Item 1A - Risk Factors

In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are some of the important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. These risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business. The descriptions below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are presently unknown to us may also impair our business operations, financial condition or results. If any of the risks and uncertainties below or other risks were to occur, our business operations, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. With respect to the tax-related consequences of acquisition, ownership and disposal of ordinary shares, you should consult with your own tax advisors. 

Risks Relating to our Business

Demand for our services could decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client’s or an industry’s financial condition or prospects, or a decline in defined benefit pension plans or the purchasing of insurance that could materially adversely affect our results of operations.

We can give no assurance that the demand for our services will grow or that we will compete successfully with our existing competitors, new competitors or our clients’ internal capabilities. Client demand for our services may change based on the clients’ needs and financial conditions.

Our results of operations are affected directly by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve. Economic slowdowns in some markets have caused and may continue to cause reduction in discretionary spending by our clients, result in longer client payment terms, an increase in late payments by clients and an increase in uncollectible accounts receivable, each of which may reduce the demand for our services, increase price competition and adversely impact our growth, profit margins and liquidity. If our clients enter bankruptcy or liquidate their operations (which has already occurred with respect to some of our current clients), our revenues could be materially adversely affected.

While it is difficult to predict the consequences of any further deterioration in global economic conditions on our business, any significant reduction or delay by our clients in purchasing our services or insurance or making payment of premiums could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the potential for a significant insurer to fail, be downgraded or withdraw from writing certain lines of insurance coverages that we offer our clients could negatively impact overall capacity in the industry, which could then reduce the placement of certain lines and types of insurance and reduce our revenues and profitability. The potential for an insurer to fail or be downgraded could also result in errors and omissions claims by clients.

In addition, the demand for many of our core benefit services, including compliance-related services, is affected by government regulation and taxation of employee benefit plans. Significant changes in tax or social welfare policy or other regulations could lead some employers to discontinue their employee benefit plans, including defined benefit pension plans, thereby reducing the demand for our services. A simplification of regulations or tax policy also could reduce the need for our services.

We could be subject to claims arising from our work, as well as government inquiries and investigations, which could materially adversely affect our reputation, business and financial condition.

We depend in large part on our relationships with clients and our reputation for high-quality services to secure future engagements. Clients that become dissatisfied with our services may terminate their business relationships with us, and clients and third parties that claim they suffered damages caused by our services may bring lawsuits against us. We are subject to various actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the provision of our services or the placement of insurance and reinsurance in the ordinary course of business. Because we often assist our clients with matters, including actuarial services and the placement of insurance coverage and the handling of related claims, involving substantial amounts of money, errors and omissions claims against us may arise that allege our potential liability for all or part of the substantial amounts in question. The nature of our work, particularly our actuarial services, necessarily involves the use of assumptions and the preparation of estimates relating to future and contingent events, the actual outcome of which we cannot know in advance. Our actuarial and brokerage services also rely on substantial amounts of data provided by clients, the accuracy and quality of which we cannot ensure. In addition, we could make computational, software programming or data management errors in connection with the services we provide to clients.

Clients may seek to hold us responsible for alleged errors or omissions related to any of the brokerage advice and services we provide, including when claims they submit to their insurance carriers are disputed or denied. For example, clients may make:

18
Risk factors

•Claims that appropriate and necessary coverage was not obtained, leaving clients without insurance coverage for some or all of its losses; 

•Claims that misrepresentations were made regarding the scope of coverage provided by their insurance policies; and

•Claims that notice of a claim was not timely made to all involved carriers resulting in a limitation or denial of coverage based on late notice.

Given that many of our clients have very high insurance policy limits to cover all of their risks, alleged errors and omissions claims against us arising from disputed or denied claims are often significant. Therefore, our exposure to liability on any particular engagement is often substantially greater than the revenue that the engagement generates for us. Moreover, in a number of markets and in various circumstances, our brokerage terms of business do not limit the maximum liability to which we may be exposed for claims involving alleged errors or omissions; and as such, we do not have limited liability for the work we provide to the associated clients.

Clients may seek to hold us responsible for the financial consequences of variances between assumptions and estimates and actual outcomes or for errors. For example, clients may make:

•Claims that actuarial assumptions were unreasonable or that there were computational errors leading to pension plan underfunding or under-reserving for insurance claim liabilities;

•Claims of failure to review adequately or detect deficiencies in data, which could lead to an underestimation of pension plan or insurance claim liabilities; and

•Claims that employee benefit plan documents were misinterpreted or plan amendments were faulty, leading to unintended plan benefits or overpayments to beneficiaries.

Given that we frequently work with large pension funds and insurance companies, relatively small percentage errors or variances can create significant financial variances and result in significant claims for unintended or unfunded liabilities. The risks from such variances or errors could be aggravated in an environment of declining pension fund asset values and insurance company capital levels. In almost all cases, our exposure to liability with respect to a particular engagement is substantially greater than the revenue opportunity that the engagement generates for us.

In the case of liability for pension plan actuarial errors, a client’s claims might focus on the client’s alleged reliance that actuarial assumptions were reasonable and, based on such reliance, the client made benefit commitments the client may later claim are not affordable or funding decisions that result in plan underfunding if and when actual outcomes vary from actuarial assumptions.

We are also subject to actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings outside of errors and omissions claims. An example of material claims for which we are subject that are outside of the error and omissions claims context relate to those arising out of the collapse of The Stanford Financial Group, for which we acted as brokers of record on certain lines of insurance. We could be required to increase our financial reserve on the Stanford litigation, which could cause a material adverse effect on our financial statements or reputation.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be ascertained and liabilities in indeterminate amounts may be imposed on us. It is thus possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters. In addition, these matters continue to divert management and personnel resources away from operating our business. Even if we do not experience significant monetary costs, there may also be adverse publicity associated with these matters that could result in reputational harm to the insurance brokerage industry in general or to us in particular that may adversely affect our business, client or employee relationships.

Lawsuits arising out of any of our services could adversely affect our financial performance and financial condition and could result in increased insurance costs or a reduction in the amount of available insurance coverage. In addition to defense costs and liability exposure, which may be significant, claims may produce negative publicity that could hurt our reputation and business and could require substantial amounts of management attention, which could affect management’s focus on operations.

Finally, we may be subject to inquiries and investigations by federal, state or other governmental agencies regarding aspects of our clients’ businesses or our own businesses, especially regulated businesses such as our broker-dealer and investment advisory services. Such inquiries or investigations may consume significant management time and result in regulatory 

19
Willis Towers Watson plc

sanctions, fines or other actions as well as significant legal fees, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and liquidity.

Our compliance systems and controls cannot guarantee that we comply with all applicable federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business.

Our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions around the world in which we operate. In addition, we own an interest in a number of associates where we do not exercise management control. Over the last few years, regulators across the world are increasingly seeking to regulate brokers who operate in their jurisdictions. The foreign and U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our operations are complex, continually evolving and may increase the costs of regulatory compliance, limit or restrict the products or services we sell or subject our business to the possibility of regulatory actions or proceedings. These laws and regulations include insurance and financial industry regulations, economic and trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as Cuba, Iran, Russia, Sudan and Syria, anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and similar local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act in the U.S., as well as import and export restrictions and laws and regulations related to data privacy and cyber security.

In most jurisdictions, governmental and regulatory authorities have the ability to interpret and amend these laws and regulations and impose penalties for non-compliance, including sanctions, civil remedies, monetary fines, injunctions, revocation of licenses or approvals, suspension of individuals, limitations on business activities or redress to clients. While we believe that we have substantially increased our focus on the geographic breadth of regulations to which we are subject, maintain good relationships with our key regulators and our current systems and controls are adequate, we cannot assure that such systems and controls will prevent any violations of any applicable laws and regulations. In particular, given the challenges of integrating operations, many of which are de-centralized, we cannot assure that our newly-acquired entities’ business systems and controls have prevented or will prevent any and all violations of applicable laws or regulations.

Data security breaches or improper disclosure of confidential company or personal data could result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.

We depend on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our alliance partners and clients. Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards, as well as improper or inadvertent staff behavior could expose confidential company and personal data systems to security breaches. Additionally, one of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our clients’ confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of their customers and/or employees. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs.

With respect to our commercial arrangements with third-party vendors, we have processes designed to require third-party IT outsourcing, offsite storage and other vendors to agree to maintain certain standards with respect to the storage, protection and transfer of confidential, personal and proprietary information. However, we remain at risk of a data breach due to the intentional or unintentional non-compliance by a vendor’s employee or agent, the breakdown of a vendor’s data protection processes, or a cyber-attack on a vendor’s information systems.

We are subject to numerous U.S. and foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations designed to protect this information, such as the European Union Directive on Data Protection and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other individually identifiable information. If any person, including any of our colleagues, fails to comply with, disregards or intentionally breaches our established controls with respect to such data or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates that data, we could be subject to monetary damages, fines or criminal prosecution. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or employee data, whether through systems failure, accident, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Similarly, unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our clients, whether by our colleagues or third parties, could result in significant additional expenses (including expenses relating to notification of data security breaches and costs of credit monitoring services), negative publicity, legal liability and damage to our reputation, as well as require substantial resources and effort of management, thereby diverting management’s focus and resources from business operations.

We have experienced a number of data incidents, resulting from human error as well as attempts at unauthorized access to our systems. We maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this 

20
Risk factors

information. However, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of data security breaches, improper access to or disclosure of confidential company or personally identifiable information. Our technology may fail to adequately secure the private information we hold and protect it from theft, computer viruses, hackers or inadvertent loss. In such circumstances, we may be held liable to our clients, which could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further, data privacy, information security, identity theft, and related computer and internet issues are matters of growing public concern and are subject to frequently changing rules and regulations. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements and customer expectations in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation.

Interruption to or loss of our information processing capabilities or failure to effectively maintain and upgrade our information processing hardware or systems could cause material financial loss, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.

Our business depends significantly on effective information systems. Our capacity to service our clients relies on effective storage, retrieval, processing and management of information. Our information systems also rely on the commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems, develop and create new systems and products in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology or evolving industry and regulatory standards and to be at the forefront of a range of technology relevant to our business.

If the data we rely on to run our business were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effective and efficient systems (including through a telecommunications failure, failure to replace or update redundant or obsolete computer hardware, applications or software systems or if we experience other disruptions), this could result in material financial loss, regulatory action, reputational harm or legal liability.

Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.

Should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. In such an event, we could experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations.

In particular, our ability to recover from any disaster or other business continuity problem will depend on our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. We could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster.

We will continue to regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our business continuity plans. However, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability.

Damage to our reputation could damage our businesses.

Maintaining a positive reputation is critical to our ability to attract and maintain relationships with clients and colleagues. Damage to our reputation could therefore cause significant harm to our business and prospects. Harm to our reputation can arise from numerous sources, including, among others, employee misconduct, litigation or regulatory action, failure to deliver minimum standards of service and quality, compliance failures and unethical behavior. Negative publicity, whether or not true, may also result in harm to our prospects.

We could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. Identifying conflicts of interest may prove particularly difficult in the near-term while we bring together and integrate Legacy Willis, Legacy Towers Watson and Gras Savoye. In addition, we may encounter more conflicts of interest than anticipated in connection with the Merger or the Gras Savoye acquisition and we may not be able to adequately address such conflicts of interest. 

21
Willis Towers Watson plc

The failure or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions. There can be no assurance that conflicts of interest will not arise in the future that could cause material harm to us.

Our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational changes could impact our business results.

We have recently undergone several significant business and organizational changes, including the Merger, the acquisitions of Gras Savoye, and Miller Insurance Services, LLP, and our ongoing multi-year operational improvement program. In addition, as we have experienced, competition to retain or recruit talent is heightened in a challenging rate environment or during a time when we are experiencing significant change. Effectively managing these organizational changes is critical to retaining talent, servicing clients and our business success overall. The failure to effectively manage such risks could adversely impact our business or financial results.

We do not control the premiums on which our commissions are based, and volatility or declines in premiums may seriously undermine our profitability.

We derive significant revenues from commissions for brokerage services and do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Commission levels generally follow the same trend as premium levels, as they are a percentage of the premiums paid by the insureds. Fluctuations in the premiums charged by the insurance carriers can therefore have a direct and potentially material impact on our results of operations. Due to the cyclical nature of the insurance market and the impact of other market conditions on insurance premiums, commission levels may vary widely between accounting periods. A period of low or declining premium rates, generally known as a ‘soft’ or ‘softening’ market, generally leads to downward pressure on commission revenues and can have a material adverse impact on our commission revenues and operating margin. A ‘hard’ or ‘firming’ market, during which premium rates rise, generally has a favorable impact on our commission revenues and operating margin. Rates, however, vary by geography, industry and client segment. We have been and continue to be negatively impacted by soft market conditions across certain sectors and geographic regions. In addition, insurance carriers may seek to reduce their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to insurance agents or brokers such as ourselves. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly undermine our profitability.

We could incur substantial losses, including with respect to our own cash and fiduciary cash held on behalf of insurance companies and clients, if one of the financial institutions we use in our operations failed.

We maintain significant cash balances at various U.S. depository institutions that are significantly in excess of the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. We also maintain significant cash balances in foreign financial institutions. A significant portion of this cash is fiduciary cash held on behalf of insurance companies or clients. If one or more of the institutions in which we maintain significant cash balances were to fail, our ability to access these funds might be temporarily or permanently limited, and we could face a material liquidity problem and potentially material financial losses. We would also be liable to claims made by the insurance companies or our clients regarding the fiduciary cash held on their behalf.

Accepting market derived income (MDI) may cause regulatory or other scrutiny, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business.

Insurance intermediaries have traditionally been remunerated by commission or fees paid by clients. Intermediaries also obtain revenue from insurance carriers. This is commonly known as market derived income or ‘MDI’. MDI takes a variety of forms, including volume- or profit-based contingent commissions, facilities administration charges, business development agreements, and fees for providing certain data to carriers.

MDI creates various risks. Intermediaries have a duty to act in the best interests of their clients and payments from carriers can incentivize intermediaries to put carriers’ interests ahead of their clients. Accordingly, MDI may be subject to scrutiny by various regulators under conflict of interest, anti-trust, unfair competition, and anti-bribery laws and regulations. While accepting MDI is a lawful and acceptable business practice, and while we have established systems and controls to manage these risks, we cannot predict whether our position will result in regulatory or other scrutiny.

Investment in innovative product offerings may fail to yield sufficient return to cover their investment.

From time to time, we may enter new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There can be substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, including the investment of significant time and resources, the possibility that these efforts will be unprofitable, and the risk of additional liabilities associated with these efforts. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and new products 

22
Risk factors

and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results for operations. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business. In addition, we can provide no assurance that the entry into new lines of business or development of new products and services will be successful.

We are continually developing and investing in new and innovative offerings that we believe will address needs that we identify in the market. Nevertheless, the ability of these efforts to produce meaningful value is dependent on a number of other factors, some of which are outside of our control. 

The ongoing uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets related to the U.S. budget deficit, the UK’s potential exit from the European Union, the European sovereign debt crisis and the state of the U.S. economic recovery may adversely affect the Company’s operating results.

Global financial markets continue to experience disruptions, including increased volatility, and diminished liquidity and credit availability. In particular, developments in Europe have created uncertainty with respect to the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. This debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the Euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our European clients and reducing the translation of Euro based revenues into U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2015, approximately 11% of Legacy Willis revenues were derived from countries which use the Euro as their primary currency. In the event that one or more countries were to replace the Euro with their legacy currency, then the Company’s sales in and to such countries, or Europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates were established. In addition, the European crisis is contributing to instability in global credit markets. If global economic and market conditions, or economic and financial market conditions in Europe, the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, our clients may respond by suspending, delaying or reducing their expenditures, which may adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Finally, the UK may seek to leave the European Union (the ‘EU’) and adopt an as yet unknown relationship with the EU. If this occurred, it could affect economic or market conditions in all of Europe and beyond and could contribute to instability in global credit markets. Any such exit by the UK from the EU could have a material adverse affect on us and our operations. 

The loss of key colleagues could damage or result in the loss of client relationships and could result in such colleagues competing against us.

Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, including key managers and colleagues. In addition, our success largely depends upon our colleagues’ abilities to generate business and provide quality services. In particular, our colleagues’ business relationships with our clients are a critical element of obtaining and maintaining client engagements. If we lose colleagues who manage substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise or if we are unable to successfully attract new talent, it could materially adversely affect our ability to secure and complete engagements, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. In addition, we have experienced intense competition for certain types of colleagues in the past, and if any of our key colleagues were to join a competitor or form a competing company or we are unable to continue to recruit key colleagues, existing and potential clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of Willis Towers Watson’s services.

Over time, the trend of employers shifting from defined benefit plans to defined contribution plans could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Our retirement consulting and actuarial business comprises a substantial portion of our revenue and profit. We provide clients with actuarial and consulting services relating to both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. Defined benefit pension plans generally require more actuarial services than defined contribution plans because defined benefit plans typically involve large asset pools, complex calculations to determine employer costs, funding requirements and sophisticated analysis to match liabilities and assets over long periods of time. If organizations shift to defined contribution plans more rapidly than we anticipate, or if we are unable to otherwise compensate for the decline in our business that results from employers moving away from defined benefit plans, our business operations and related results of operations will be materially adversely affected.

Our significant non-U.S. operations, particularly our London market operations, expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various other risks that could impact our business.

A significant portion of our operations is conducted outside the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into pounds sterling or dollars or remittance of dividends 

23
Willis Towers Watson plc

and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; and the requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws.

We report our operating results and financial condition in U.S. dollars. Our U.S. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in U.S. dollars. In our London market operations, however, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in pounds sterling. Outside the United States and our London market operations, we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in the local currency. The table below gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency for Legacy Willis operations in 2015. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. Furthermore, the mismatch between pounds sterling revenues and expenses, together with any net sterling balance sheet position we hold in our U.S. dollar denominated London market operations, creates an exchange exposure.

For example, as the pound sterling strengthens, the U.S. dollars required to be translated into pounds sterling to cover the net sterling expenses increase, which then causes our results to be negatively impacted. However, any net sterling asset we are holding will be more valuable when translated into U.S. dollars. Given these facts, the strength of the pound sterling relative to the U.S. dollar has in the past had a material negative impact on our reported results. This risk could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flow and results of operations in the future. 

In conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, cultural, market, nationalization, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.

In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to political, economic, legal, market, nationalization, operational and other risks. Our businesses and operations continue to expand into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets. The possible effects of economic and financial disruptions throughout the world could have an adverse impact on our businesses. These risks include:

•the general economic and political conditions in foreign countries; 

•the imposition of controls or limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;

•the imposition of sanctions by both the United States and foreign governments;

•imposition of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments from subsidiaries;

•imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments;

•the price of commodities, such as oil;

•fluctuations in our tax rate;

•difficulties in controlling operations and monitoring employees in geographically dispersed and culturally diverse locations;

•the practical challenge and costs of complying, or monitoring compliance, with a wide variety of foreign laws (some of which are evolving or not as well-developed as the laws of the U.S. or UK or which may conflict with U.S. or other sources of law), laws and regulations applicable to insurance brokers and other business operations abroad (in more than 120 countries including many countries in Africa), including laws, rules and regulations relating to the conduct of business, trade sanctions laws administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, the EU, the UK and the UN, and the requirements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as well as other anti-bribery and corruption rules and requirements in all of the countries in which we operate; and

•the practical challenge and costs of complying with local regulation for our operating subsidiaries across the globe.

24
Risk factors

Our clients could terminate or reduce our services at any time, which could decrease associate utilization, adversely impacting our profitability and results of operations.

For consulting, advisory and similar engagements, our clients generally are able to terminate or reduce our engagements at any time. If a client reduces the scope of, or terminates the use of, our services with little or no notice, our associate utilization will decline. In such cases, we will need to rapidly re-deploy our colleagues to other engagements (if possible) in order to minimize the potential negative impact on our financial performance. In addition, because a sizeable portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature, our associate utilization will depend on our ability to continually secure additional engagements.

Our quarterly revenues could fluctuate while our expenses are relatively fixed.

Quarterly variations in our revenues and results of operations have occurred in the past and could occur as a result of a number of factors, such as:

•the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter;

•the seasonality of certain types of services. For example, our Retirement revenues typically are more heavily weighted toward the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year;

•the number of business days in a quarter;

•colleague hiring and utilization rates;

•clients’ ability to terminate engagements without penalty;

•the size and scope of assignments; and

•general economic conditions.

A sizeable portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed, encompassing the majority of administrative, occupancy, communications and other expenses, depreciation and amortization, and salaries and employee benefits excluding fiscal year-end incentive bonuses. Therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments or our inability to forecast demand can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results and could result in losses and volatility in our stock price.

Improper management of our engagements could hurt our financial results.

Most of our consulting services contracts are structured on a fixed-fee basis or a time-and-expense basis. The profitability of our fixed-fee engagements depends on our ability to correctly estimate the costs and timing required for completion of the engagements and our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency. The profitability of the engagements that are priced on a time-and-expense basis depends on our ability to maintain competitive billing rates, as well as our ability to control our costs. If we do not correctly estimate the costs and manage the performance of our engagements, we may incur losses on individual engagements and experience lower profit margins and, as a result, our overall financial results could be materially adversely affected.

Our business will be negatively affected if we are not able to anticipate and keep pace with rapid changes in government regulations or if government regulations decrease the need for our services or increase our costs.

A material portion of our revenue is affected by statutory changes. Many areas in which we provide services are the subject of government regulation, which is constantly evolving. For example, our activities in connection with insurance brokerage services are subject to regulation and supervision by national, state or other authorities. Insurance laws in the markets in which we operate are often complex and generally grant broad discretion to supervisory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. That supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling and investment of client funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Our continuing ability to provide insurance brokerage in the markets in which we currently operate is dependent upon our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these locations. 

Changes in government and accounting regulations in the United States and the United Kingdom, two of our principal geographic markets, affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human capital programs, including recent changes in regulations relating to health care (such as medical plans), defined contribution plans (such as 401(k) plans), defined benefit plans (such as pension plans) or executive compensation, may materially adversely affect the demand for, or the profitability of, 

25
Willis Towers Watson plc

our services. In addition, more restrictive rules or interpretations of the federal Centers for Medicare Services marketing rules, or judicial decisions that restrict or otherwise change existing provisions of U.S. healthcare regulation, could have a material adverse impact on our Exchange Solutions business. Further, changes to insurance regulatory schemes, or our failure to keep pace with such changes, could negatively affect demand for services in our Investment, Risk and Reinsurance business segment. For example, our continuing ability to provide investment advisory services depends on compliance with the rules and regulations in each of these jurisdictions. Any failure to comply with these regulations could lead to disciplinary action, including compensating clients for loss, the imposition of fines or the revocation of the authorization to operate as well as damage to our reputation.

In addition, we have significant operations throughout the world, which further subject us to applicable laws and regulations of countries outside the United States and the United Kingdom. Changes in legislation or regulations and actions by regulators in particular countries, including changes in administration and enforcement policies, could require operational improvements or modifications, which may result in higher costs or hinder our ability to operate our business in those countries.

If we are unable to adapt our services to applicable laws and regulations, our ability to provide effective services in these areas will be substantially diminished.

Our business could be negatively affected by recently enacted or future legislative or regulatory activity concerning compensation consultants.

Recent legislative and regulatory activity in the United States has focused on the independence of compensation consultants retained to provide advice to compensation committees of publicly traded companies. In 2009, the SEC published final rules, which became effective in 2010, with respect to issuer disclosures on compensation consultants. Among other requirements, the rules require disclosure of fees paid to compensation consultants as well as a description of any additional services provided to the issuer by the compensation consultant and its affiliates and the aggregate fees paid for such services. Due in part to this regulation and continued legislative activity, some clients of Legacy Towers Watson decided to terminate their relationships with the respective company (either with respect to compensation consulting services or with respect to other consulting services) to avoid perceived or potential conflicts of interest.

In addition, in 2010, the U.S. President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which requires the SEC to issue rules directing national securities exchanges and associations to require the compensation committee of a listed company to consider the independence of an advisor when selecting a compensation consultant. The SEC was also required to identify factors affecting independence.

The final rules and NASDAQ listing standards do not require that the selected compensation consultant be independent, only that the compensation committee considers independence before selecting a compensation consultant. However, if companies’ compensation committees elect to engage compensation consultants that do not perform any other services for the company, then this could cause additional clients to terminate their relationships with us (either with respect to compensation consulting services or with respect to other consulting services) to avoid perceived or potential conflicts of interest. The Merger could further exacerbate this problem for us as the combined company provides other (non-executive compensation) services to more clients and provides a greater aggregate amount of services to such clients. If this happens, the future termination of such relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In addition, due in part to such regulation and continued legislative activity, some former Legacy Towers Watson consultants terminated their relationships with us, and many have begun to compete with us or have indicated that they intend to compete with us. Such talent migration, and any future such talent migration, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Competition could result in loss of our market share and reduced profitability.

The markets for our principal services are highly competitive. Our competitors include other insurance brokerage, human capital and risk management consulting and actuarial firms, as well as the human capital and risk management divisions of diversified professional services, insurance, brokerage and accounting firms and specialist, regional and local firms.

Competition for business is intense in all of our business lines and in every insurance market, and Marsh & McLennan and Aon, for examples, have greater market share in certain lines of business than we do. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us, which could enhance their ability to finance acquisitions, fund internal growth and respond more quickly to professional and technological changes. Some competitors have or may develop a lower cost structure, or have more tax-efficient operations. New competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge, creating additional 

26
Risk factors

competition and gaining significant market share, resulting in a loss of business for us and a corresponding decline in revenues and profit margin. In order to respond to increased competition and pricing pressure, we may have to lower our prices, which would also have an adverse effect on our revenues and profit margin.

The human capital and risk management consulting industries are highly competitive. We face strong competition from several sources. Our principal competitors in the pension consulting industry are Mercer HR Consulting (a Marsh & McLennan company) and Aon Hewitt Consulting (an Aon company). Beyond these large players, the global HR consulting industry is highly fragmented. 

Our competitors in the insurance consulting and software industry include Milliman, Oliver Wyman (a Marsh & McLennan company), the big four accounting firms and SunGard. Aon Hewitt, Buck Consultants (a Xerox Company), Connextions (a United Healthcare company) and Mercer (a Marsh & McLennan company) are among our competitors in the insurance exchange industry. With the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, we also compete with the public exchanges run by the U.S. federal and state governments. With the acquisition of Acclaris, we now compete with providers of account-based health plans and consumer-directed benefits such as WageWorks and HealthEquity.

Consolidation in the industries that we serve could materially adversely affect our business.

Companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, we may experience a decrease in the amount of services we perform for these clients. If one of our clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. The increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry consolidation could materially adversely affect our revenues and profits.

Our growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to make acquisitions, and if we have difficulty in acquiring, overpay for, or are unable to acquire other businesses, our business may be materially adversely affected.

Our growth depends in part on our ability to make acquisitions. We may not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates or consummating acquisitions on terms acceptable or favorable to us, on the proposed timetables, or at all. We also face additional risks related to acquisitions, including that we could overpay for acquired businesses and that any acquired business could significantly underperform relative to our expectations. If we are unable to identify and successfully make acquisitions, our business could be materially adversely affected.

We face risks when we acquire or divest businesses, and may have difficulty integrating or managing acquired businesses, or with effecting internal reorganizations, which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.

We may acquire other companies or divest certain businesses in the future. We cannot be certain that our acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or that our acquisitions or divestitures will otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. Acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, and acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. In addition, if the operating performance of an acquired business deteriorates significantly, we may need to write down the value of the goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet.

We may be unable to effectively integrate an acquired business into our organization, and may not succeed in managing such acquired businesses or the larger company that results from such acquisitions. The process of integration of an acquired business may subject us to a number of risks, including:

•Diversion of management attention;

•Amortization of intangible assets, adversely affecting our reported results of operations;

•Inability to retain the management, key personnel and other employees of the acquired business;

•Inability to establish uniform standards, controls, systems, procedures and policies;

•Inability to retain the acquired company’s clients;

27
Willis Towers Watson plc

•Exposure to legal claims for activities of the acquired business prior to acquisition; and

•Incurrence of additional expenses in connection with the integration process.

We may also face similar challenges in effecting internal reorganizations. If acquisitions or internal reorganizations are not successfully integrated, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, as well as our professional reputation.

We also own an interest in a number of associates where we do not exercise management control and we are therefore limited in our ability to direct or manage the business to realize the anticipated benefits that we can achieve if we had full ownership.

We advise or act on behalf of clients regarding investments whose results are not guaranteed, and clients that experience investment return shortfalls may assert claims against us.

We provide advice on both asset allocation and selection of investment managers. For some clients, we are responsible for making decisions on both these matters, or we may serve in a fiduciary capacity. Asset classes may experience poor absolute performance, and investment managers may underperform their benchmarks; in both cases the investment return shortfall can be significant. Clients experiencing this underperformance may assert claims against us, and such claims may be for significant amounts. Defending against these claims can involve potentially significant costs, including legal defense costs. Our ability to limit our potential liability may be limited in certain jurisdictions or in connection with claims involving breaches of fiduciary duties or other alleged errors or omissions.

Our investment activities may require specialized operational competencies, and if we fail to properly execute our role in cash and investment management, our clients or third parties may assert claims against us.

For certain clients, we are responsible for some portions of cash and investment management, including rebalancing of investment portfolios and guidance to third parties on structure of derivatives and securities transactions. Our failure to properly execute our role can cause monetary damage to our clients or such third parties for which we might be found liable, and such claims may be for significant amounts. Defending against these claims can involve potentially significant costs, including legal defense costs. Our ability to limit our potential liability may be constrained in certain jurisdictions.

New product or service offerings may carry greater risk of liability and regulatory action than existing or historical product or service offerings.

We continue to grow the business of providing products and services to institutional investors, financial services companies and other clients. The risk of claims from these lines of business and related products and services may be greater than from our core businesses, and such claims may be for significant amounts. For example, we may assist a pension plan to hedge its exposure to changes in interest rates. If the hedge does not perform as expected, we could be exposed to claims. Contractual provisions intended to mitigate risk may not be enforceable. Other examples of recently implemented ventures that may increase our exposure to client and regulator claims include pooled investment solutions in various jurisdictions in our Investment line of business; new licensed work and expansion into new jurisdictions in our Health and Group Benefits line of business; and in our Retirement line of business, establishing and servicing structures to facilitate the funding of our clients’ employee benefit plans. In addition, with respect to some of these new ventures, we may enter into arrangements that need to be examined to determine whether they fall under the variable interest entity (VIE) accounting guidance. The structure of such arrangements could require us to consolidate assets or liabilities on which we do not have risk of loss.

Our business performance and growth plans could be negatively affected if we are not able to effectively apply technology to drive value for our clients through technology-based solutions or gain internal efficiencies through the effective application of technology and related tools.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our ideas may not be accepted in the marketplace. Additionally, the effort to gain technological expertise and develop new technologies in our business requires us to incur significant cost. Our competitors are seeking to develop competing technologies, and their success in this space may impact our ability to differentiate our services to our clients through the use of unique technological solutions. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly or effectively as our competitors or if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and complete client engagements.

28
Risk factors

Limited protection of our intellectual property could harm our business, and we face the risk that our services or products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others.

We cannot guarantee that trade secret, trademark and copyright law protections are adequate to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property (including our software, which may become an increasingly important part of our business). Existing laws of some countries in which we provide services or products may offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. Redressing infringements may consume significant management time and financial resources. Also, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take the necessary steps to enforce our rights, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot be sure that our services and products, or the products of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us or our clients. These claims may harm our reputation, result in financial liability and prevent us from offering some services or products.

Insurance may become more difficult or expensive to obtain.

The availability, terms and price of insurance are subject to many variables, including general insurance market conditions, loss experience in related industries and in the actuarial and benefits consulting industry, and the specific claims experience of an individual firm. We are subject to various regulatory requirements relating to insurance as well as client requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance at cost-effective rates or with reasonable retentions. Increases in the cost of insurance could affect our profitability and the unavailability of insurance to cover certain risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our ability to transact business in certain geographic areas, particularly in any specific period.

We have material pension liabilities that can fluctuate significantly.

We have material pension liabilities, some of which represented unfunded and underfunded pension and postretirement liabilities. Movements in the interest rate environment, inflation or changes in other assumptions that are used for the estimates of our benefit obligations and other factors could have a material effect on the level of liabilities in these plans at any given time. These pension plans have minimum funding requirements that may require material amounts of periodic additional funding. The need to make additional cash contributions may reduce our financial flexibility and increase liquidity risk by reducing the cash available to meet our other obligations, including the payment obligations under our credit facilities and other long-term debt, or other needs of our business.

Our Exchange Solutions business may be harmed if we lose our relationships with insurance carriers, fail to maintain good relationships with insurance carriers, become dependent upon a limited number of insurance carriers or fail to develop new carrier relationships.

Our Exchange Solutions business typically enters into contractual agency relationships with insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. In many cases, insurance carriers also have the ability to amend the terms of our agreements unilaterally on short notice. Insurance carriers may be unwilling to allow us to sell their existing or new health insurance plans or may amend our agreements with them, for a variety of reasons, including for competitive or regulatory reasons or because of a reluctance to distribute their products through our exchange platform. Insurance carriers may decide to rely on their own internal distribution channels, including traditional in-house agents, carrier websites or other sales channels, or to market their own plans, and, in turn, could limit or prohibit us from marketing their plans. For example, in August 2011, one of Exchange Solutions’ largest insurance carrier partners discontinued the indirect distribution of Medicare supplement policies through all of their distribution vendors. As a result, our new Medicare supplement enrollments shifted to other insurance carriers that pay us lower commission rates on average. Insurance carriers may also choose to exclude us from their most profitable or popular plans or may determine not to distribute insurance plans in individual markets in certain geographies or altogether. Additionally, if one of the insurance carriers with which we are associated violates the law or comes under scrutiny by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (‘CMS’), CMS may impose sanctions on such carriers, resulting in a loss of supply of insurance plans that we are able to sell. The termination or amendment of our relationship with an insurance carrier could reduce the variety of health insurance plans we offer. We also could lose a source of, or be paid reduced commissions for, future sales and could lose renewal commissions for past sales. Our business could also be harmed if we fail to develop new carrier relationships or are unable to offer customers a wide variety of health insurance plans.

The private health insurance industry in the United States has experienced a substantial amount of consolidation over the past several years, resulting in a decrease in the number of insurance carriers. In the future, it may become necessary for us to offer insurance plans from a reduced number of insurance carriers or to derive a greater portion of our revenue from a more 

29
Willis Towers Watson plc

concentrated number of carriers as our business and the health insurance industry evolve. For example, in the period from July 1, 2014 to June 30, 2015, the top five carriers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 72% of our commission revenue in our Retiree & Access Exchanges business. Each of these insurance carriers may terminate our agreements with them, and, in some cases, as a result of the termination we may lose our right to receive future commissions for policies we have sold. Should our dependence on a smaller number of insurance carriers increase, whether as a result of the termination of carrier relationships, further insurance carrier consolidation or otherwise, we may become more vulnerable to adverse changes in our relationships with our carriers, particularly in states where we offer health insurance plans from a relatively small number of carriers or where a small number of insurance carriers dominate the market. The termination, amendment or consolidation of our relationship with our insurance carriers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Changes and developments in the health insurance system in the United States could harm our Exchange Solutions business.

In 2010, the Federal government enacted significant reforms to healthcare legislation through the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (‘PPACA’), and the Healthcare and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, (‘HCERA’), which we refer to collectively as (‘Healthcare Reform’). Our Exchange Solutions business depends upon the private sector of the United States insurance system, its role in financing health care delivery, and insurance carriers’ use of, and payment of commissions to, agents, brokers and other organizations to market and sell individual and family health insurance plans. Healthcare Reform contains provisions that have changed and will continue to change the industry in which we operate in substantial ways.

Many aspects of Healthcare Reform are not yet in effect or have only recently gone into effect. In addition, state governments have adopted, and will continue to adopt, changes to their existing laws and regulations in light of Healthcare Reform and related regulations. Future postponements of or changes to Healthcare Reform may not be beneficial to us.

Certain key members of Congress have expressed a desire to withhold the funding necessary to implement Healthcare Reform as well as the desire to replace or amend all or a portion of Healthcare Reform. Any partial or complete repeal or amendment or implementation difficulties, or uncertainty regarding such events, could increase our costs of compliance, prevent or delay future adoption of our exchange platform, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. The implementation of Healthcare Reform could have negative effects on us, including:

•Increase our competition;

•Reduce or eliminate the need for health insurance agents and brokers or demand for the health insurance that we sell;

•Decrease the number of types of health insurance plans that we sell, as well as the number of insurance carriers offering such plans;

•Cause insurance carriers to change the benefits and/or premiums for the plans they sell; 

•Cause insurance carriers to reduce the amount they pay for our services or change our relationship with them in other ways; or

•Materially restrict our call center operations.

Any of these effects could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, the manner in which the Federal government and the states implement health insurance exchanges and the process for receiving subsidies and cost-sharing credits could substantially increase our competition and member turnover and substantially reduce the number of individuals who purchase insurance through us. Various aspects of Healthcare Reform could cause insurance carriers to limit the type of health insurance plans we are able to sell and the geographies in which we are able to sell them. In addition, the U.S. Congress has been charged with finding spending cuts, and such cuts are expected to include Medicare. If cuts are made to Medicare, there may be substantial changes in the types of health insurance plans we are able to sell. Changes in the law could also cause insurance carriers to exit the business of selling insurance plans in a particular jurisdiction, to eliminate certain categories of products or to attempt to move members into new plans for which we receive lower commissions. If insurance carriers decide to limit our ability to sell their plans or determine not to sell individual health insurance plans altogether, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially harmed.

30
Risk factors

Our Exchange Solutions’ business may not grow as quickly as expected or its growth may occur faster than expected and we may not have the resources required to support it.

If clients do not select private healthcare exchanges, do not select our healthcare exchange business or if clients move to exchanges more slowly than we have anticipated, then our Exchange Solutions’ business and operating results may be materially adversely affected. If, conversely, revenue from our Exchange Solutions’ business does grow significantly, there is the risk that we do not have the resources required to support such revenue growth. 

Our Consumer-Directed Accounts business is dependent upon the availability of tax-advantaged consumer-directed benefits to employers and employees and any diminution in, elimination of, or change in the availability of these benefits would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects.

Our Consumer-Directed Accounts business fundamentally depends on employer and employee demand for tax-advantaged Consumer-Directed Benefits, or CDBs. Any diminution in or elimination of the availability of CDBs for employees would materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. In addition, incentives for employers to offer CDBs may also be reduced or eliminated by changes in laws that result in employers no longer realizing financial gain from the implementation of these benefits. If employers cease to offer CDB programs or reduce the number of programs they offer to their employees, the results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects of our Consumer-Directed Accounts business would also be materially adversely affected.

In addition, if the payroll tax savings employers currently realize from their employees’ utilization of CDBs become reduced or unavailable, employers may be less inclined to offer these programs to their employees. If the tax savings currently realized by employee participants by utilizing CDBs were reduced or unavailable, we expect employees would correspondingly reduce or eliminate their participation in such CDB plans. Any such reduction in employer or employee incentives would materially adversely affect the results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects of our Consumer-Directed Accounts business.

If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings.

We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed, and we expect to significantly increase goodwill as a result of the Merger. We review goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. Application of the impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units and determination of fair value of each reporting unit. A significant deterioration in a key estimate or assumption or a less significant deterioration to a combination of assumptions or the sale of a part of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings.

Our outstanding debt could adversely affect our cash flows and financial flexibility.

Legacy Willis had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $3.3 billion as of December 31, 2015 and Legacy Willis’ 2015 interest expense was $142 million. Legacy Towers Watson had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $740 million as of December 31, 2015 and Legacy Towers Watson’s interest expense was $10 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2015.

Although management believes that our cash flows will be sufficient to service this debt, there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this debt could adversely affect our cash flows and this level of indebtedness may:

•require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments, to pay dividends and for general corporate purposes;

•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including if we borrow at variable interest rates, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally;

•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes or challenges relating to our business and industry; and

•put us at a competitive disadvantage against competitors who have less indebtedness or are in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources.

31
Willis Towers Watson plc

The terms of our current financings also include certain limitations. For example, the agreements relating to the debt arrangements and credit facilities contain numerous operating and financial covenants, including requirements to maintain minimum ratios of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated cash interest expense and maximum levels of consolidated funded indebtedness in relation to consolidated EBITDA, in each case subject to certain adjustments. The operating restrictions and financial covenants in our credit facilities do, and any future financing agreements may, limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities.

A failure to comply with the restrictions under our credit facilities and outstanding notes could result in a default under the financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could cause our obligations with respect to our debt to be accelerated and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all.

The maintenance and growth of our business depends on our access to capital, which will depend in large part on cash flow generated by our business and the availability of equity and debt financing. There can be no assurance that our operations will generate sufficient positive cash flow to finance all of our capital needs or that we will be able to obtain equity or debt financing on favorable terms or at all. In addition, approximately $988 million of our outstanding debt as of December 31, 2015 and an additional $400 million drawn related to the Merger will mature in 2016. We may be unable to refinance this maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us.

A downgrade to our corporate credit rating and the credit ratings of our outstanding debt may adversely affect our borrowing costs and financial flexibility and, under certain circumstances, may require us to offer to buy back some of our outstanding debt.

A downgrade in our corporate credit rating or the credit ratings of our debt would increase our borrowing costs including those under our credit facilities, and reduce our financial flexibility. In addition, certain downgrades would trigger a step-up in interest rates under the indentures for our 6.200% senior notes due 2017 and our 7.000% senior notes due 2019, which would increase our interest expense. If we need to raise capital in the future, any credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs or access to financing sources. 

In addition, under the indenture for our 4.625% senior notes due 2023 and our 6.125% senior notes due 2043, if we experience a ratings decline together with a change of control event, we would be required to offer to purchase our 4.625% senior notes due 2023 and our 6.125% senior notes due 2043 from holders unless we had previously redeemed those notes. We may not have sufficient funds available or access to funding to repurchase tendered notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. Any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event.

We rely on third parties to provide services and their failure to perform the services could harm our business.

As part of providing services to clients and managing our business, we rely on a number of third-party service providers. Our ability to perform effectively depends in part on the ability of these service providers to meet their obligations, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. The quality of our services could suffer or we could be required to incur unanticipated costs if our third-party service providers do not perform as expected or their services are disrupted. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries.

The Company is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to shareholders and for corporate expenses. Legal and regulatory restrictions, foreign exchange controls, as well as operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from these subsidiaries. For example, Willis Limited, our UK brokerage subsidiary regulated by the FCA, is currently required to maintain $126 million in unencumbered and available funds, of which at least $79 million must be in cash, for regulatory purposes. In the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and other payments to the Company, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on common stock.

32
Risk factors

Further, the Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the U.S. Since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are made from the U.S., it is important to be able to access cash generated outside the U.S. Funds from the Company’s operating subsidiaries outside of the U.S. are periodically repatriated to the U.S. via shareholder distributions and repayment of intercompany financing. A number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited to, foreign exchange rates and tax-related costs.

In the event we are unable to generate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate.

Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and results of operations.

We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions including those relating to revenue recognition, valuation of billed and unbilled receivables from clients, discretionary compensation, incurred but not reported liabilities, restructuring, pensions, goodwill and other intangible assets, contingencies, share-based payments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on specific circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates, and changes in accounting standards could have an adverse impact on our future financial position and results of operations.

Our accounting for our long-term outsourcing contracts requires using estimates and projections that may change over time. These changes may have a significant or adverse effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition.

Projecting contract profitability on our long-term outsourcing contracts requires us to make assumptions and estimates of future contract results. All estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to change. In an effort to maintain appropriate estimates, we review each of our long-term outsourcing contracts, the related contract reserves and intangible assets on a regular basis. If we determine that we need to change our estimates for a contract, we will change the estimates in the period in which the determination is made. These assumptions and estimates involve the exercise of judgment and discretion, which may also evolve over time in light of operational experience, regulatory direction, developments in accounting principles and other factors. Further, changes in assumptions, estimates or developments in the business or the application of accounting principles related to long-term outsourcing contracts may change our initial estimates of future contract results. Application of, and changes in, assumptions, estimates and policies may adversely affect our financial results.

Risks Relating to Integration Following the Merger and the Gras Savoye Acquisition

We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Merger or the Gras Savoye acquisition or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the businesses.

Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger and the Gras Savoye acquisition will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the businesses. The combination of independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integration activities. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, could restrict the realization of the full-expected benefits. The failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transactions could cause an interruption of or a loss of momentum in our activities and could adversely affect our results of operations.

In addition, the overall integration may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client relationships, and diversion of management’s attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:

•the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters; 

•difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combinations; 

•difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; 

33
Willis Towers Watson plc

•conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies; 

•difficulties in the assimilation of employees; 

•difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; 

•difficulties in establishing effective uniform controls, systems, procedures and policies for the combined company; 

•challenges in keeping existing clients and obtaining new clients; 

•challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and 

•coordinating a geographically dispersed organization.

Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, even if our operations are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the transactions may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integrations. All of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected benefits of the Merger or the Gras Savoye acquisition and negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares. As a result, we cannot assure you that the Merger or the Gras Savoye acquisition will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated.

Certain business uncertainties arising from the Merger or the Gras Savoye acquisition could adversely affect our businesses and operations.

Uncertainties about the effect of the Merger and the Gras Savoye acquisition on employees, customers, suppliers, business partners and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may have an adverse effect on us. During times of significant change and uncertainty such as the period following the Merger and the Gras Savoye acquisition, customers, suppliers, business partners and other persons with whom we have a business relationship may delay or defer business decisions, decide to terminate, modify or renegotiate their relationships with us, or take other actions as a result of the Merger or the Gras Savoye acquisition that could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our securities. Our ability to raise additional capital through the debt markets, and the associated borrowing costs, may also be negatively impacted. Any such effects could limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger or the Gras Savoye acquisition.

These uncertainties about the effect of the Merger and the Gras Savoye acquisition may also impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Employee retention may be challenging, as certain employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles or may be dissatisfied with their new roles. If key employees depart, our business could be materially harmed. If key employees join a competitor or form a new competitor, existing and potential clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services.

 We have incurred and will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of the Merger and the Gras Savoye acquisition.

We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with completing the Merger and the Gras Savoye acquisition, and expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with coordinating and integrating the businesses, operations, policies and procedures of the combined companies. While we have assumed that a certain level of transaction and coordination expenses will be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these transaction and coordination expenses. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses may exceed the costs historically borne by us. These costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation.

Risks Related to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation

Our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes could be affected by a change in law.

We believe that, under current law, we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, changes to the inversion rules in Code Section 7874 or the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder or other IRS guidance could adversely affect our status as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes, and any such changes could have prospective 

34
Risk factors

or retroactive application to us, our shareholders and/or our affiliates. In addition, recent legislative proposals have aimed to expand the scope of U.S. corporate tax residence, and such legislation, if passed, could have an adverse effect on us. For example, in February 2016, the President of the United States proposed legislation which would amend the anti-inversion rules to apply to a broader range of transactions. Although its application is limited to transactions closing after 2016, no assurance can be given that such proposal would not be changed in the legislative process and be enacted to apply to prior transactions. In addition, certain members of Congress have introduced similar legislation that would apply retroactively to transactions, including the Merger, closing in May 2014 or later. If such legislation were enacted, it could cause Willis Towers Watson to be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes as of or after the Merger. Furthermore, in September 2014 and November 2015, the U.S. Treasury Department and the IRS issued additional guidance stating that they intend to issue additional regulations under Section 7874. The application of such regulations to the Merger is not clear and no assurance can be given that such regulations would not cause us to be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or have other negative implications for our business. It is possible that legislation or regulation enacted now or in the future could apply retroactively to cause us to be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes as of or after the Merger.

Legislative or regulatory action in the U.S. could materially adversely affect us.

Legislative action may be taken by the U.S. Congress which, if ultimately enacted, could limit the availability of tax benefits or deductions that we currently claim, override tax treaties upon which we rely, or otherwise affect the taxes that the United States imposes on our worldwide operations. Regulations or administrative guidance from the U.S. Treasury Department could have similar consequences. Such changes could materially adversely affect our effective tax rate and/or require us to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to preserve our effective tax rate. In addition, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of limiting our ability as an Irish company to take advantage of tax treaties with the United States, we could incur additional tax expense and/or otherwise incur business detriment.

Future changes to U.S. and foreign tax laws could adversely affect us.

The U.S. Congress, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. One example is in the area of “base erosion and profit shifting,” where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. In October 2015, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development released final reports addressing fifteen specific actions as part of a comprehensive plan to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. As a result, the tax laws in the United States, Ireland, and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect us and our affiliates.

 We may not be able to maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate.

We cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future, because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from expectations and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of Ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate.

The laws of Ireland differ from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.

It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland, based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland.

A judgment obtained against us will be enforced by the courts of Ireland if the following general requirements are met: (i) U.S. courts must have had jurisdiction in relation to the particular defendant according to Irish conflict of law rules (the submission to jurisdiction by the defendant would satisfy this rule) and (ii) the judgment must be final and conclusive and the decree must be final and unalterable in the court which pronounces it. A judgment can be final and conclusive even if it is subject to appeal 

35
Willis Towers Watson plc

or even if an appeal is pending. Where however the effect of lodging an appeal under the applicable law is to stay execution of the judgment, it is possible that in the meantime the judgment may not be actionable in Ireland. It remains to be determined whether final judgment given in default of appearance is final and conclusive. However, Irish courts may refuse to enforce a judgment of the U.S. courts which meets the above requirements for one of the following reasons: (i) if the judgment is not for a definite sum of money; (ii) if the judgment was obtained by fraud; (iii) the enforcement of the judgment in Ireland would be contrary to natural or constitutional justice; (iv) the judgment is contrary to Irish public policy or involves certain U.S. laws which will not be enforced in Ireland; or (v) jurisdiction cannot be obtained by the Irish courts over the judgment debtors in the enforcement proceedings by personal service Ireland or outside Ireland under Order 11 of the Ireland Superior Courts Rules.

As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States.

Risks Relating to our Ordinary Shares

The stock price of our ordinary shares may be volatile.

The stock price of our ordinary shares may in the future be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume of our ordinary shares may in the future fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our ordinary shares include:

•General market and economic conditions, including market conditions in the human capital and risk and financial management consulting industries and regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both;

•Actual or expected variations in our quarterly results of operations and in the quarterly results of operations of companies perceived to be similar to us;

•Differences between actual results of operations and those expected by investors and analysts;

•Changes in recommendations by securities analysts;

•Operations and stock performance of competitors;

•Accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets;

•Significant acquisitions, dispositions or strategic alliances by us or by competitors;

•Sales of our ordinary shares, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors;

•Incurrence of additional debt;

•Dilutive issuance of equity;

•Recruitment or departure of key personnel;

•Loss or gain of key clients;

•Litigation involving us, our general industry or both; and

•Changes in reserves for professional liability claims.

There can be no assurance that the stock price of the ordinary shares will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. In addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to our performance.

36
Risk factors

Transfers of our ordinary shares, other than by means of the transfer of book-entry interests in the Depository Trust Company (‘DTC’), may be subject to Irish stamp duty.

It is expected that for the majority of transfers of our ordinary shares, there will not be any stamp duty. Transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in DTC are not subject to Irish stamp duty. However, if you hold our ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through DTC, any transfer of our ordinary shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired). A shareholder who directly holds shares may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account to be held through DTC (or vice versa) without giving rise to Irish stamp duty provided that there is no change in the beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and the transfer is not in contemplation of a sale of the shares by a beneficial owner to a third party. We intend (but have no obligation) to pay stamp duty in certain circumstances.

Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares.

In certain limited circumstances, dividends paid by us may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax.

In certain limited circumstances, Irish dividend withholding tax (‘DWT’) (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends, if any, paid on our ordinary shares. A number of exemptions from DWT exist, including exemptions pursuant to which shareholders resident in the U.S. and shareholders resident in certain other countries may be entitled to exemptions from DWT.

Ordinary shares received by means of a gift or inheritance could be subject to Irish capital acquisitions tax.

Irish capital acquisitions tax (‘CAT’) (currently levied at a rate of 33% above certain tax-free thresholds) could apply to a gift or inheritance of our ordinary shares irrespective of the place of residence, ordinary residence or domicile of the parties. This is because our ordinary shares will be regarded as property situated in Ireland for Irish CAT purposes. The person who receives the gift or inheritance has primary liability for CAT.

Item 1B — Unresolved Staff Comments

The Company had no unresolved comments from the SEC’s staff.

37
Willis Towers Watson plc

Item 2 — Properties