Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, Canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. From time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. The Company had no derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2016.  

Interest Rate Exposure — Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities. As of December 31, 2016, we had $9.4 billion of long-term debt, excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to terminated interest rate derivatives, discounts, premiums and debt issuance costs. We have $1.6 billion of debt that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months. Our variable-rate debt obligations include (i) $491 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (ii) $473 million of tax- exempt bonds with term interest rate periods scheduled to expire within the next 12 months; (iii) $426 million of borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and (iv) $239 million of borrowings outstanding under our Canadian term loan. We currently estimate that a 100-basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2017 interest expense by approximately $15 million.  

Our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax-exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds 12 months. The fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change.  

We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments. This analysis is inherently limited because it reflects a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. An instantaneous, 100-basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our debt by approximately $595 million at December 31, 2016.  

We are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have cash and cash equivalent balances, as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. These assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in U.S. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. Because of the short-term maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant.  

Commodity Price Exposure — In the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. We attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. Accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues may also increase or decrease.  

Currency Rate Exposure — We have operations in Canada as well as certain support functions in India and investments in Hong Kong. Where significant, we have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on components of income, including operating revenue and operating costs. However, the impact of foreign currency has not materially affected our results of operations. Historically, we hedged a portion of our foreign currency risk using currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany Canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. In March 2016, we terminated our cross-currency swaps. At termination, we received $67 million in cash for the fair value of the hedged position and reported this amount as a component of “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The realized loss from the termination did not materially affect our results of operations. Refer to Notes 8 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency derivatives and translation.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.