Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

This section includes a discussion of our results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2016. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations in Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read considering those disclosures and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto.  

Overview  

Our Company’s goals are targeted at serving our customers, our employees, the environment, the communities in which we work and our stockholders. Increasingly, customers want more of their waste materials recovered, while waste streams are becoming more complex, and our aim is to address the current needs, while anticipating the expanding and evolving needs, of our customers. We believe we are uniquely equipped to meet the challenges of the changing waste industry and our customers’ waste management needs, both today and as we work together to envision and create a more sustainable future. As the waste industry leader, we have the expertise necessary to collect and handle our customers’ waste efficiently and responsibly by delivering environmental performance — maximizing resource value, while minimizing environmental impact — so that both our economy and our environment can thrive.  

Our fundamental strategy has not changed; we remain dedicated to providing long-term value to our stockholders by successfully executing our core strategy of focused differentiation and continuous improvement, with the current state of our strategy taking into account economic conditions, the regulatory environment, asset and resource availability and current technology. We believe that focused differentiation in our industry, driven by capitalizing on our extensive, well-placed network of assets, will deliver profitable growth and competitive advantages. Simultaneously, we believe the combination of cost control, process improvement and operational efficiency will deliver on the Company’s strategy of continuous improvement and yield an attractive total cost structure and enhanced service quality. While we will continue to monitor emerging diversion technologies that may generate additional value and related market dynamics, our current attention will be on improving existing diversion technologies, such as our recycling operations.  

We believe that execution of our strategy will deliver shareholder value and leadership in a dynamic industry.  

Notable items of our 2016 financial results include:  

   •   Revenues of $13,609 million in 2016 compared with $12,961 million in 2015, an increase of $648 million. This increase in revenues is primarily attributable to (i) the combined impact of yield and volume growth, which contributed $437 million of additional revenues, primarily in our collection and disposal and recycling operations and (ii) acquisitions, net of divestitures, which contributed $238 million of revenue growth, primarily due to the acquisition of certain operations and business assets of SWS in January 2016. These increases were partially offset by foreign currency translation related to our Canadian operations;  

   •   Operating expenses of $8,486 million in 2016, or 62.4% of revenues, compared with $8,231 million, or 63.5% of revenues, in 2015. This increase of $255 million is primarily attributable to (i) incremental costs attributable to acquired businesses, net of divestitures, of approximately $143 million; (ii) increased landfill operating costs of $97 million, primarily landfill leachate management costs; (iii) increased cost of goods sold of $60 million, primarily related to higher recycling commodity prices and (iv) costs associated with higher volumes, estimated at $60 million. These increases were partially offset by lower fuel costs of $66 million, primarily due to lower year-over-year average fuel prices;  

   •    

Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1,410 million in 2016, compared with $1,343 million in 2015, or 10.4% of revenues for both periods. This increase of $67 million is primarily attributable to higher labor and related benefits of $94 million, primarily due to increased incentive compensation  

33  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 costs, merit increases and higher severance costs. These increases were partially offset by reduced legal fees, lower bank charges and favorable litigation settlements;  

   •   Income from operations of $2,296 million, or 16.9% of revenues, in 2016 compared with $2,045 million, or 15.8% of revenues, in 2015, an increase of $251 million. In addition to the items discussed above, the comparability was also affected by asset impairments and unusual items in both periods, as discussed below;  

   •   Net income attributable to Waste Management, Inc. of $1,182 million, or $2.65 per diluted share, for 2016, as compared with $753 million, or $1.65 per diluted share, for 2015. The increase was primarily driven by the earnings growth of our core operations discussed above as well as the 2015 loss on early extinguishment of debt discussed below; and  

   •   In 2016, we returned $1,451 million to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases compared with $1,295 million in 2015.  

The Company had a very successful 2016, exceeding expectations and carrying forward our momentum from 2015 by generating strong earnings and cash flow. Our commitment to executing on our strategies of disciplined profitable volume growth and controlling costs, through focused differentiation and continuous improvement, drove these impressive results in 2016 and have built a strong foundation to produce solid earnings and generate further growth in 2017. This growth, combined with our commitment to maintain a strong balance sheet, supports the Company’s continued focus on investing in our business, paying dividends, pursuing attractive opportunities for strategic growth through acquisitions and considering the market for share repurchases.  

The following explanations of certain items that affected the comparability of the years presented has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2016 results were affected by the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our 2015 results were affected by the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •   Pre-tax charges of $51 million associated with the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans had a negative impact of $0.07 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   •   Net pre-tax charges of $102 million resulting from impairments, restructuring and divestitures, of which $66 million related to the impairment of our oil and gas producing properties. These items had a negative impact of $0.14 on our diluted earnings per share.  

Free Cash Flow  

As is our practice, we are presenting free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity, in our disclosures because we use this measure in the evaluation and management of our business. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures, plus proceeds from divestitures of businesses and other assets (net of cash divested). We believe it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of  

34  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. Free cash flow is not intended to replace “Net cash provided by operating activities,” which is the most comparable GAAP measure. However, we believe free cash flow gives investors useful insight into how we view our liquidity. Nonetheless, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt service requirements.  

Our calculation of free cash flow and reconciliation to “Net cash provided by operating activities” is shown in the table below (in millions), and may not be calculated the same as similarly-titled measures presented by other companies:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 to the comparable period in 2015, the increase of $462 million is primarily related to (i) higher earnings from our Traditional Solid Waste business; (ii) cash proceeds of $67 million from the termination of our cross-currency swaps in the first quarter of 2016; (iii) trustee-managed multiemployer defined benefit pension plan (“Multiemployer Pension Plan”) settlement payments of approximately $60 million in 2015 and (iv) lower annual incentive plan cash payments of $46 million in the current year; partially offset, by higher income tax payments, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, of $36 million in the current year. Additionally, we experienced net favorable changes in our assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures, particularly non-trade related items including payroll and incentive accruals.  

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 to 2014, the increase of $167 million is primarily related to (i) lower income tax payments, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, of $329 million in 2015; (ii) lower interest paid of $77 million in 2015 and (iii) the settlement of forward-starting swap liabilities of $36 million in 2014. These increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease in cash earnings due to the sale of our Wheelabrator business in 2014; (ii) Multiemployer Pension Plan settlement payments of approximately $60 million in 2015 and (iii) higher year-over-year annual incentive plan payments of approximately $65 million in 2015. Finally, we experienced net unfavorable changes in our assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures, particularly non-trade related items including payroll and incentive accruals.  

Capital expenditures increased by $106 million in 2016 compared to 2015 and by $82 million in 2015 compared to 2014. The increase in our capital expenditures in both years is generally the result of additional spending on new business opportunities and acquisitions, growth in our existing business and asset replacement timing. In addition, the construction of a waste-water treatment facility at one of our landfills also contributed to the increase in 2016. Although we experienced capital expenditure increases in both 2016 and 2015, the Company continues to maintain a disciplined focus on capital management.  

The significantly higher proceeds from divestitures of businesses and other assets (net of cash divested) for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 is largely driven by the 2014 sales of (i) our Wheelabrator business for $1.95 billion; (ii) our investment in Shanghai Environment Group, which was part of our Wheelabrator business, for $155 million and (iii) our Puerto Rico operations for consideration of $80 million, including $65 million in cash.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Acquisitions  

Southern Waste Systems/Sun Recycling (“SWS”) — On January 8, 2016, Waste Management Inc. of Florida, a wholly-owned subsidiary of WM, acquired certain operations and business assets of SWS in Southern Florida for total consideration of $525 million. The acquired business assets include residential, commercial, and industrial solid waste collection, processing/recycling and transfer operations, equipment, vehicles, real estate and customer agreements.  

Deffenbaugh Disposal, Inc. (“Deffenbaugh”) — On March 26, 2015, we acquired Deffenbaugh, one of the largest privately owned collection and disposal firms in the Midwest, for total consideration, net of cash acquired, of $400 million. Deffenbaugh’s assets include collection operations, transfer stations, recycling facilities and landfills.  

Divestitures  

Wheelabrator Business — On December 19, 2014, we sold our Wheelabrator business to an affiliate of Energy Capital Partners and received cash proceeds of $1.95 billion, net of cash divested, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We recognized a gain of $519 million on this sale, which is included within “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2015, net adjustments to this gain were immaterial on a pre-tax basis. In conjunction with the sale, the Company entered into several agreements to dispose of a minimum number of tons of waste at certain Wheelabrator facilities. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these agreements.  

Other — In addition to the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business, we also divested our Puerto Rico operations, as well as certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area in 2014.  

In total, these divested businesses and assets provided $0.18 of diluted earnings per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2014.  

Adoption of New Accounting Standards  

Debt Issuance Costs — In April 2015, and as subsequently amended, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued amended authoritative guidance associated with debt issuance costs which were previously presented as assets related to recognized debt liabilities. The amended guidance requires that debt issuance costs, other than those costs related to line of credit arrangements, be presented on the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability, which is similar to the presentation for debt discounts and premiums. This guidance was effective for the Company on January 1, 2016. The Company’s adoption of this guidance was applied retrospectively and resulted in a reclassification of $52 million of such costs in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2015.  

Consolidation — In February 2015, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with consolidation. The amended guidance makes changes to existing consolidation requirements associated with the analysis a reporting entity must perform to determine whether it should consolidate certain types of legal entities, including limited partnerships and variable interest entities. The guidance was effective for the Company on January 1, 2016. The Company’s adoption of this guidance did not impact our consolidated financial statements.  

Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions  

In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with precision from available data or simply cannot be calculated. In some cases, these estimates are difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that present the greatest amount of uncertainty  

36  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, long-lived asset impairments, deferred income taxes and reserves associated with our insured and self-insured claims. Each of these items is discussed in additional detail below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements.  

Landfills  

Accounting for landfills requires that significant estimates and assumptions be made regarding (i) the cost to construct and develop each landfill asset; (ii) the estimated fair value of final capping, closure and post-closure asset retirement obligations, which must consider both the expected cost and timing of these activities; (iii) the determination of each landfill’s remaining permitted and expansion airspace and (iv) the airspace associated with each final capping event.  

Landfill Costs — We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs.  

Final Capping Costs — We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate landfill final capping costs to specific final capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post-closure monitoring and maintenance. The estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also consider when the costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post-closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Remaining Permitted Airspace — Our engineers, in consultation with third-party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography.  

Expansion Airspace — We also include currently unpermitted expansion airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an  

37  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe that obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria:  

   •   Personnel are actively working on the expansion of an existing landfill, including efforts to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals;  

   •   We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;  

   •   There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could negatively affect the success of such expansion; and  

   •   Financial analysis has been completed based on conceptual design, and the results demonstrate that the expansion meets Company criteria for investment.  

For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if certain of these criteria are no longer met as long as we continue to believe we will ultimately obtain the permit, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill-specific review process that includes approval by our Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 16 landfill sites with expansions included at December 31, 2016, three landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace because the permit application process did not meet the one- or five-year requirements.  

When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement costs related to final capping, closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill.  

Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined in cubic yards, an airspace utilization factor (“AUF”) is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and is then adjusted to account for future settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site-specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate and operating practices. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi-level review by our engineering group and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements.  

After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed as waste is received and deposited at the landfill by dividing the costs by the corresponding number of tons. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change.  

It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post-closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to  

38  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 higher amortization rates or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if it is determined that expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of a landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment or incur significantly higher amortization expense. If at any time management makes the decision to abandon the expansion effort, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately.  

Environmental Remediation Liabilities  

We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party (“PRP”) investigations, settlements, and certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials, external contractor costs and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on a number of estimates and assumptions.  

Where it is probable that a liability has been incurred, we estimate costs required to remediate sites based on site-specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the costs for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third-party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:  

   •   Management’s judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties’ sites;  

   •   Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation;  

   •   The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and  

   •   The typical allocation of costs among PRPs, unless the actual allocation has been determined.  

Long-Lived Asset Impairments  

We assess our long-lived assets for impairment as required under the applicable accounting standards. If necessary, impairments are recorded in the “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

Property and Equipment, including Landfills and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets — We monitor the carrying value of our long-lived assets for potential impairment on an ongoing basis and test the recoverability of such assets generally using significant unobservable (“Level 3”) inputs whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or changes in circumstances, including management decisions pertaining to such assets, are referred to as impairment indicators. If an impairment indicator occurs, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group; (ii) actual third-party valuations and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market for similar assets. If the fair value of an asset or asset group is determined to be less  

39  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment and projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized, which could impact our ability to accurately assess whether an asset has been impaired.  

The assessment of impairment indicators and the recoverability of our capitalized costs associated with landfills and related expansion projects require significant judgment due to the unique nature of the waste industry, the highly regulated permitting process and the sensitive estimates involved. During the review of a landfill expansion application, a regulator may initially deny the expansion application although the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace, or a landfill may be required to cease accepting waste, prior to receipt of the expansion permit. However, such events occur in the ordinary course of business in the waste industry and do not necessarily result in impairment of our landfill assets because, after consideration of all facts, such events may not affect our belief that we will ultimately obtain the expansion permit. As a result, our tests of recoverability, which generally make use of a probability-weighted cash flow estimation approach, may indicate that no impairment loss should be recorded. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions — Expansion Airspace above for discussion of criteria involved in assessing our likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit.  

Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess the goodwill of our reporting units for impairment using Level 3 inputs.  

We assess whether a goodwill impairment exists using both qualitative and quantitative assessments. Our qualitative assessment involves determining whether events or circumstances exist that indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If based on this qualitative assessment we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we will not perform a quantitative assessment.  

If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to perform a qualitative assessment, we perform a quantitative assessment, or two-step impairment test, to determine whether a goodwill impairment exists at the reporting unit. The first step in our quantitative assessment identifies potential impairments by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. Fair value is typically estimated using an income approach. However, when appropriate, we may also use a market approach. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows of the reporting units. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting units’ expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business. The market approach estimates fair value by measuring the aggregate market value of publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics to our business as a multiple of their reported earnings. We then apply that multiple to the reporting units’ earnings to estimate their fair values. We believe that this approach may also be appropriate in certain circumstances because it provides a fair value estimate using valuation inputs from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our reporting units.  

Fair value is computed using several factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them in our analysis. However, we believe our methodology for estimating the fair value of our reporting units is reasonable.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to goodwill impairments recognized during the reported periods.  

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Other Than Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill for impairment.  

When performing the impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we generally first conduct a qualitative analysis to determine whether we believe it is more likely than not that an asset has been impaired. If it is more likely than not that an asset has been impaired, we then evaluate for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of the asset to its carrying value. An impairment charge is recognized if the asset’s estimated fair value is less than its carrying value.  

Fair value is typically estimated using an income approach. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business.  

Fair value is computed using several factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them in our analysis. However, we believe our methodology for estimating the fair value of these assets is reasonable.  

Deferred Income Taxes  

Deferred income taxes are based on the difference between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred income tax provision represents the change during the reporting period in the deferred tax assets and liabilities, net of the effect of acquisitions and dispositions. Deferred tax assets include tax loss and credit carry-forwards and are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We establish reserves for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions may be challenged and potentially disallowed. When facts and circumstances change, we adjust these reserves through our provision for income taxes. Should interest and penalties be assessed by taxing authorities on any underpayment of income tax, such amounts would be accrued and classified as a component of provision for income taxes in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.  

Insured and Self-Insured Claims  

We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation claims programs. The exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, are based on an actuarial valuations and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss developments significantly differ from our assumptions used. Estimated recoveries associated with our insured claims are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable.  

Results of Operations  

Operating Revenues  

Our operating revenues set forth below are primarily generated from fees charged for our collection, transfer, disposal, and recycling and resource recovery services, and from sales of commodities by our recycling  

41  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 and landfill gas-to-energy operations. Revenues from our collection operations are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility or MRF and our disposal costs. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenues generally consist of tipping fees and the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The fees we charge for our collection, disposal, transfer and recycling services generally include fuel surcharges, which are indexed to current market costs for diesel fuel. We also provide additional services that are not managed through our Solid Waste business, including both our Strategic Business Solutions (“WMSBS”) and Energy and Environmental Services organizations, recycling brokerage services, landfill gas-to-energy services and expanded service offerings and solutions. We also offer portable self-storage and long distance moving services; fluorescent bulb and universal waste mail-back through our LampTracker® program; portable restroom servicing under the name Port-o-Let®; and street and parking lot sweeping services. In addition, we hold interests in oil and gas producing properties. These operations are presented as “Other” in the table below. Our Wheelabrator business, divested in December 2014, provides waste-to-energy services and manages waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production plants. The following table summarizes revenues during the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The mix of operating revenues from our major lines of business is reflected in the table below for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

42  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Calculated by dividing the amount of the current year increase or decrease by the prior year’s total Company revenue adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year ($12,931 million and $13,234 million for 2016 and 2015, respectively).  

 (b) The amounts reported herein represent the changes in our revenue attributable to average yield for the total Company. We also analyze the changes in average yield in terms of related business revenues in order to differentiate the changes in yield attributable to our pricing strategies from the changes that are caused by market-driven price changes in commodities. The following table summarizes changes in revenues from average yield on a related business basis (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (i) Calculated by dividing the increase or decrease for the current year by the prior year’s related business revenue, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year.  

Our revenues increased $648 million, or 5.0%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the prior year, driven by (i) acquisitions, primarily the acquired operations of SWS in January 2016; (ii) revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal operations; (iii) higher volumes and (iv) higher market prices for the recycling commodities we sell. Partially offsetting these revenue increases were (i) lower revenues from our fuel surcharges program due to lower year-over-year diesel fuel prices; (ii) divestitures and (iii) foreign currency translation which affects revenues from our Canadian operations.  

Our revenues decreased $1,035 million, or 7.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the prior year, driven by (i) divestitures in 2014, principally our Wheelabrator business, our Puerto Rico operations, and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area; (ii) lower volumes; (iii) lower revenues from our fuel surcharge program due to declining diesel fuel prices; (iv) lower market prices for the recycling commodities we sell and (v) foreign currency translation. Partially offsetting these revenue declines were  

43  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 (i) revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal operations and (ii) revenue from acquired operations, primarily the acquired operations of Deffenbaugh in March 2015.  

The following provides further details about our period-to-period change in revenues:  

Average yield  

Collection and disposal average yield — This measure reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer and landfill operations, exclusive of volume changes. Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield includes not only base rate changes and environmental and service fee increases, but also (i) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to the types of services provided; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business and (iii) price decreases to retain customers.  

Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield was $267 million, or 2.4%, and $203 million, or 1.8%, for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We experienced growth in yield for all of our collection and disposal lines of business in both 2016 and 2015. The details are as follows (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Revenues from our environmental fee contributed $72 million and $17 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, to our collection and disposal average yield.  

Recycling commodities — Our revenues increased $51 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared with the prior year period due to a 7% year-over-year increase in the market prices for the recycling commodities we sell at our recycling facilities and through our recycling brokerage services. During 2015, revenues declined by $138 million as compared with the prior year due to a 12% year-over-year decline in recycling commodities prices.  

Fuel surcharges and mandated fees — These revenues, which are predominantly generated by our fuel surcharge program, decreased $67 million and $171 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. These revenues fluctuate in response to changes in the national average prices for diesel fuel on which our surcharge is based. Market prices for diesel fuel decreased approximately 14% in 2016 and 30% in 2015, which caused the decline in fuel surcharge revenues in 2016 and 2015. The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to pass-through fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal government agencies at our landfills and transfer stations. These fees did not have a significant impact on the comparability of the periods presented.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Volume  

Our revenues increased $186 million, or 1.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared with the prior year due to higher volumes. The year-over-year comparison does not include volumes from acquisitions, as discussed below. We experienced higher volumes in all of our collection and disposal lines of business, with the exception of our residential line of business, as a result of (i) improving market conditions; (ii) reduced customer churn and improved sales performance supported by our focus on disciplined growth and (iii) an additional workday in 2016.  

Additional drivers affecting the comparability of volumes for 2016 to 2015 are as follows:  

   •   Due to our focus on renegotiating existing contracts and winning new contracts with reasonable returns, we continue to see revenue declines in our residential line of business; and  

   •   In our ancillary service businesses, we experienced higher volumes in 2016 as compared with the prior year resulting from our Energy and Environmental Services organization, particularly our remediation and construction services, WM Renewable Energy and our portable self-storage businesses. These volume increases were partially offset by lower volumes resulting from lower oil prices, which negatively affected both our oil and gas producing properties and our oilfield services business.  

Declines in our volumes caused our revenue to decrease $215 million, or 1.6%, for the year ended December 31, 2015, as compared with the prior year. We experienced lower volumes in (i) our collection line of business, primarily due to competition and our pricing strategies; (ii) our MRFs, primarily driven by the rationalization of our underperforming assets and our strategy to not renew municipal contracts that did not reflect current market conditions and (iii) our ancillary services businesses, primarily due to the loss of certain large accounts in our WMSBS organization and lower oil prices, which negatively affected both our oil and gas producing properties and our oilfield services business. These decreases in volumes were partially offset by increases in the municipal solid waste business driven by new business and improving market conditions that favorably affected our landfill and transfer lines of business.  

Acquisitions and divestitures  

Revenues increased $268 million and $174 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, as compared with the prior year periods, due to acquisitions. The increase in revenues in 2016 was principally due to the acquired operations of SWS in January 2016. The revenue increase in 2015 was principally due to the acquired operations of Deffenbaugh in March 2015.  

These revenues were offset by revenue decreases of $30 million and $762 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, as compared with the prior year periods, due to divestitures. The decrease in revenues in 2015 was primarily driven by the divestitures in 2014 of our Wheelabrator business, our Puerto Rico operations and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area.  

Operating Expenses  

Our operating expenses are comprised of (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs discussed below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are affected by variables such as volumes, distance and fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which includes the cost to purchase recycling materials for our recycling business, including rebates paid to suppliers; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees, contingent landfill  

45  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 lease payments and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include interest accretion on landfill liabilities, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs and other landfill site costs; (ix) risk management costs, which include general liability, automobile liability, workers’ compensation and insurance and claim costs and (x) other operating costs, which include telecommunications, equipment and facility rent, property taxes, utilities and supplies.  

Our operating expenses increased $255 million, or 3.1%, when comparing 2016 with 2015 and decreased $771 million, or 8.6%, when comparing 2015 with 2014. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 62.4% in 2016, 63.5% in 2015, and 64.3% in 2014.  

The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Significant items affecting the comparison of operating expenses between periods reported include:  

Labor and related benefits — The increase in labor and related benefits in 2016 as compared with 2015 was due to (i) higher wages due to merit increases; (ii) additional costs associated with the acquired operations of SWS in January 2016; (iii) health and welfare cost increases; (iv) an additional workday in 2016 and (v) higher incentive compensation costs. These cost increases were partially offset by (i) $51 million of charges in 2015 associated with the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans and (ii) lower headcount and contract labor costs in 2016 due to operating efficiencies in our recycling line of business.  

The decrease in labor and related benefits in 2015 as compared with 2014 was due to (i) reduced costs of $88 million due to the divestitures in 2014 of our Wheelabrator business, our Puerto Rico operations, and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area; (ii) lower headcount and contract labor costs due to operating efficiencies in our recycling line of business and lower volumes in our collection line of business and (iii) lower health and welfare costs. These cost decreases were partially offset by (i) $51 million of charges in 2015 associated with the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans; (ii) higher wages due to merit increases and (iii) additional costs associated with the acquired operations of Deffenbaugh in March 2015.  

Transfer and disposal costs — The increase in transfer and disposal costs in 2016 compared to 2015 was driven by acquisitions, primarily SWS, and our overall increase in volumes. The increase in costs in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to incurring third-party costs for services previously provided on an intercompany basis prior to the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014. These cost increases were partially offset by $53 million in reduced costs due to the divestitures in 2014.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Maintenance and repairs — The increase in maintenance and repairs in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily driven by (i) higher labor and parts and supplies costs and (ii) acquisitions, primarily the acquired operations of SWS. The decrease in costs in 2015 compared to 2014 was largely driven by a $177 million decrease due to the divestitures in 2014, which was partially offset by increased costs related to the acquired operations of Deffenbaugh.  

Subcontractor costs — The increase in subcontractor cost in 2016 compared to 2015 was driven by (i) acquisitions and (ii) higher volumes in our WMSBS organization. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in subcontracted remediation services to industrial customers. The decrease in costs in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily driven by (i) volume decreases in our WMSBS organization and (ii) lower landfill and recycling costs. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in subcontracted remediation services to industrial customers.  

Cost of goods sold — The increase in cost of goods sold in 2016 compared to 2015 was due to (i) higher market prices for recycling commodities and (ii) increased costs in our remediation services business, partially offset by lower costs due to continued efforts to restructure recycling rebates paid to customers. The decrease in costs in 2015 compared to 2014 was due to (i) lower market prices for recycling commodities; (ii) lower costs of $81 million due to the 2014 divestitures; (iii) increased efforts to restructure recycling rebates paid to customers and (iv) ongoing recycling business improvement efforts around inbound quality control.  

Fuel — The decrease in fuel costs in 2016 and 2015 when compared to the prior year periods was driven by (i) lower fuel prices; (ii) lower costs resulting from the continued conversion of our fleet to natural gas vehicles; (iii) year-over-year increases in natural gas fuel excise credits and (iv) reduced fuel consumption due to efficiency gains in the routing of our fleet. The increase in collection volumes in 2016 partially offset these decreases.  

Disposal and franchise fees and taxes — The increase in disposal and franchise fees and taxes in 2016 compared to 2015 is primarily due to (i) higher landfill volumes and (ii) increased municipal franchise fees and subcontracted remediation services to industrial customers. The decrease when comparing 2015 to 2014 is primarily driven by the divestitures in 2014.  

Landfill operating costs — The increase in landfill operating costs when comparing 2016 to 2015 is primarily due to higher leachate management costs. Leachate management costs have increased because, in certain parts of the country, we are transporting leachate further in order to reach treatment facilities, the third-party fees charged for treatment of waste water have increased and the volume of leachate being disposed has increased. 

Higher leachate transportation and disposal costs also affected the comparison of our landfill operating costs for 2015 and 2014, though the increased costs were more than offset by the impact of 2014 divestitures and discount rate adjustments. As discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we record adjustments to our landfill operating costs for changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to discount the present value of our environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets.  

Risk management — The decrease in costs in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to a reduction in certain uninsured losses and, to a lesser extent, decreased workers’ compensation claims.  

Other — The decrease in costs in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily related to lower rental costs and favorable adjustments to our contingent consideration liabilities associated with certain acquisitions. The decrease in costs in 2015 compared to 2014 was principally driven by a decrease of $63 million due to the divestitures in 2014.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor and related benefits which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity-based compensation;  

47  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees and (iv) other selling, general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility-related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, bank charges, computer costs, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our “Other” selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses increased $67 million, or 5.0%, when comparing 2016 with 2015 and decreased $138 million, or 9.3%, when comparing 2015 with 2014. Our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 10.4% in 2016, 10.4% in 2015 and 10.6% in 2014.  

The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Significant factors affecting our expense in 2016 as compared to 2015 include:  

Labor and related benefits — The increase in labor and related benefits was primarily due to (i) higher incentive compensation costs; (ii) merit increases; (iii) higher severance costs and (iv) acquisitions.  

Professional fees — The decrease in professional fees was primarily due to lower legal fees.  

Other — The decrease in other expenses was principally driven by favorable litigation settlements and lower bank charges.  

The divestitures in 2014, primarily the sale of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014, favorably affected all cost categories when comparing expenses in 2015 to 2014. In addition to the impact of divestitures, other significant factors affecting our expense in 2015 as compared to 2014 include:  

Labor and related benefits — The decrease in labor and related benefits was due to (i) cost savings from our August 2014 reorganization and (ii) lower incentive compensation costs, which were partially offset by merit increases.  

Other — The decrease in other expenses was principally driven by lower litigation settlement costs and our continued focus on controlling costs.  

Depreciation and Amortization Expenses  

Depreciation and amortization expenses include (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded for capital leases, on a straight-line basis from three to 40 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction and asset retirement costs arising from closure and post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the total estimated remaining capacity of a site, which includes both permitted capacity and expansion capacity that meets our Company-specific criteria for amortization purposes; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units-of-consumption method as airspace is  

48  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, using either a 150% declining balance approach or a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are generally from two to 15 years depending on the type of asset.  

The following table summarizes the components of our depreciation and amortization expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in depreciation of tangible property and equipment and amortization of intangible assets during 2016 as compared to the prior year is primarily due to the acquired operations of SWS in January 2016. The increase in amortization of landfill airspace during 2016 as compared to the prior year is due to increased volumes at our landfills, partially offset by changes in our landfill estimates.  

The decrease in depreciation of tangible property and equipment during 2015 as compared to the prior year is primarily due to the December 2014 sale of our Wheelabrator business as discussed further in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in amortization of landfill airspace during 2015 as compared to the prior year is primarily due to increased volumes, a portion of which relates to the acquisition of Deffenbaugh in March 2015. This increase was partially offset by favorable adjustments resulting from changes in landfill estimates.  

Restructuring Costs  

During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized $4 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $2 million was related to employee severance and benefit costs. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized $15 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $10 million was related to employee severance and benefit costs, including costs associated with the loss of a municipal contract in our Eastern Canada Area and our acquisition of Deffenbaugh. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

In August 2014, we announced a consolidation and realignment of several Corporate functions to better support achievement of the Company’s strategic goals, including cost reduction. Voluntary separation arrangements were offered to all salaried employees within these organizations. Approximately 650 employees separated from our Corporate and recycling organizations in connection with this restructuring. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized a total of $82 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $70 million was related to employee severance and benefit costs. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

49  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

(Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items  

The following table summarizes the major components of (income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized net charges of $112 million, primarily related to (i) $44 million of charges to adjust our subsidiary’s estimated environmental remediation liability related to a closed site in Harris County, Texas, as further discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; (ii) a $43 million charge to impair a landfill in Western Pennsylvania due to a loss of expected volumes; (iii) $12 million of goodwill impairment charges primarily related to our LampTracker® reporting unit and (iv) an $8 million loss on the sale of a majority-owned organics company.  

During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized net charges of $82 million, primarily related to (i) $66 million of charges to impair certain of our oil and gas producing properties as a result of the continued decline in oil and gas prices; (ii) $18 million of charges to write down or divest certain assets in our recycling operations and (iii) a $5 million impairment of a landfill in our Western Canada Area due to revised post-closure cost estimates. Partially offsetting these charges was $7 million in net gains from divestitures, including a $6 million gain on the sale of an oil and gas producing property in 2015.  

During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized net gains of $160 million, primarily related to the following:  

   •   Divestitures — We recognized net gains of $515 million, primarily as a result of a $519 million gain on the sale of our Wheelabrator business and an $18 million gain on the sale of certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area. Partially offsetting these gains was a $25 million loss on the divestiture of our Puerto Rico operations. Refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our divestitures.  

   •   Oil and gas producing properties impairments — We recognized $272 million of charges to impair certain of our oil and gas producing properties, primarily as a result of the pronounced decrease in oil and gas prices in the fourth quarter of 2014.  

   •   Goodwill impairments — We recognized $10 million of goodwill impairment charges related to our recycling reporting unit.  

   •   Other impairments — We recognized additional impairment charges of $73 million to write down assets in our waste diversion technology, renewable energy, recycling and medical waste operations.  

See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the accounting policy and analysis involved in identifying and calculating impairments.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Income from Operations  

The following table summarizes income from operations for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison.  

Our segments are discussed further in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Solid Waste — The most significant items affecting the results of operations of our Solid Waste business during the three years ended December 31, 2016 are summarized below:  

   •   Our Traditional Solid Waste business benefited from internal revenue growth; and  

   •   We recognized $51 million of charges associated with the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans in 2015 impacting all three tiers.  

In addition, the following items affected the comparability of 2016 to 2015:  

   •   Our recycling business was favorable in 2016 compared to 2015 principally due to (i) continued cost reductions; (ii) higher market prices for recycling commodities and (iii) the impairment of various recycling assets in 2015;  

   •   Increased leachate management costs in Tier 2 in 2016;  

   •   Higher labor and related benefit costs in 2016 due to merit increases, higher incentive compensation costs and increases in health and welfare costs; and  

   •   The impairment of a landfill in Tier 2 in 2016 due to a loss of expected volumes.  

In addition, the following items affected the comparability of 2015 to 2014:  

   •   The unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation on the results of our Canadian operations in Tiers 1 and 2 in 2015;  

   •   The unfavorable impact on our oilfield services business, primarily in Tier 2, of reduced drilling and auxiliary activities as a result of declining oil and gas prices in 2015;  

   •   The transfer of certain sales employees from our Corporate and Other segment to this segment in 2015; and  

   •   Our recycling business was unfavorable in 2015 compared to 2014 principally due to (i) lower market prices for recycling commodities and (ii) the impairment of various recycling assets in 2015. These unfavorable amounts were partially offset by continued cost reductions.  

51  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Other — Our “Other” income from operations includes (i) our WMSBS organization; (ii) those elements of our landfill gas-to-energy operations and third-party subcontract and administration revenues managed by our Energy and Environmental Services and WM Renewable Energy organizations that are not included with the operations of our reportable segments; (iii) our recycling brokerage services and (iv) our expanded service offerings and solutions, such as portable self-storage and long distance moving services, fluorescent lamp recycling, and interests we hold in oil and gas producing properties. In addition, our “Other” income from operations reflects the results of non-operating entities that provide financial assurance and self-insurance support for our Solid Waste business.  

The following items affected comparability of 2016 to 2015:  

   •   A $66 million charge related to impairments of oil and gas producing properties recognized in 2015;  

   •   Our energy related businesses’ results were higher in 2016 principally driven by an increase in remediation services costs to industrial customers in 2015;  

   •   Increased WMSBS costs, driven in part by the transfer of certain sales employees from our Corporate and Other segment to this segment in 2016; and  

   •   Increased expenses in 2016 from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items related to a loss on the sale of a majority-owned organics company and goodwill impairments, primarily related to our LampTracker® reporting unit.  

The following items affected comparability of 2015 to 2014:  

   •   Net charges of $66 million and $339 million primarily related to impairments of oil and gas producing properties recognized in 2015 and 2014, respectively;  

   •   Our energy related businesses’ results were lower in 2015 principally driven by an increase in remediation services costs to industrial customers in 2015; and  

   •   The transfer of certain sales employees from our Corporate and Other segment to this segment in 2015.  

Corporate and Other  

The following items affected comparability of 2016 to 2015:  

   •   Higher labor and related benefit costs in 2016 due to higher incentive compensation costs, severance costs, health and welfare costs and merit increases;  

   •   An increase in a subsidiary’s estimated environmental remediation liability related to a closed site in Harris County, Texas in 2016;  

   •   Decreased risk management costs in 2016; and  

   •   The transfer of certain sales employees to our Other segment from this segment in 2016.  

The following items affected comparability of 2015 to 2014:  

   •   Restructuring costs related to our August 2014 reorganization and subsequent benefits resulting from our restructuring efforts;  

   •   Lower health and welfare costs in 2015 primarily driven by lower claims and reduced headcount;  

   •   The transfer of certain sales employees to our Solid Waste and Other segments from this segment in 2015;  

   •   Continued focus on controlling costs resulting in lower professional fees, telecommunications, contract labor, and travel and entertainment in 2015;  

52  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   •   Charges for the settlement of a legal dispute and related fees in 2014;  

   •   Unfavorable adjustments in 2014 related to changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to discount our environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets to present value; and  

   •   Increased risk management costs in 2015 primarily related to certain higher than anticipated general liability claim settlements and a favorable risk management allocation in 2014.  

Wheelabrator — The most significant item affecting the results of operations of our Wheelabrator business in 2014 was a $519 million gain on sale of this business in December 2014.  

Interest Expense, net  

Our interest expense, net was $376 million in 2016, $385 million in 2015 and $466 million in 2014. During 2016, the decrease in interest expense was primarily attributable to the impacts of lower market interest rates on certain of our tax-exempt bonds, partially offset by increased borrowings under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility. During 2015, the decrease in interest expense was primarily attributable to the refinancing of a significant portion of our high-coupon senior notes. As a result of the combination of make-whole redemptions of certain senior notes, cash tender offers to purchase certain senior notes and the issuance of $1.8 billion of new senior notes, we reduced the weighted average interest rate of our senior note portfolio by 1%.  

Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt  

Loss on early extinguishment of debt was $4 million and $555 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The amount for 2015 was primarily associated with the early extinguishment of almost $2 billion of our high-coupon senior notes through make-whole redemption and cash tender offers. We replaced substantially all of the debt extinguished with new senior notes at significantly lower coupon interest rates and extended the weighted average duration of these debt obligations. The “Loss on early extinguishment of debt” reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for 2015 includes $122 million of charges related to make-whole redemptions and $430 million of charges related to cash tender offers.  

Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities  

We recognized equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities of $44 million, $38 million and $53 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These losses are primarily related to our noncontrolling interests in entities established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties and a refined coal facility. The tax impacts realized as a result of our investments in low-income housing properties and the refined coal facility are discussed below in Provision for Income Taxes. Refer to Notes 9 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these investments. The amount in 2014 includes charges of $11 million primarily to write down equity method investments in waste diversion technology companies to their fair value.  

Other, net  

We recognized other, net expense of $50 million, $7 million and $29 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The expenses for 2016, 2015 and 2014 were impacted by impairment charges of $42 million, $5 million and $22 million, respectively, related to other-than-temporary declines in the value of minority-owned, cost method investments in waste diversion technology companies. In addition, we recognized $8 million of expense during the first quarter of 2016 associated with the termination of our cross-currency swaps, which is discussed further in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

We recorded provisions for income taxes of $642 million, $308 million and $413 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These tax provisions resulted in effective income tax rates of 35.2%, 29.1% and 23.6% for the  

53  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 years ended 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 is primarily affected by (i) variations in our income before income taxes, as discussed above; (ii) federal tax credits; (iii) tax audit settlements; (iv) the realization of state net operating losses and credits; (v) adjustments to our accruals and related deferred taxes and (vi) the tax implications of impairments and divestitures. The impacts of these items are summarized below:  

   •   Investments Qualifying for Federal Tax Credits — Our low-income housing properties and refined coal facility investments reduced our provision for income taxes by $55 million, $57 million and $58 million, primarily as a result of the tax credits realized from these investments for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these investments.  

   •   Other Federal Tax Credits — During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recognized federal tax credits in addition to the tax credits realized from our investments in low-income housing properties and the refined coal facility, resulting in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $14 million, $15 million and $13 million, respectively.  

   •   Tax Audit Settlements — The settlement of various tax audits resulted in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $11 million, $10 million and $12 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  

   •   State Net Operating Losses and Credits — During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recognized state net operating losses and credits resulting in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $10 million, $17 million and $16 million, respectively.  

   •   Adjustments to Accruals and Related Deferred Taxes – Adjustments to our accruals and related deferred taxes due to the filing of our income tax returns and changes in state laws resulted in a reduction of $10 million, $18 million and $24 million to our provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  

   •   Tax Implications of Impairments — A portion of the impairment charges recognized in 2016, 2015 and 2014 are not deductible for tax purposes. Had the charges been fully deductible, our provision for income taxes would have been reduced by $15 million, $2 million and $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our impairment charges.  

   •   Tax Implications of Divestitures — During 2014, the Company recorded a net gain of $515 million primarily related to the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business, our Puerto Rico operations and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area. Had this net gain been fully taxable, our provision for income taxes would have increased by $138 million. During 2015, the Company recorded an additional $10 million net gain primarily related to post-closing adjustments on the Wheelabrator divestiture and had this gain been fully taxable, our provision for income taxes would have increased by $4 million. During 2016, the Company recorded a loss of $9 million related to the divestiture of certain assets and had the associated tax loss been fully deductible, our provision for income taxes would have decreased by $5 million. Refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our divestitures.  

Based on current tax laws and regulations, we expect our 2017 recurring effective tax rate will be approximately 36.5% based on projected income before income taxes, federal tax credits and other permanent items.  

Noncontrolling Interests  

Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $2 million in 2016 and $1 million in 2015 and net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $40 million in 2014. The income for 2014 was principally related to third-parties’ equity interests in two limited liability companies (“LLCs”) that owned three waste-to- 

54  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 energy facilities operated by our Wheelabrator business. In December 2014, we purchased the noncontrolling interests in the LLCs from the third parties. The LLCs were then subsequently sold as part of the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business. Refer to Notes 19 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the sale of our Wheelabrator business and the consolidation of these variable interest entities, respectively.  

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Discussion and Analysis  

We owned or operated 243 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2016 and 244 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2015. For these landfills, the following table reflects changes in capacity, as measured in tons of waste, for the years ended December 31 and remaining capacity, measured in cubic yards of waste, at December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts reflected here relate to the combined impacts of (i) new expansions pursued; (ii) increases or decreases in the airspace being pursued for ongoing expansion efforts; (iii) adjustments for differences between the airspace being pursued and airspace granted and (iv) decreases due to decisions to no longer pursue expansion permits, if any.  

 (b) We received expansion permits at 13 of our landfills during 2016 and six of our landfills during 2015, demonstrating our continued success in working with municipalities and regulatory agencies to expand the disposal capacity of our existing landfills.  

 (c) Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site-specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate and operating practices. We continually focus on improving the utilization of airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The tons received at our landfills in 2016 and 2015 are shown below (tons in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In 2016, we developed one landfill, our contract expired at one landfill and we closed one landfill.  

 (b) These amounts include 1.2 million tons at both December 31, 2016 and 2015, that were received at our landfills but were used for beneficial purposes and generally were redirected from the permitted airspace to other areas of the landfill. Waste types that are frequently identified for beneficial use include green waste for composting and clean dirt for on-site construction projects.  

When a landfill we own or operate receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, we generally transfer the management of the site, including any remediation activities, to our closed sites management group. As of December 31, 2016, our closed sites management group managed 213 closed landfills.  

Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2016 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 45 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes, disposal prices, construction and operating costs, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are seeking expansion permits at 16 of our landfills that meet the expansion criteria outlined in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions — Landfills section above. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 47 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume.  

The number of landfills owned or operated as of December 31, 2016, segregated by their estimated operating lives based on remaining permitted and expansion capacity and projected annual disposal volume, was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Of the 248 landfills, 200 are owned, 35 are operated under lease agreements and the remaining 13 are operated under other contractual agreements. We are usually responsible for the final capping, closure and post-closure obligations of these landfills.  

56  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

As of December 31, 2016, we have 15 landfills which are not currently accepting waste. We performed tests of recoverability for eight of these landfills and during the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized a $43 million charge to impair one of these landfills in Western Pennsylvania due to a loss of expected volumes. For the other seven landfills, with an aggregate net recorded capitalized landfill asset cost of $281 million, the undiscounted expected future cash flows resulting from our probability-weighted estimation approach exceeded the carrying values. We did not perform recoverability tests for the remaining seven landfills as the net recorded capitalized landfill asset cost was immaterial.  

Landfill Assets — We capitalize various costs that we incur to prepare a landfill to accept waste. These costs generally include expenditures for land (including the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property), permitting, excavation, liner material and installation, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. The cost basis of our landfill assets also includes estimates of future costs associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities, which are discussed further below.  

The changes to the cost basis of our landfill assets and accumulated landfill airspace amortization for the year ended December 31, 2016 are reflected in the table below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As of December 31, 2016, we estimate that we will spend approximately $400 million in 2017, and approximately $900 million in 2018 and 2019 combined, for the construction and development of our landfill assets. The specific timing of landfill capital spending is dependent on future events and spending estimates are subject to change due to fluctuations in landfill waste volumes, changes in environmental requirements and other factors impacting landfill operations.  

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Liabilities — As we accept waste at our landfills, we incur significant asset retirement obligations, which include liabilities associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities. These liabilities are accounted for in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for asset retirement obligations and are discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have liabilities for the remediation of properties that have incurred environmental damage, which generally was caused by operations or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired operations or a site. We recognize environmental remediation liabilities when we determine that the liability is probable and the estimated cost for the likely remedy can be reasonably estimated.  

57  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The changes to landfill and environmental remediation liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2016 are reflected in the table below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Landfill Operating Costs — The following table summarizes our landfill operating costs for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a) Leachate management costs have increased because, in certain parts of the country, we are transporting leachate further in order to reach treatment facilities, the third-party fees charged for treatment of waste water have increased and the volume of leachate being disposed has increased.  

Amortization of Landfill Airspace — Amortization of landfill airspace, which is included as a component of “Depreciation and amortization” expense, includes the following:  

   •   the amortization of landfill capital costs, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) estimated future costs for landfill development and construction required to develop our landfills to their remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and  

   •   the amortization of asset retirement costs arising from landfill final capping, closure and post-closure obligations, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) projected asset retirement costs.  

Amortization expense is recorded on a units-of-consumption basis, applying cost as a rate per ton. The rate per ton is calculated by dividing each component of the amortizable basis of a landfill by the number of tons needed to fill the corresponding asset’s airspace. Landfill capital costs and closure and post-closure asset retirement costs are generally incurred to support the operation of the landfill over its entire operating life and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using a landfill’s total airspace capacity. Final capping asset retirement costs are related to a specific final capping event and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using each discrete final capping event’s estimated airspace capacity. Accordingly, each landfill has multiple per-ton amortization rates.  

The following table presents our landfill airspace amortization expense on a per-ton basis for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

58  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Different per-ton amortization rates are applied at each of our 248 landfills, and per-ton amortization rates vary significantly from one landfill to another due to (i) inconsistencies that often exist in construction costs and provincial, state and local regulatory requirements for landfill development and landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities and (ii) differences in the cost basis of landfills that we develop versus those that we acquire. Accordingly, our landfill airspace amortization expense measured on a per-ton basis can fluctuate due to changes in the mix of volumes we receive across the Company year-over-year.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet and landfill equipment; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) final capping, closure and post-closure activities at our landfills; (vi) the repayment of debt, payment of interest and discharging of other obligations and (vii) capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments in support of our strategic growth plans. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through dividend payments and our common stock repurchase program.  

Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations  

The following is a summary of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We use long-term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax-exempt bonds to borrow on a long-term basis, but we also use other instruments and facilities, when appropriate. The components of our borrowings as of December 31, 2016 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2016 were primarily attributable to (i) net debt borrowings of $375 million and (ii) the impacts of other non-cash changes in our debt balances due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps, foreign currency translation, discounts, premiums and deferred loan costs.  

As of December 31, 2016, the current portion of our long-term debt balance of $417 million includes (i) $230 million of short-term borrowings under our long-term $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and (ii)  

59  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 $187 million of other debt with scheduled maturities within the next 12 months, including $126 million of tax-exempt bonds.  

As of December 31, 2016, we have classified $196 million of borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility as long-term because we intend and have the ability to refinance or maintain these borrowings on a long-term basis. We generally use available cash to repay borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and any remaining balances are maintained by extending the maturities of the borrowings. Our current projections indicate that we will maintain $196 million of the $426 million of borrowings outstanding for the next 12 months. The remaining $230 million of borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility is classified as current in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016.  

As of December 31, 2016, we also have $473 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that expire within the next 12 months and an additional $491 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds that are supported by letters of credit. The interest rates on our variable-rate tax-exempt bonds are generally reset on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process. All recent tax-exempt bond remarketings have successfully placed Company bonds with investors at market-driven rates and we currently expect future remarketings to be successful. However, if the remarketing agent is unable to remarket our bonds, the remarketing agent can put the bonds to us. In the event of a failed remarketing, we have the intent and ability to use availability under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility to fund the debt obligations until they can be remarketed successfully. Accordingly, we classified these borrowings as long-term in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016.  

We have credit facilities in place to support our liquidity and financial assurance needs. The following table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit, categorized by type of facility at December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In July 2015, we amended and restated our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility extending the term through July 2020. At December 31, 2016, we had $426 million of outstanding borrowings and $789 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,035 million.  

 (b) As of December 31, 2016, we had utilized $492 million of other letter of credit facilities, which are both committed and uncommitted, with terms extending through December 2018.  

Summary of Cash Flow Activity  

The following is a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows in 2016 as compared to 2015 are summarized below:  

   •    

Increase in earnings — Our income from operations, excluding depreciation and amortization and asset impairments and unusual items, increased by $337 million on a year-over-year basis, principally driven  

60  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 by earnings from our Traditional Solid Waste business. Our 2015 results included $51 million of charges associated with the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans, of which payments of approximately $60 million were made in 2015.  

   •   Cross-currency swaps — During the first quarter of 2016, we terminated our cross-currency swaps associated with the anticipated cash flows of intercompany loans between WM Holdings and its wholly-owned Canadian subsidiaries, as discussed further in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the termination, we received cash proceeds of $67 million, which were classified as a change in “Other current assets” and “Other assets.”  

   •   Decrease in annual incentive plan cash payments — Payments for our annual incentive plans are typically made in the first quarter of the year based on prior year performance. Our cash flow from operating activities was favorably impacted by $46 million on a year-over-year basis, as the annual incentive cash payments made in 2016 were lower than the cash payments made in 2015.  

   •   Increase in income tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, was $36 million higher on a year-over-year basis largely driven by higher pre-tax earnings in the current year.  

   •   Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flows from operating activities were favorably impacted on a year-over-year basis due to net changes in our assets and liabilities, exclusive of the items noted above, particularly non-trade related items including payroll and incentive accruals.  

The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows in 2015 as compared with 2014 are summarized below:  

   •   Increased earnings from our Traditional Solid Waste business — In 2015, we saw an increase in earnings from our Traditional Solid Waste business, which was enhanced by acquisitions and corporate overhead cost reductions. These cash flow improvements were slightly offset by a decrease in earnings from our recycling operations.  

   •   Cash flow of divested businesses — The divestiture of Wheelabrator in December 2014 coupled with the sale of other Solid Waste businesses throughout 2014 negatively affected the year-over-year comparison by approximately $140 million.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •   Decrease in interest payments — Cash paid for interest decreased $77 million primarily due to the refinancing of a significant portion of our high-coupon senior notes during 2015, which is discussed further in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

   •   Increase in annual incentive plan cash payments — Payments for our annual incentive plans are typically made in the first quarter of the year based on prior year performance. Our cash flow from operations was unfavorably impacted by approximately $65 million on a year-over-year basis, as the annual incentive plan payments made in 2015 were significantly higher than payments made in 2014.  

   •   Multiemployer Pension Plan settlements — In 2015, we paid approximately $60 million for the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

   •    

Forward-starting swaps — During the first quarter of 2014, the forward-starting interest rate swaps associated with the anticipated issuance of senior notes in 2014 matured and we paid cash of  

61  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 $36 million to settle the liabilities related to these swaps, as discussed further in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This cash payment was classified as a change in “Accounts payable and accrued liabilities.”  

   •   Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operating activities was unfavorably impacted on a year-over-year basis by net changes in our assets and liabilities, exclusive of the items noted above, particularly non-trade related items including payroll and incentive accruals.  

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   •   Capital expenditures — We used $1,339 million during 2016 for capital expenditures, compared with $1,233 million in 2015 and $1,151 million in 2014. The increase in our capital expenditures in both years is generally the result of additional spending on new business opportunities and acquisitions, growth in our existing business and asset replacement timing. In addition, the construction of a waste-water treatment facility at one of our landfills also contributed to the increase in 2016. Although, we experienced capital expenditure increases in both 2016 and 2015, the Company continues to maintain a disciplined focus on capital management.  

   •   Proceeds from divestitures — Proceeds from divestitures of businesses and other assets (net of cash divested) were $43 million in 2016, $145 million in 2015 and $2,253 million in 2014. In 2016 and 2015, $2 million and $79 million of these divestitures, respectively, were made as part of our continuous focus on improving or divesting certain non-strategic or underperforming operations, with the remaining amounts generally related to the sale of fixed assets. In 2014, our proceeds from divestitures were primarily related to the sale of our Wheelabrator business for $1.95 billion and, to a lesser extent, the sale of our Puerto Rico operations and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area.  

   •   Acquisitions — Our spending on acquisitions was $611 million, $554 million and $35 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. In 2016, $525 million of our spending on acquisitions was for certain operations and business assets of SWS. The remainder of our 2016 acquisition spending primarily related to our Solid Waste business. In 2015, $400 million of our spending on acquisitions was for the collection and disposal operations of Deffenbaugh. The remainder of our 2015 acquisition spending primarily related to our Solid Waste business. All of our 2014 acquisitions related to our Solid Waste business. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our acquisitions. We continue to focus on accretive acquisitions and growth opportunities that will enhance and expand our existing service offerings.  

   •   Investments in unconsolidated entities — We made $21 million, $20 million and $33 million of cash investments in unconsolidated entities during 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. In 2016 and 2015, our investments primarily consisted of additional capital contributions associated with our investment in a refined coal facility, which generates federal tax credits. In 2014, our investments primarily related to additional capital contributions associated with our investment in a refined coal facility and waste diversion technology companies.  

   •   Net receipts from restricted funds — Net cash received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts contributed $51 million and $19 million to our investing activities in 2015 and 2014, respectively. In 2015, these activities were largely related to our replacement of funded trust and escrow accounts with alternative forms of financial assurance.  

   •   Other — Net cash used by our other investing activities was $4 million and $58 million in 2016 and 2014, respectively, and net cash provided by our other investing activities was $3 million during 2015. Net cash used by our other investing activities of $58 million during 2014 was primarily associated with the funding of notes receivable associated with Wheelabrator’s investments in the United Kingdom, prior to the sale of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   •   Common stock repurchase program — For the periods presented, all share repurchases have been made in accordance with financial plans approved by our Board of Directors.  

We paid $725 million, $600 million and $600 million for share repurchases during 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

We announced in December 2016 that the Board of Directors has authorized up to $750 million in future share repurchases. Any future share repurchases will be made at the discretion of management, and will depend on factors similar to those considered by the Board of Directors in making dividend declarations.  

   •   Cash dividends — For the periods presented, all dividends have been declared by our Board of Directors.  

We paid aggregate cash dividends of $726 million, $695 million and $693 million during 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.375 in 2014 to $0.385 in 2015 and to $0.41 in 2016 and has been offset, in part, by a reduction in our common stock outstanding as a result of our common stock repurchase program.  

In December 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors expects to increase the quarterly dividend from $0.41 to $0.425 per share for dividends declared in 2017. However, all future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future business plans and other factors the Board of Directors may deem relevant.  

   •   Proceeds from the exercise of common stock options — The exercise of common stock options generated financing cash inflows of $63 million, $77 million and $93 million during 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The year-over-year changes are generally due to the number of stock options exercised and the exercise price of those options.  

63  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   •   Debt borrowings (repayments) — The following summarizes our cash borrowings and debt repayments made for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our debt borrowings and repayments.  

   •   Premiums paid on early extinguishment of debt — Premiums paid on early extinguishment of debt were $2 million and $555 million in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The amount for 2015 was primarily related to (i) make-whole premiums paid on certain senior notes that the Company decided to redeem in advance of their scheduled maturities and (ii) premiums paid to tender certain high-coupon senior notes. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these transactions.  

   •   Acquisitions of and distributions paid to noncontrolling interests — The acquisitions of and distributions paid to our noncontrolling interests were $1 million, $1 million and $125 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The amount for 2014 is primarily attributable to the purchase of the noncontrolling interests in the LLCs related to our waste-to-energy facilities in December 2014 for $91 million. The LLCs were then subsequently sold as part of the Wheelabrator divestiture, also in December 2014. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these LLCs.  

64  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Summary of Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation costs recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2016, without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities for final capping, closure and post-closure will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills.  

 (b) These amounts represent the scheduled principal payments related to our long-term debt, excluding interest.  

 (c) Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2016 include $473 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods scheduled to expire within the next 12 months. If the re-offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowings for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2016, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 (d) Our recorded debt obligations include non-cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums, deferred loan costs and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded as they will not impact our liquidity in future periods.  

 (e) Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods and interest payable on our debt. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

 (f) Interest on our fixed-rate debt was calculated based on contractual rates and interest on our variable-rate debt was calculated based on interest rates at December 31, 2016. For debt balances outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, we have reflected limited interest amounts due to the short-term nature of the borrowings. For debt balances outstanding under our Canadian term loan, we have reflected interest based on the current outstanding principal assuming the amount remains unchanged through maturity. As of December 31, 2016, we had $88 million of accrued interest related to our debt obligations.  

 (g) Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For contracts that require us to purchase minimum quantities of goods or services, we have estimated our future minimum obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. Accordingly, the amounts reported in the table are subject to change and actual cash flow obligations in the near future may be different. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations.  

65  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We have financial interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities as discussed in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2016, nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

New Accounting Standards Pending Adoption  

Income Taxes — In October 2016, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with the timing of recognition of income taxes for intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. The amended guidance requires the recognition of income taxes when the transfer of the asset occurs, which replaces current U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) that defers the recognition of income taxes until the transferred asset is sold to a third party or otherwise recovered through use. The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We are in the process of assessing the provisions of this amended guidance; however, we currently do not expect that the adoption of this amended guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Statement of Cash Flows — In August 2016, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. In November 2016, the FASB issued additional guidance on the presentation of restricted cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. The objective of both amendments was to reduce existing diversity in practice. The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We are in the process of assessing the provisions of this amended guidance; however, we currently do not expect that the adoption of this amended guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Financial Instrument Credit Losses — In June 2016, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. The amended guidance replaces the current incurred loss impairment methodology of recognizing credit losses when a loss is probable, with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to assess credit loss estimates. The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted beginning January 1, 2019. We are assessing the provisions of the amended guidance and evaluating the timing and impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Stock Compensation — In March 2016, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with stock-based compensation as part of its simplification initiative to reduce the cost and complexity of compliance with GAAP, while maintaining or improving the usefulness of the information provided. The amended guidance changes both the accounting and financial reporting for certain income tax impacts of stock-based compensation. All excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies will be required to be recognized as an income tax benefit or provision rather than as a component of equity. The guidance also provides for changes in the calculation of forfeitures related to the expense of stock-based compensation. The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2017. The adoption of this amended guidance will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Leases — In February 2016, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with lease accounting. The amended guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for those leases with terms in excess of 12 months and currently classified as operating leases. The disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements will also be required. The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. We are assessing the provisions of the amended guidance and evaluating the timing and impact on our consolidated financial statements and disclosures.  

66  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Financial Instruments — In January 2016, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with the recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. The amended guidance will require certain equity investments that are not consolidated to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income rather than as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted. We are assessing the provisions of the amended guidance and evaluating the timing and impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition — In May 2014, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with revenue recognition. The amended guidance requires companies to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Additionally, the amendments will require enhanced qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding customer contracts. The amended guidance associated with revenue recognition is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018. The amended guidance may be applied retrospectively for all periods presented (“full retrospective method”) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the amended guidance recognized at the date of initial adoption (“modified retrospective method”).  

To assess the impact of the standard, we utilized internal resources to lead the implementation effort and supplemented them with external resources. Our internal resources read the amended guidance, attended trainings and consulted with non-authoritative groups to assist with interpretation of the amended guidance. Surveys were sent to and returned by all operating segments to assess the potential impact of the amended guidance and to tailor specific procedures to evaluate the potential impact. Based on the results of these surveys, we judgmentally selected a sample of contracts based on size and specifically identified contract traits that could be accounted for differently under the amended guidance. We also selected a representative sample of contracts to corroborate the survey results. We have completed our preliminary review of all contracts and are in the process of compiling and summarizing the results to determine whether additional review and analysis is necessary.  

Based on our work to date, we believe we have identified all material contract types and costs that may be impacted by this amended guidance. We expect to quantify and disclose the expected impact, if any, of adopting this amended guidance in the third quarter Form 10-Q. While we are still evaluating the impact of the amended guidance, we currently do not expect it to have a material impact on operating revenues.  

Upon adoption of the amended guidance, we anticipate recognizing an asset from the capitalization of sales incentives as contract acquisitions costs. Under the amended guidance, sales incentives will be capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the customer relationship. Currently, the Company expenses approximately $65 million in sales incentives annually. As noted above, we are still evaluating other possible impacts on our consolidated financial statements, including potential changes in the classification of certain revenue streams currently reported on a gross basis and on our disclosures. The Company is also currently planning to adopt the amended guidance using the modified retrospective method as of January 1, 2018.  

Inflation  

While inflationary increases in costs can affect our income from operations margins, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, as of December 31, 2016, approximately 30% of our collection revenues are generated under long-term agreements with price adjustments based on various indices intended to measure inflation. Additionally, management’s estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities.  

67  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.