Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth prospects could suffer.  

Risks Related to Baxter’s Business  

We may not achieve our long-term financial improvement goals.  

In connection with the separation and distribution, we announced plans to enhance profitability and returns for our stockholders. These plans include the achievement of certain financial goals (including improved operating margin) in 2016 and beyond. While we are continuing to refine these goals, our plan contemplates significant margin expansion over our long-range plan, which covers the time period from 2015 through 2020. We have identified certain key strategies to help achieve these targets. These strategies include optimizing our core product portfolio globally, driving operational excellence through the rebasing of our cost structure and maximizing the value derived from the allocation of our capital.  

As part of these strategies, we continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell or acquire a business or product line or exit a particular market. We are also evaluating our corporate and commercial infrastructure in the interest of streamlining costs while maintaining our commitment to quality and safety. Future divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Future acquisitions may fail to achieve the desired financial results (including return on investment) and synergies and may not provide the desired market access. The restructuring of our operations may not generate targeted savings or may cause unexpected disruptions to our business. As a result, we may not achieve our targeted financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

We need to successfully introduce new products to achieve our strategic business objectives. Product development requires substantial investment and there is inherent risk in the research and development process. A successful product development process depends on many factors, including our ability to properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, adapt to new technologies, obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, demonstrate satisfactory clinical results, manufacture products in an economical and timely manner and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. If we cannot successfully introduce new products or adapt to changing technologies, our products may become obsolete and our revenue and profitability could suffer.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Issues with product supply or quality could have an adverse effect upon our business, subject us to regulatory actions and cause a loss of customer confidence in us or our products.  

Our success depends upon the availability and quality of our products. The medical products industry is competitive and subject to complex market dynamics and varying demand levels. These levels vary in response to macro-economic conditions, regulatory requirements (including the availability of private or public reimbursement) and seasonality. Additionally the development of new or enhanced products involves a lengthy regulatory process and is capital intensive. As a result, our ability to match our production levels and capacity to market demand is imprecise and may result in a failure to meet market demand or satisfy customer requirements for our products or, alternatively, an oversupply of inventory. Failure to meet market demand may result in customers transitioning to available competitive products resulting in a loss of market share or customer confidence. In the event of an oversupply, we may be forced to lower our prices or record asset impairment charges or take other action which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Additionally, quality management plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, improving the company’s products and services and assuring the safety and efficacy of our products. Our future success depends on our ability to maintain and continuously improve our quality management program. While we have one quality system deployed globally that covers the lifecycle of our products, quality and safety issues may occur with respect to any of our products. A quality or safety issue may result in adverse inspection reports, warning letters, product recalls (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries) or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, costly litigation, refusal of a government to grant approvals and licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. An inability to address a quality or safety issue in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence in us or our current or future products, which may result in the loss of sales and difficulty in successfully launching new products. Additionally, Baxter has made and continues to make significant investments in assets, including inventory and property, plant and equipment, which relate to potential new products or modifications to existing products. Product quality or safety issues may restrict the company from being able to realize the expected returns from these investments, potentially resulting in asset impairments in the future.  

Unaffiliated third party suppliers provide a number of goods and services to our R&D, clinical and manufacturing organizations. Third party suppliers are required to comply with our quality standards. Failure of a third party supplier to provide compliant raw materials or supplies could result in delays, service interruptions or other quality related issues that may negatively impact our business results. In addition, some of the raw materials employed in our production processes are derived from human and animal origins, requiring robust controls to eliminate the potential for introduction of pathogenic agents or other contaminants.  

For more information on regulatory matters currently affecting us, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

We are subject to a number of existing laws and regulations, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment.  

As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and products, and those of our customers, are regulated by numerous government agencies, both inside and outside the United States. The impact of this on us is direct to the extent we are subject to these laws and regulations, and indirect in that in a number of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations.  

7  

Table of Contents 

The manufacture, distribution, marketing and use of our products are subject to extensive regulation and scrutiny by FDA and other regulatory authorities globally. Any new product must undergo lengthy and rigorous testing and other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated by FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Changes to current products may be subject to vigorous review, including additional 510(k) and other regulatory submissions, and approvals are not certain. Our facilities must be approved and licensed prior to production and remain subject to inspection from time to time thereafter. Failure to comply with the requirements of FDA or other regulatory authorities, including a failed inspection or a failure in our adverse event reporting system, could result in adverse inspection reports, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in us and our products, which could adversely affect our sales. The requirements of regulatory authorities, including interpretative guidance, are subject to change and compliance with additional or changing requirements or interpretative guidance may subject the company to further review, result in product launch delays or otherwise increase our costs. For information on current regulatory issues affecting us, please refer to the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In connection with these issues, there can be no assurance that additional costs or civil and criminal penalties will not be incurred, that additional regulatory actions with respect to the company will not occur, that the company will not face civil claims for damages from purchasers or users, that substantial additional charges or significant asset impairments may not be required, that sales of other products may not be adversely affected, or that additional regulation will not be introduced that may adversely affect the company’s operations and consolidated financial statements.  

The sales, marketing and pricing of products and relationships that pharmaceutical and medical device companies have with healthcare providers are under increased scrutiny by federal, state and foreign government agencies. Compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute, False Claims Act, Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (including as these laws relate to off-label promotion of products) and other healthcare related laws, as well as competition, data and patient privacy and export and import laws, is under increased focus by the agencies charged with overseeing such activities, including FDA, OIG, DOJ and the Federal Trade Commission. The DOJ and the Securities and Exchange Commission have also increased their focus on the enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), particularly as it relates to the conduct of pharmaceutical companies. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Healthcare professionals in many countries are employed by the government and consequently may be considered government officials. Foreign governments have also increased their scrutiny of pharmaceutical and medical device companies’ sales and marketing activities and relationships with healthcare providers and competitive practices generally. The laws and standards governing the promotion, sale and reimbursement of our products and those governing our relationships with healthcare providers and governments, including the Sunshine Act enacted under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, can be complicated, are subject to frequent change and may be violated unknowingly. We have compliance programs in place, including policies, training and various forms of monitoring, designed to address these risks. Nonetheless, these programs and policies may not always protect us from conduct by individual employees that violate these laws. Violations or allegations of violations of these laws may result in large civil and criminal penalties, debarment from participating in government programs, diversion of management time, attention and resources and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information related to the company’s ongoing government investigations, please refer to Note 16 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

The laws and regulations discussed above are broad in scope and subject to evolving interpretations, which could require us to incur substantial cost associated with compliance or to alter one or more of our sales and marketing practices and may subject us to enforcement actions which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

8  

Table of Contents 

If reimbursement or other payment for our current or future products is reduced or modified in the United States or abroad, including through the implementation of government-sponsored healthcare reform or other similar actions, cost containment measures, or changes to policies with respect to pricing, taxation or rebates, then our business could suffer.  

Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are paid by both public and private payors. These payors include Medicare, Medicaid, and private health care insurers in the United States and foreign governments and third-party payors outside the United States. Public and private payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We may continue to experience continued downward pricing pressures from any or all of these payors which could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operational results.  

Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. Governments around the world use various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures such as price controls, the formation of public contracting authorities, product formularies (lists of recommended or approved products), and competitive tenders which require the submission of a bid to sell products. Sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement by government agencies and healthcare programs, as well as insurance companies and other private payors. In much of Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia, for example, the government provides healthcare at low cost to patients, and controls its expenditures by purchasing products through public tenders, collective purchasing, regulating prices, setting reference prices in public tenders or limiting reimbursement or patient access to certain products. Additionally, austerity measures or other reforms by foreign governments may limit, reduce or eliminate payments for our products and adversely affect both pricing flexibility and demand for our products.  

For example, in the United States the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), which was signed into law in March 2010, includes several provisions which impact our businesses in the United States, including increased Medicaid rebates and an expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program which provides certain qualified entities, such as hospitals serving disadvantaged populations, with discounts on the purchase of drugs for outpatient use and an excise tax on the sale of certain drugs. We may also experience downward pricing pressure as the PPACA reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals and other providers. While it is intended to expand health insurance coverage and increase access to medical care generally, the long-term impact of the PPACA on our business and the demand for our products is uncertain.  

As a result of these and other measures, including future measures or reforms that cannot be predicted, reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. Legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may change at any time and in ways that may be adverse to us. We cannot predict the impact of these pressures and initiatives, or any negative effects of any additional regulations that may affect our business.  

There is substantial competition in the product markets in which we operate.  

Although no single company competes with us in all of our businesses, we face substantial competition in both of our segments from international and domestic healthcare and pharmaceutical companies and providers of all sizes. Competition is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance, and technological innovation.  

Competition may increase further as additional companies begin to enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. If our competitors respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or we do not introduce new versions or upgrades to our product portfolio in response to those requirements, our products may be rendered obsolete or non-competitive. If our competitors develop more effective or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we do, our operations will likely be negatively affected. If we are forced to reduce our prices due to  

9  

Table of Contents 

 increased competition, our business could become less profitable. The company’s sales could be adversely affected if any of its contracts with GPOs, IDNs or other customers are terminated due to increased competition or otherwise.  

If our business development activities are unsuccessful, our business could suffer and our financial performance could be adversely affected.  

As part of our long-term strategy, we are engaged in business development activities including evaluating acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities. These activities may result in substantial investment of the company’s resources. Our success developing products or expanding into new markets from such activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to find suitable opportunities for acquisition, investment or alliance; whether we are able to complete an acquisition, investment or alliance on terms that are satisfactory to us; the strength of the other company’s underlying technology, products and ability to execute its business strategies; any intellectual property and litigation related to these products or technology; and our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company, business, product, technology or research into our existing operations, including the ability to adequately fund acquired in-process research and development projects and to maintain adequate controls over the combined operations. Certain of these activities are subject to antitrust and competition laws, which laws could impact our ability to pursue strategic transactions and could result in mandated divestitures in the context of proposed acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in our business development activities, we may be unable to meet our financial targets and our financial performance could be adversely affected.  

For more information on recent business development activities, see Note 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

If we are unable to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a timely basis or if we experience other manufacturing or supply difficulties, our business may be adversely affected.  

The manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amounts of quality components and materials. We manufacture our products in approximately 50 manufacturing facilities around the world. We acquire our components and materials from many suppliers in various countries. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply but we cannot guarantee these efforts will always be successful. Further, while efforts are made to diversify our sources of components and materials, in certain instances we acquire components and materials from a sole supplier. For most of our components and materials for which a sole supplier is used, we believe that alternative sources of supply exist and have made a strategic determination to use a sole supplier. In very limited instances, however, we do rely upon sole supplier relationships for which no alternatives have currently been identified. Although we do carry strategic inventory and maintain insurance to mitigate the potential risk related to any related supply disruption, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective. Due to the regulatory environment in which we operate, we may be unable to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for some components or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner, and our ability to make product sales.  

Many of our products are difficult to manufacture. This is due to the complex nature of manufacturing pharmaceuticals, including biologics, and devices, as well as the strict regulatory regime governing our manufacturing operations. Variations in the manufacturing process may result in production failures which could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. A failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in a quality or safety issue of the type discussed above.  

Several of our products are manufactured at a single manufacturing facility or stored at a single storage site. Loss or damage to a manufacturing facility or storage site due to a natural disaster or otherwise could adversely affect  

10  

Table of Contents 

 our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of key products or otherwise deliver products to meet customer demand or contractual requirements which may result in a loss of revenue and other adverse business consequences. Because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing facility a third party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event we lose manufacturing capacity or products are otherwise unavailable due to natural disaster, regulatory action or otherwise.  

If we are unable to protect our patents or other proprietary rights, or if we infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be materially damaged.  

Patent and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to patent rights, both in the United States and in other countries. We cannot guarantee that pending patent applications will result in issued patents, that patents issued or licensed will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, that our patents will not be found to be invalid or that the intellectual property rights of others will not prevent the company from selling certain products or including key features in the company’s products.  

The patent position of a healthcare company is often uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Significant litigation concerning patents and products is pervasive in our industry. Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and validity of our patents on products or processes as well as allegations that our products infringe patents held by competitors or other third parties. A loss in any of these types of cases could result in a loss of patent protection or the ability to market products, which could lead to a significant loss of sales, or otherwise materially affect future results of operations. We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive positions. Third parties may know, discover or independently develop equivalent proprietary information or techniques, or they may gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public.  

Although our employees, consultants, parties to collaboration agreements and other business partners are generally subject to confidentiality or similar agreements to protect our confidential and proprietary information, these agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. To the extent that our employees, consultants, parties to collaboration agreements and other business partners use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions.  

Furthermore, our intellectual property, other proprietary technology and other sensitive company data is potentially vulnerable to loss, damage or misappropriation from system malfunction, computer viruses, unauthorized access to our data or misappropriation or misuse thereof by those with permitted access and other events. While we have invested to protect our intellectual property and other data, and continue to work diligently in this area, there can be no assurance that our precautionary measures will prevent breakdowns, breaches, cyber incidents or other events. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Misappropriation or other loss of our intellectual property from any of the foregoing would have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs.  

We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally.  

Our operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies. These risks include changes in exchange controls and other governmental actions, loss of business in government and public tenders that are held annually in many cases, increasingly complex labor environments, availability of raw materials, changes in taxation, export control restrictions, changes in or violations of U.S. or local laws, including the FCPA and the United Kingdom Bribery  

11  

Table of Contents 

 Act, dependence on a few government entities as customers, pricing restrictions, economic and political instability (including instability as it relates to the Euro and currencies in certain emerging market countries), disputes between countries, diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property, and disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic region regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest. Failure to comply with, or material changes to, the laws and regulations that affect our global operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity.  

We generate the majority of our revenue and profit outside the United States. As a result, our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or our ability to mitigate these risks. We may experience additional volatility as a result of inflationary pressures and other macroeconomic factors in certain emerging market countries. We are also exposed to changes in interest rates, and our ability to access the money markets and capital markets could be impeded if adverse liquidity market conditions occur. A discussion of the financial impact of foreign exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and the ways and extent to which we attempt to mitigate such impact is contained under the caption “Financial Instrument Market Risk” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities may have a negative impact on our operating results.  

Tax policy reform continues to be a topic of discussion in the United States. A significant change to the tax system in the United States, including changes to the taxation of international income, could have an adverse effect upon our results of operations. Because we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, we may not accurately predict the outcome of these audits, and as a result the actual outcome of these audits may have an adverse impact on our financial results. For more information on ongoing audits, see Note 15 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and subject to privacy and security laws, and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including from cyber security breaches and data leakage.  

We increasingly rely upon technology systems and infrastructure. Our technology systems are potentially vulnerable to breakdown or other interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction, unauthorized access and other events. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with both permitted and unauthorized access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data (including protected health information (PHI)) may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public, or may be permanently lost. The increasing use and evolution of technology, including cloud-based computing, creates additional opportunities for the unintentional dissemination of information, intentional destruction of confidential information stored in our systems or in non-encrypted portable media or storage devices. We could also experience a business interruption, information theft of confidential information, or reputational damage from industrial espionage attacks, malware or other cyber incidents, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers or other business partners. Additionally, we must comply with numerous federal and state laws and regulations governing the collection, dissemination, access, use, security and PHI, including The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing privacy and security regulations. While we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology and in related training, there  

12  

Table of Contents 

 can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent significant breakdowns, breaches in our systems or other cyber incidents or ensure compliance with all applicable security and privacy laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information, including PHI, on our behalf. Any such breakdown, breach, incident or failure to comply could have a material adverse effect upon our reputation, business, operations or financial condition. In addition, significant implementation issues may arise as we continue to consolidate and outsource certain computer operations and application support activities.  

If we fail to attract and retain key employees our business may suffer.  

Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, including people in senior management, sales, marketing and research positions. Competition for top talent in healthcare can be intense. Our ability to recruit and retain such talent will depend on a number of factors, including hiring practices of our competitors, compensation and benefits, work location, work environment and industry economic conditions. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain qualified employees, our business could suffer.  

We are subject to a number of pending lawsuits.  

We are a defendant in a number of pending lawsuits. In addition, we may be named as a defendant in future patent, product liability or other lawsuits. These current and future matters may result in a loss of patent protection, reduced revenue, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in these current matters. In view of these uncertainties, the outcome of these matters may result in charges in excess of any established reserves, and, to the extent available, liability insurance. We also continue to be self-insured with respect to product liability claims. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for current or future claims increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims and adverse decisions. Protracted litigation, including any adverse outcomes, may have an adverse impact on the business, operations or financial condition of the company. Even claims without merit could subject us to adverse publicity and require us to incur significant legal fees. See Note 16 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding current lawsuits.  

Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial condition.  

The company’s ability to generate cash flows from operations could be affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company’s products, in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, or deterioration in the company’s key financial ratios or credit ratings. Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our customers (including governments) to pay for our products and services, and the amount spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products and services, declining cash flows, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. These conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in our ability to produce our products. We continue to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy, which have experienced deterioration in credit and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2015, the company’s net accounts receivable from the public sector in Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy totaled $211 million. While global economic conditions have not significantly impacted the company’s ability to collect receivables, liquidity issues in certain countries have resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection of receivables and credit losses. These conditions may also impact the stability of the Euro or Yuan. For more information on accounts receivable and credit matters with respect to certain of these countries, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Credit Facilities, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

We may incur operational difficulties or be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the separation and distribution.  

On July 1, 2015, we distributed approximately 80.5% of the outstanding shares of Baxalta common stock to Baxter stockholders in connection with the separation of our biopharmaceuticals business. After giving effect to the  

13  

Table of Contents 

 distribution we retained approximately 19.5% of the outstanding Baxalta shares (the Retained Shares). In connection with the distribution, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements (including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, a long term services agreement, a manufacturing and supply agreement, an employee matters agreement, a trademark license agreement, a Galaxy license agreement, an international commercial operations agreement, a shareholders’ and registration rights agreement and certain other commercial agreements). These agreements govern the separation and distribution and the relationship between the two companies going forward, including with respect to potential tax-related losses associated with the separation and distribution and certain dispositions of the Retained Shares. They also provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time (including under the manufacturing and supply agreement pursuant to which Baxalta manufactures and sells certain products and materials to us).  

In connection with Baxalta’s entry into a merger agreement with Shire plc (Shire) on January 11, 2016, we entered into a letter agreement with Shire and Baxalta (the Letter Agreement). The Letter Agreement, as further described below, addresses certain matters related to the tax matters agreement and provides us with enhanced transaction support with respect to certain debt-for-equity and/or equity-for-equity exchanges involving the Retained Shares (the Retained Shares Transactions). See “— There could be significant liability if the separation and distribution or any Later Distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. Baxalta has indemnified us for certain potential liabilities that may arise, and such indemnification obligation is guaranteed by Shire with respect to the proposed combination of Baxalta and Shire, but Baxalta and Shire may be unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us in the future” for a more detailed discussion of the Letter Agreement.  

The separation and distribution agreement provides for indemnification obligations designed to make Baxalta financially responsible for many liabilities that may exist relating to its business activities, whether incurred prior to or after the distribution, including any pending or future litigation. It is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us and Baxalta and require us to assume responsibility for obligations allocated to Baxalta. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of these liabilities or obligations, and the indemnity rights we have under the separation and distribution agreement may not be sufficient to fully cover all of these liabilities and obligations. Even if we are successful in obtaining indemnification, we may have to bear costs temporarily. In addition, our indemnity obligations to Baxalta may be significant. These risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

The separation of Baxalta continues to involve a number of risks, including, among other things, the indemnification risks described above and the potential that management’s and our employees’ attention will be significantly diverted by the provision of transitional services. Certain of the agreements described above provide for the performance of services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time. If Baxalta is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could incur losses. These arrangements could also lead to disputes over rights to certain shared property and rights and over the allocation of costs and revenues for products and operations. Our inability to effectively manage the separation activities and related events could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the separation and distribution, and such events may adversely affect our business.  

We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation and distribution, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. Although the separation of Baxalta is expected to provide a number of benefits, including, among others, enabling management to better focus on our medical products business, providing the ability to more effectively commercialize new and existing product offerings, drive innovation across our Hospital Products and Renal businesses and allocate necessary resources to the areas presenting the highest growth potential and providing flexibility to pursue growth and investment strategies that could result in revenue acceleration, improved profitability and enhanced returns, if we fail to achieve some or all  

14  

Table of Contents 

 of the expected benefits of the separation, or if such benefits are delayed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected and the value of our stock could be adversely impacted. See “Risks Associated with Our Business — We may not achieve our long-term financial improvement goals” for additional information on risks associated with our post-separation strategies.”  

We may not be able to capture the full benefits from our retained stake in Baxalta.  

As of January 31, 2016, we owned approximately 94.3 million Baxalta shares after giving effect to a Retained Shares Transaction, as described above. As with any investment in a publicly traded company, this investment is subject to risks and uncertainties relating to Baxalta’s business, some of which are disclosed in Baxalta’s filings with the SEC (including with respect to the proposed combination of Baxalta and Shire) and risks and uncertainties relating to fluctuations in public equity markets generally.  

In addition, under the shareholders’ and registration rights agreement, we committed to vote all of the Retained Shares in proportion to the votes cast by Baxalta’s other stockholders. Although we have entered into the Letter Agreement, such commitment could adversely impact our ability to exert influence (that we may otherwise have) over Baxalta to act in a manner that we may believe best for protecting or enhancing the value of our investment.  

Additionally, any disposition of the Retained Shares by us in the public market, or the perception that such dispositions could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Baxalta shares and thereby adversely affect the value of the Retained Shares disposed of by us in any Retained Shares Transaction or adversely affect the terms and conditions of such disposition.  

There could be significant liability if the separation and distribution or subsequent distribution of Retained Shares is determined to be a taxable transaction. Baxalta has indemnified us for certain potential liabilities that may arise, and such indemnification obligation is guaranteed by Shire with respect to the proposed combination of Baxalta and Shire, but Baxalta and Shire may be unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us in the future.  

The separation and distribution, the Retained Shares Transactions and certain other uses of the Retained Shares, including a contribution to our U.S. qualified pension plan or dividend to our stockholders (collectively, the Baxter Transactions), are intended to qualify for tax-free treatment to Baxter and its stockholders under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). Completion of the separation and distribution was conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding certain issues relating to the tax-free treatment of the Baxter Transactions. Although the IRS private letter ruling is generally binding on the IRS, the continuing validity of such ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in the ruling. Completion of the distribution was also conditioned upon Baxter’s receipt of a tax opinion from KPMG LLP regarding certain aspects of the Baxalta spin-off not covered by the IRS private letter ruling. The opinion was based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by Baxter and Baxalta. If any of the factual representations or assumptions in the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion is untrue or incomplete in any material respect, if any undertaking is not complied with, or if the facts upon which the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion are based are materially different from the actual facts relating to the Baxter Transactions, the opinion or IRS private letter ruling may not be valid. Moreover, opinions of a tax advisor are not binding on the IRS. As a result, the conclusions expressed in the opinion of a tax advisor could be successfully challenged by the IRS.  

If the Baxter Transactions are determined to be taxable, Baxter and its stockholders could incur significant tax liabilities. Pursuant to the tax matters agreement, Baxalta agreed to indemnify us for certain tax-related losses incurred if Baxalta’s actions cause the separation and distribution and certain related transactions to fail to qualify for tax-free status under the applicable provisions of the Code.  

In connection with the proposed Baxalta — Shire merger, we entered into the Letter Agreement with Shire and Baxalta (as described above). Under the Letter Agreement, from and after the closing of the merger, Baxalta  

15  

Table of Contents 

 agreed to indemnify, and Shire agreed to guarantee such indemnity to, Baxter and each of its affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors and employees against certain tax-related losses attributable to or resulting from (in whole or in part) the merger as further described in the Letter Agreement. If the Baxter Transactions are determined to be taxable as a result (in whole or in part) of the merger (for example, if the merger is deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the Baxter Transactions), Baxter and its stockholders could incur significant tax liabilities. Although Baxalta and Shire may be required to indemnify Baxter under the tax matters agreement and the Letter Agreement for any such tax liabilities incurred by Baxter, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Baxalta or the guarantee thereof by Shire will be sufficient to protect us against all or a part of the amount of such liabilities, or that either Baxalta or Shire will be able to fully satisfy their respective obligations.  

Even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Baxalta or Shire any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these costs ourselves, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

 Item 2. Properties.