Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.  

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  

Description of the Company and Business Segments  

Baxter International Inc., through its subsidiaries, provides a broad portfolio of essential renal and hospital products, including home, acute and in-center dialysis; sterile IV solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition; biosurgery products and anesthetics; and pharmacy automation, software and services. The company’s global footprint and the critical nature of its products and services play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. These products are used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, doctors’ offices and by patients at home under physician supervision.  

Separation of Baxalta Incorporated  

On July 1, 2015, Baxter completed the distribution of approximately 80.5% of the outstanding common stock of its biopharmaceuticals business, Baxalta Incorporated (Baxalta), to Baxter stockholders (the Distribution). As a result of the separation, the operating results of Baxalta have been reflected as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 for additional information regarding the separation of Baxalta. Unless otherwise stated, financial results herein reflect continuing operations.  

Change in Segments  

As a result of the separation of Baxalta, Baxter has further realigned its organizational structure under two reportable segments, Renal and Hospital Products. Refer to Note 14 in Item 8 for additional information regarding the company’s segments.  

The segments and a description of their products and services are as follows:  

The Renal business provides products and services to treat end-stage renal disease, or irreversible kidney failure, and acute kidney therapies. The Renal business offers a comprehensive portfolio to meet the needs of patients across the treatment continuum, including technologies and therapies for peritoneal dialysis (PD), in-center hemodialysis (HD), home HD, continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) and additional dialysis services.  

The Hospital Products business manufactures intravenous (IV) solutions and administration sets, premixed drugs and drug-reconstitution systems, pre-filled vials and syringes for injectable drugs, IV nutrition products, infusion pumps, inhalation anesthetics, and biosurgery products. The business also provides products and services related to pharmacy compounding, drug formulation and packaging technologies.  

Baxter has approximately 50,000 employees and conducts business in over 100 countries. The company generates approximately 60% of its revenues outside the United States, and maintains approximately 50 manufacturing facilities and over 100 distribution facilities in the United States, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada.  

Financial Results  

Baxter’s global net sales totaled $10 billion in 2015, a decrease of 7% over 2014, including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of eight percentage points. International sales totaled $6 billion in 2015, a decrease of 11% compared to 2014, including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of thirteen percentage points. Sales in the United States totaled $4 billion in 2015, in line with 2014 sales.  

Baxter’s income from continuing operations for 2015 totaled $393 million, or $0.72 per diluted share, compared to $457 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, in the prior year. Income from continuing operations in 2015 included special items which resulted in a net reduction to income from continuing operations by $362 million, or $0.66  

22  

Table of Contents 

 per diluted share. Income from continuing operations in 2014 included special items which resulted in a net reduction to income from continuing operations by $245 million, or $0.45 per diluted share. The company’s special items are discussed further in the Results of Operations section below.  

Baxter’s financial results included research and development (R&D) expenses totaling $603 million in 2015, which reflects the company’s focus to balance increased investments to support a new product pipeline with efforts to optimize overall R&D spending through continuous evaluation of the portfolio.  

The company’s financial position remains strong, with operating cash flows from continuing operations totaling $1.1 billion in 2015. The company has continued to execute on its disciplined capital allocation framework, which is designed to optimize stockholder value creation through reinvestment in the businesses, dividends and opportunistic share repurchases, as well as acquisitions and other business development initiatives as discussed in Strategic Objectives below.  

Capital investments totaled $911 million in 2015 as the company continues to invest across its businesses to support future growth, including additional investments in support of new and existing product capacity expansions. The company’s investments in capital expenditures in 2015 were focused on projects that improve production efficiency and enhance manufacturing capabilities to support its strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets.  

The company also continued to return value to its stockholders in the form of dividends. During 2015, the company paid cash dividends to its shareholders totaling $910 million. Additionally, on July 1, 2015 Baxter completed the distribution of approximately 80.5% of the outstanding common stock of its biopharmaceuticals business, Baxalta, to Baxter stockholders. The distribution positioned both Baxter and Baxalta with improved focus and an ability to innovate and operate more effectively.  

Strategic Objectives  

Baxter continues to focus on several key objectives to successfully execute its long-term strategy to achieve sustainable growth and deliver enhanced stockholder value. Baxter’s diversified and broad portfolio of medical products that treat life-threatening acute or chronic conditions and its global presence are core components of the company’s strategy to achieve these objectives. After giving effect to the separation and distribution and Mr. Almeida’s appointment as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman effective as of January 1, 2016, the company is now focused on three distinct strategic factors: optimizing its core portfolio globally; operational excellence focused on streamlining the cost structure and enhancing operational efficiency; and following a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation.  

Optimizing the Core Portfolio Globally  

Baxter is in the process of evaluating and categorizing its product portfolio and the markets in which it operates to identify and invest in opportunities in which it has greatest potential to enhance returns. These opportunities include product areas across mature and emerging markets.  

Additionally, as part of its portfolio review, Baxter seeks to optimize its position in product areas where the company has a stable, profitable business model, identify and alter investments in products that have reached the end of their life cycles or with respect to which market positions have evolved unfavorably. In the course of doing so, Baxter expects to reallocate capital to more promising opportunities, as described above.  

As part of this strategy, Baxter will focus its investments to drive innovation where it has compelling opportunities to serve patients and healthcare professionals while advancing the business and will accelerate the pace in bringing these advances to market. Baxter is in the midst of launching more than 50 products over the next five years in such areas as chronic and acute renal care; smart pump technology; hospital pharmaceuticals and nutritionals; surgical sealants, and more. These comprise a mix of entirely new offerings, marked improvements on existing technologies, and the expansion of current products into new geographies.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Operational Excellence  

As part of its pursuit of improved margin performance, Baxter is working to rebase its cost structure, consistent with its emergence as a stand-alone medical products company after the Baxalta separation and distribution. It is also critically assessing optimal support levels in light of the company’s ongoing portfolio optimization efforts.  

The company intends to actively manage its cost structure to help ensure it is committing resources to where they will have the greatest value. Such high value activities include supporting innovation, building out the portfolio, expanding patient access and accelerating growth for the company’s stockholders.  

Baxter is undergoing a comprehensive review of all aspects of its operations and has already begun to implement changes in line with its business goals.  

Maintaining Disciplined and Balanced Capital Allocation  

Baxter’s capital allocation strategies include the following:  

   •    reinvest in the business, by funding opportunities that are positioned to deliver sustainable growth, support the company’s innovation efforts and improve margin performance;  

   •    return capital to stockholders through stock dividends, to meaningfully increase with earnings growth;  

   •    opportunistic share repurchases, which may involve utilization of the Retained Shares; and  

   •    identify and pursue accretive M&A opportunities that generate returns above targeted thresholds.  

Responsible Corporate Citizen  

The company strives for continued growth and profitability, while furthering its focus on acting as a responsible corporate citizen. At Baxter, sustainability means creating lasting social, environmental and economic value by addressing the needs of the company’s wide-ranging stakeholder base. Baxter’s comprehensive sustainability program is focused on areas where the company is uniquely positioned to make a positive impact. Priorities include providing employees a safe, healthy and inclusive workplace, fostering a culture that drives integrity, strengthening access to healthcare, enhancing math and science education, and driving environmental performance across the product life cycle including development, manufacturing and transport. Baxter and the Baxter International Foundation provide financial support and product donations in support of critical needs, from assisting underserved communities to providing emergency relief for countries experiencing natural disasters.  

Throughout 2015 the company continued to implement a range of water conservation strategies and facility-based energy saving initiatives. In the area of product stewardship and life cycle management, Baxter is pursuing efforts such as sustainable design and reduced packaging. Baxter is also responding to the challenges of climate change through innovative greenhouse gas emissions-reduction programs, such as shifting to less carbon-intensive energy sources in manufacturing and transport. Additionally, the company developed new long-term goals to drive continued environmental stewardship while creating healthier, more sustainable communities where Baxter employees work and live.  

Risk Factors  

The company’s ability to sustain long-term growth and successfully execute the strategies discussed above depends in part on the company’s ability to manage within an increasingly competitive and regulated environment and to address the other risk factors described in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

24  

Table of Contents 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Special Items  

The following table provides a summary of the company’s special items and the related impact by line item on the company’s results of continuing operations for 2015, 2014, and 2013.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

25  

Table of Contents 

Intangible asset amortization expense is identified as a special item to facilitate an evaluation of current and past operating performance, particularly in terms of cash returns, and is similar to how management internally assesses performance. Additional special items are identified above because they are highly variable, difficult to predict, and of a size that may substantially impact the company’s reported operations for a period. Management believes that providing the separate impact of the above items on the company’s results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States may provide a more complete understanding of the company’s operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company’s results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.  

 1   In 2015, 2014 and 2013, the company’s results were impacted by costs associated with the company’s execution of certain strategies to optimize its organization and global cost structure on a global basis. These actions included streamlining the company’s international operations, rationalizing its manufacturing facilities, reducing its general and administrative infrastructure, re-aligning certain R&D activities and cancelling certain R&D programs. The company recorded net business optimization charges (benefits) of $127 million, $(13) million, and $148 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. This included the net benefit from adjustments made in 2014 and 2013 for reserves that are no longer probable of being utilized. Refer to Note 7 in Item 8 for further information regarding these charges and related reserves.  

 2   The company’s 2015 results included a net benefit of $28 million primarily related to adjustments to the COLLEAGUE and SIGMA SPECTRUM infusion pump reserves. The company’s results in 2014 included charges, net of reversals, of $68 million primarily related to product remediation efforts for the SIGMA SPECTRUM infusion pump. In 2013, the company’s results included total charges of $17 million, primarily related to remediation efforts associated with modifications to the SIGMA Spectrum Infusion Pump in conjunction with re-filing for 510(k) clearance. Refer to Note 7 in Item 8 for further information regarding these charges and related reserves.  

 3   The company’s results in 2015 and 2014 included total charges of $73 million and $144 million, respectively, primarily related to the integration of Gambro AB (Gambro). In 2013, the company’s results included total charges of $255 million primarily related to the acquisition and integration of Gambro and losses from the derivative instruments used to hedge the anticipated foreign currency cash outflows for the planned acquisition of Gambro. Refer to Note 5 in Item 8 for further information regarding the acquisition of Gambro.  

 4   The company’s results in 2015 included a benefit of $20 million relating to the reversal of contingent consideration milestone liabilities. The company’s results in 2013 included total charges of $25 million related to upfront payment associated with the one of company’s collaboration arrangements. Refer to Note 5 in Item 8 for further information regarding the company’s acquisitions and other arrangements.  

 5   The company’s results in 2015 included income of $52 million related to a litigation settlement in which Baxter was the beneficiary. The company’s results in 2014 included income of $1 million related to third-party recoveries and reversals of prior litigation reserves. The company’s results in 2013 included income, net of expense, of $3 million related to tax and legal reserves associated with tax and VAT matters in Turkey.  

 6   The company’s results in 2014 included a charge of $3 million to account for an additional year of the Branded Prescription Drug Fee in accordance with final regulations issued in the third quarter of 2014 by the Internal Revenue Service.  

 7   The company’s results in 2015 and 2014 included costs related to the Baxalta separation of $111 million and $11 million, respectively.  

 8  The company’s 2015 results included a loss of $130 million related to its July 2015 tender offer, for certain of its outstanding indebtedness. See Note 8 in Item 8 for additional information.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Net Sales  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 declined seven percent at actual currency rates but increased one percent on a constant currency basis. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014 included $1.6 billion in Gambro sales compared to $513 million in 2013, from the September 6, 2013 acquisition date. Refer to Note 5 in Item 8 for further information regarding the Gambro acquisition.  

Foreign currency unfavorably impacted net sales by eight percentage points during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the prior year principally due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro, Australian Dollar, Columbian Peso, and certain other currencies. Foreign currency unfavorably impacted net sales by one percentage point during the year ended December 31, 2014 principally due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro, Swedish Krona and certain other currencies.  

The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency sales at the prior year’s foreign exchange rates. This measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and the current period. The company believes that the non-GAAP measure of change in net sales at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the GAAP measure of change in net sales at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding of the company’s operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company’s results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.  

Franchise Net Sales Reporting  

Effective January 1, 2015, Baxter modified its commercial franchise structure for reporting net sales. Prior period net sales have been recast to reflect the new commercial franchise structure.  

As a result of the segment realignment, the Renal segment is presented as a separate commercial franchise and includes sales of the company’s peritoneal dialysis (PD), hemodialysis (HD) and continuous renal replacement therapies (CRRT).  

The Hospital Products segment includes four commercial franchises: Fluid Systems, Integrated Pharmacy Solutions, Surgical Care and Other.  

   •    Fluid Systems includes sales of the company’s intravenous (IV) therapies, infusion pumps and administration sets.  

   •    Integrated Pharmacy Solutions includes sales of the company’s premixed and oncology drug platforms, nutrition products and pharmacy compounding services.  

27  

Table of Contents 

   •    Surgical Care includes sales of the company’s inhaled anesthesia products as well as biological products and medical devices used in surgical procedures for hemostasis, tissue sealing and adhesion prevention.  

   •    Other includes sales primarily from the company’s pharmaceutical partnering business.  

The following is a summary of net sales by commercial franchise.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net sales in the Renal segment decreased 9% in 2015 from 2014 but increased 35% in 2014 compared to 2013. Foreign currencies had an unfavorable foreign currency impact of ten percentage points in 2015 and three percentage points in 2014. Net sales in the Hospital Products segment declined 6% in 2015 but increased 4% in 2014. Foreign currencies had an unfavorable impact of seven percentage points in 2015. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, the principal drivers impacting net sales were the following:  

   •    In the Renal segment, sales increased 1% on a constant currency basis in 2015, driven by continued growth in the number of PD patients globally, which contributed approximately three percentage points, and strong demand in the acute business. These factors were partially offset by lower sales in the chronic in-center HD business, resulting from the decision to forgo certain lower margin sales opportunities, increased austerity measures in Western Europe, and competitive pressures for dialyzers. Sales growth in 2014 was impacted by a full year of Gambro revenues of $1.6 billion compared to $513 million from the September 6, 2013 acquisition date through December 31, 2013. Sales in 2014 also benefited from growth in the number of PD patients in the United States and emerging markets, which contributed approximately four percentage points, partially offset by the divestiture of Baxter’s legacy CRRT business in the first quarter of 2014.  

   •    In the Fluid Systems franchise, sales increased 6% in 2015 on a constant currency basis driven by increased sales of infusion system products, which contributed approximately four percentage points, including the relaunch of the SIGMA Spectrum infusion pump in the United States, Puerto Rico, and Canada during 2015. Additionally, sales growth in 2015 was impacted by favorable pricing and demand in the United States for the company’s IV therapies, which contributed approximately one percentage point. Sales growth in 2014 was driven by price improvements and strong United States demand for the company’s IV solutions which was offset by a decline in SIGMA Spectrum Infusion Pump sales due to suspension of sales to new accounts commencing with the receipt of an FDA Warning Letter in April 2013.  

   •    In the Integrated Pharmacy Solutions franchise, sales declined 2% in 2015 on a constant currency basis driven by decreased sales of cyclophosphamide, a generic oncology drug, following a competitor entering the U.S. market in November 2014 which contributed approximately six percentage points. Annual U.S. sales for cyclophosphamide during 2014 were approximately $450 million compared to approximately $270 million in 2015. Excluding the negative impact of foreign exchange and sales of U.S. cyclophosphamide sales in the Integrated Pharmacy Solutions franchise increased 7% driven by a two percentage point increase in revenues from pharmacy compounding services, increased demand for  

28  

Table of Contents 

     the company’s nutritional therapies, and pharmacy injectable products, including approximately $40 million in sales of Protopam, which contributed two percentage points. The company expects additional competition in 2016 in the U.S. for cyclophosphamide which is anticipated to substantially impact pricing and demand for Baxter’s product, resulting in expected sales of $180 million in 2016. Additionally, given the purchasing pattern associated with Protopam, these sales may not recur in 2016. Sales growth in 2014 was driven by increased sales and favorable pricing of cyclophosphamide in the United States and higher pharmacy compounding revenues as well as strong U.S. demand for nutritional therapies.  

   •    In the Surgical Care franchise, sales increased 3% in 2015 on a constant currency basis driven by strong global demand for the company’s portfolio of anesthetics products, which contributed three percentage points, offset partially by lower sales of select non-core biosurgery products. Sales growth in 2014 was driven by increased international sales of anesthetics products and surgical sealants TISSEL and FLOSEAL.  

   •    In the Other franchise, sales were down 5% in 2015 on a constant currency basis compared to 2014 driven by one of the company’s pharmaceutical partners electing to self-manufacture products previously contract manufactured by Baxter, which contributed five percentage point to the decline. This loss was partially offset by sales related to the company’s manufacturing and supply agreement with Baxalta. Sales in 2014 declined 2% on a constant currency basis.  

Gross Margin and Expense Ratios  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross Margin  

The special items previously identified in the above had an unfavorable impact of 1.7, 2.1 and 2.6 percentage points on the gross margin percentage in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Refer to the Special Items above for additional detail.  

In addition to the impact of the special items, the gross margin percentage in 2015 was unfavorably impacted by decreased sales of cyclophosphamide within the Hospital Products segment, partially offset by improved product mix in the Renal segment.  

In addition to the impact of the special items, the 2014 gross margin percentage was unfavorably impacted as a result of the integration of the lower margin Gambro business. Other unfavorable impacts include foreign currency, expedited freight for PD solutions, and manufacturing inefficiencies resulting from lower production volumes as the company continues to make investments to enhance its operations, quality systems and processes.  

Marketing and Administrative Expenses  

The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 2.6, 1.2 and 2.4 percentage points on the marketing and administrative expenses ratio in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Refer to the Special Items caption above for additional detail.  

Excluding the impact of the special items, the marketing and administrative expense ratio in 2015 was impacted by the benefits from the company’s business optimization actions as the company resets its cost structure, reduced its discretionary spending, and benefited from certain costs charged to Baxalta under the transition services agreement. This was partially offset by bad debt expense in emerging markets.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Excluding the impact of the special items, the marketing and administrative expenses ratio in 2014 was unfavorably impacted as a result of inclusion of Gambro’s operations and incremental freight and logistical expenses to support the strong demand for IV and PD solutions. These unfavorable impacts in 2014 were more than offset by savings from the company’s continued focus on controlling discretionary spending, lower pension expense and benefits from the company’s business optimization initiatives.  

Pension Plan Expense  

Fluctuations in pension plan expense impacted the company’s gross margin and expense ratios. Pension plan expense increased $8 million in 2015 primarily due to a decrease in the discount rate. Pension plan expense decreased $88 million from 2013 to 2014 driven by a decrease in the amortization of actuarial losses. The company currently expects pension expense to decrease in 2016 compared to 2015 by approximately $100 million due to the expected contribution of at least $600 million of Baxalta equity to the U.S. qualified plan, the impact from the change in approach for calculating the service and interest components of the net periodic benefit cost, and an increase in the discount rate. This is offset partially by changes to the mortality assumptions and a reduction in the expected rate of return on plan assets primarily for the U.S. plans.  

Business Optimization Items  

The company has implemented certain business optimization initiatives in an effort to streamline its operations, rationalize its manufacturing facilities, enhance its general and administrative infrastructure, and re-align certain R&D activities. The company estimates that business optimization activities from 2012 through 2014 have resulted in cumulative savings of approximately $0.27 per diluted share as of December 31, 2015. The company expects additional savings of approximately $0.01 per diluted share as the programs are fully implemented through 2016. The savings from these actions will impact cost of sales, marketing and administrative expenses, and R&D expenses. In 2015, the company recorded charges of $130 million and expects savings of approximately $0.16 per diluted share as the programs are fully implemented through 2017. Refer to Note 7 in Item 8 for additional information regarding the company’s business optimization initiatives.  

Research and Development  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of $14 million, $2 million and $48 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  

R&D expenses in 2015 declined as the company worked to balance increased investments with efforts to optimize its overall R&D expenditures. The increase in R&D expenses in 2014 was driven by contributions from the acquisition of Gambro and additional investments in renal therapies.  

Net Interest Expense  

Net interest expense was $126 million, $145 million, and $128 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. The decrease in 2015 was principally driven by the debt tender offer completed in July 2015 and the maturity of $600 million of 4.625% senior unsecured notes in March 2015, partially offset by higher interest on the company’s short term revolving credit facility, lower capitalized interest, and lower income from interest rate hedging activities. The increase in 2014 was driven by an increase in debt from the issuance of $3.5 billion of senior unsecured notes in June 2013, which was partially offset by the maturity of $350 million of 4.0% senior  

30  

Table of Contents 

 unsecured notes in March 2014, and the company’s interest rate swap hedging activities. Refer to Note 3 in Item 8 for a summary of the components of net interest expense for 2015, 2014 and 2013.  

Other (Income) Expense, Net  

Other (income) expense, net was income of $105 million in 2015, expense of $21 million in 2014 and income of $7 million in 2013. Current year results were driven primarily by $52 million of income related to a favorable litigation settlement, $38 million income from the sale of available-for-sale securities, and $113 million of income related to foreign currency fluctuations principally relating to intercompany receivables, payables and monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency, partially offset by a $130 million loss on extinguishment of debt related to the July 2015 debt tender offer.  

Segment EBITDA  

The company uses income from continuing operations before net interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization expense (Segment EBITDA), on a segment basis to make resource allocation decisions and assess the ongoing performance of the company’s business segments. Refer to Note 17 in Item 8 for additional details regarding the company’s segments. The following is a summary of significant factors impacting the segments’ financial results.  

Renal  

Segment EBITDA was $566 million, $666 million, and $670 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. EBITDA declined in 2015 due to unfavorable foreign currency, the impairment of certain intangible assets, investments in certain quality programs and manufacturing capabilities, partially offset by efficiencies related to the integration of the Gambro business. EBITDA in 2014 was impacted by a $1.1 billion increase in sales from Gambro as 2014 included 12 months of sales compared to four months in 2013. EBITDA in 2014 was also impacted by unfavorable foreign currency, the integration of the lower margin Gambro business, and incremental freight and logistical expenses.  

Hospital Products  

Segment EBITDA was $2.0 billion, $2.2 billion, $2.2 billion in 2015, 2014, and 2013. EBITDA in 2015 was impacted primarily by unfavorable foreign currency and decreased sales of the high margin cyclophosphamide product. This was offset by a reduction in costs incurred in 2014 related to manufacturing inefficiencies and quality costs EBITDA in 2014 benefited from an increase in net sales. This was partially offset by foreign currency and increased costs related to manufacturing inefficiencies and quality initiatives.  

Corporate and other  

Certain income and expense amounts are not allocated to a segment. These amounts are detailed in the table in Note 17 in Item 8 and primarily include net interest expense, foreign exchange fluctuations (principally relating to intercompany receivables, payables and loans denominated in foreign currency) and the majority of the foreign currency hedging activities, corporate headquarters costs, international global support, stock compensation expense, non-strategic investments and related income and expense, certain employee benefit plan costs as well as certain nonrecurring gains, losses, and other charges (such as business optimization and asset impairments).  

Income Taxes  

Effective Income Tax Rate  

The effective income tax rate for continuing operations was 8.2% in 2015, 6.7% in 2014, and 16.0% in 2013. The company anticipates that the effective income tax rate for continuing operations, calculated in accordance with GAAP, will be approximately 19.5% in 2016, excluding any impact from additional audit developments or other special items.  

The company’s effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate each year due to certain operations that are subject to tax incentives, state and local taxes and foreign taxes that are different than the U.S. federal  

31  

Table of Contents 

 statutory rate. The average foreign effective tax rate on international pre-tax income for continuing operations was 27.5%, 24.1% and 26.1% for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The company’s average foreign effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate as a result of the impact of tax incentives in Puerto Rico, Switzerland and certain other tax jurisdictions outside of the United States, as well as foreign earnings in tax jurisdictions with lower statutory rates than the United States. Adversely impacting the foreign rate were foreign loss making operations that did not receive tax benefits due to the losses resulting in, or contributing to, the need for a valuation allowance. In addition, as discussed further below, the company’s effective income tax rate can be impacted in each year by discrete factors or events. Refer to Note 15 in Item 8 for further information regarding the company’s income taxes.  

Factors adversely impacting the company’s effective tax rate in 2015 included charges related to contingent tax matters primarily related to transfer pricing and the separation of Baxalta as well as the need to record valuation allowances for some loss making entities. Partially offsetting the foregoing adverse factors was a benefit from reaching a settlement of the Puerto Rico excise tax matter as well as the U.S. R&D credit resulting from the retroactive reinstatement in December 2015 of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015.  

Factors impacting the company’s effective tax rate in 2014 included the favorable settlement of a portion of the company’s contingent tax matter related to operations in Turkey as well as a favorable shift of earnings from high to low tax jurisdictions compared to the prior period. Additionally, the effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted by increases in valuation allowances due to the tax benefit from losses that the company does not believe that it is more likely than not to realize and interest expense related to the company’s unrecognized tax benefits.  

Factors impacting the company’s effective tax rate in 2013 were gains of $53 million and $38 million for the reduction of certain contingent payment liabilities related to the prior acquisitions of Prism and ApaTech, respectively, for which there were no tax charges. Also impacting the effective tax rate was a cost of sales reduction of $37 million for an adjustment to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump reserves when the company substantially completed the recall in the United States in 2012, for which there was no tax charge. These items were offset by a change in the earnings mix from lower tax to higher tax rate jurisdictions compared to the prior year period as well as charges for contingent tax matters principally related to the company’s operations in Turkey.  

As described in Note 15 in Item 8, management intends to reinvest past earnings in several jurisdictions outside of the United States indefinitely. The company will continue to evaluate its global financial structure and U.S. cash needs as part of its completed separation into two independent, global healthcare companies.  

Income from Continuing Operations and Earnings per Diluted Share  

Income from continuing operations was $393 million in 2015, $457 million in 2014, and $315 million in 2013. Income from continuing operations per diluted share was $0.72 in 2015, $0.83 in 2014, and $0.57 in 2013. The significant factors and events causing the net changes from 2014 to 2015 and from 2013 to 2014 are discussed above. Additionally, income from continuing operations per diluted share was positively impacted by the repurchase of eight million shares in 2014 and 13 million shares in 2013. Refer to Note 12 in Item 8 for further information regarding the company’s stock repurchases.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Income from Discontinued Operations  

The following table is a summary of the operating results of Baxalta, which have been reflected as discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 for additional information regarding the separation of Baxalta. Unless otherwise stated, financial results herein reflect continuing operations.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

The company’s cash flows reflect both continuing and discontinued operations.  

Cash Flows from Operations — Continuing Operations  

Operating cash flows from continuing operations totaled $1.1 billion in 2015, $1.2 billion in 2014, and $1.3 billion in 2013. Cash flows declined in 2015 as compared to 2014 and increased in 2014 as compared to 2013 due to the factors discussed below. The cash flows from continuing operations in 2015 was impacted by a $52 million legal settlement received in the second quarter as well as $114 million of payments related to the July 2015 debt tender offer.  

Accounts Receivable  

Cash flows relating to accounts receivable increased in 2015 and decreased in 2014 as the days sales outstanding increased in 2015 and decreased in 2014. Days sales outstanding were 56.2 days, 54.2 days, and 61.1 days for 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Days sales outstanding increased in 2015 driven by slower collections in the United States. Days sales outstanding in 2014 included an unfavorable impact from the acquisition of Gambro which generally has longer days sales outstanding but was offset by an improvement in collection periods in both the U.S. and certain international markets as well as the favorable impact of foreign currency.  

Inventories  

Cash outflows for inventories declined in 2015 and increased in 2014. The following is a summary of inventories at December 31, 2015 and 2014, as well as inventory turns by segment for 2015, 2014 and 2013. Inventory turns for the year are calculated as the annualized fourth quarter cost of sales divided by the year-end inventory balance.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Segment inventory levels remained consistent from 2014 to 2015. The decrease in inventory turns in 2014 compared to 2013 was driven by higher cost of sales in 2013 compared to 2014 associated with Gambro purchase accounting adjustments and business optimization charges.  

Other  

The changes in accounts payable and accrued liabilities were an inflow of $236 million in 2015, a $37 million outflow in 2014, and an inflow of $175 million in 2013. The changes were primarily driven by the timing of payments to suppliers as well as timing of tax payments.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Payments related to the execution of the infusion pump recalls and the company’s business optimization initiatives were $112 million in 2015, $124 million in 2014, and $94 million in 2013. Refer to Note 7 in Item 8 for further information regarding the infusion pump recall and the business optimization initiatives.  

Net cash outflows in other balance sheet items were $318 million, $17 million, and $26 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. The changes during 2015 and 2014 were primarily driven by prepaid expenses and hedging activity. Additionally, cash contributions to the company’s pension plans totaled $157 million, $74 million, and $67 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.  

Cash Flows from Investing Activities — Continuing Operations  

Capital Expenditures  

Capital expenditures relating to continuing operations totaled $911 million in 2015, $925 million in 2014, and $706 million in 2013. The company’s capital expenditures in 2015 and 2014 were driven by additional investments in projects to support production of PD and IV solutions as well as expansion plans to meet the growing global demand for dialyzers. The company continues to invest in projects that enhance its cost structure and manufacturing capabilities, supports the company’s strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets and support an ongoing strategic focus on R&D.  

Acquisitions and Investments  

Net cash outflows related to acquisitions and investments were $34 million in 2015, $95 million in 2014, and $3.7 billion in 2013. The cash outflows in 2015 were driven by the acquisition of the rights to cefazolin injection in GALAXY Container (2g/100mL). The cash outflows in 2014 were driven by the acquisitions of IC Net International Ltd and certain investments. The cash outflows in 2013 included $3.6 billion for the acquisition of Gambro (net of cash acquired of $88 million). Also included was an upfront payment of $25 million associated with the company’s collaboration arrangement with JW Holdings Corporation.  

Refer to Note 5 in Item 8 for further information about these acquisitions and other arrangements.  

Divestitures and Other Investing Activities  

Net cash inflows relating to divestitures and other investing activities were $84 million in 2015, $99 million in 2014, and $31 million in 2013. Cash inflows in 2015 were driven by the sale of certain investments and other assets. Cash inflows in 2014 primarily related to proceeds from the divestiture of Baxter’s legacy CRRT business and the sale of certain investments. Cash inflows in 2013 primarily related to various sales of certain investments and other assets.  

Cash Flows from Financing Activities  

Debt Issuances, Net of Payments of Obligations  

Net cash inflows related to debt and other financing obligations totaled $2.5 billion in 2015 driven by approximately $6.9 billion in issuances of debt primarily related to the Baxalta senior notes and borrowings under the company’s revolving credit facilities. The company purchased an aggregate of approximately $2.7 billion in principal amount of its notes through two debt tender offers that closed in July 2015. Additionally, the company repaid $600 million of 4.625% senior unsecured notes that matured in March 2015 as well as the borrowings under the company’s Euro-denominated revolving credit facility. The company issued and redeemed commercial paper throughout the year, and had $300 million outstanding as of December 31, 2015.  

Net cash outflows related to debt and other financing obligations totaled $113 million in 2014 driven by approximately $1 billion in repayments, which included $500 million of floating rate senior unsecured notes that matured in December 2014 as well as $350 million of 4.0% senior unsecured notes that matured in March 2014. The company issued and redeemed commercial paper throughout the year, and had $875 million outstanding as of December 31, 2014.  

34  

Table of Contents 

In June 2013, the company issued $3.5 billion of senior unsecured notes with various maturities. Approximately $3.0 billion of the net proceeds of these debt issuances was used to finance the acquisition of Gambro in 2013 and the remainder was used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper. This issuance was partially offset by the repayment of $300 million of 1.8% senior unsecured notes that matured in March 2013 and payment of assumed Gambro debt of $221 million after completion of the acquisition in September 2013.  

The company’s debt instruments discussed above are unsecured and contain certain covenants, including restrictions relating to the company’s issuance of secured debt.  

Other Financing Activities  

In connection with the separation, Baxter transferred $2.1 billion of cash to Baxalta.  

Cash dividend payments totaled $0.9 billion in 2015, $1.1 billion in 2014, and $1.0 billion in 2013. The decrease in cash dividend payments in 2015 was primarily due to the fourth quarter dividend declining to $0.115 per share, compared to $0.52 per share for quarterly dividends beginning after May 2014.  

Proceeds and realized excess tax benefits from stock issued under employee benefit plans totaled $200 million, $369 million, and $508 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Total realized excess tax benefits, which were $7 million in 2015, $24 million in 2014, and $34 million in 2013, are presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an inflow in the financing section and an outflow in the operating section. Approximately $9 million in 2014 and $13 million in 2013 of realized excess tax benefits are recognized within operating cash flows from discontinued operations.  

As authorized by the Board of Directors, the company repurchases its stock depending on the company’s cash flows, net debt level and market conditions. The company did not repurchase any stock during 2015. The company repurchased 8 million shares for $550 million in 2014 and 13 million shares for $913 million in 2013. In July 2012, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of the company’s common stock and $0.5 billion remained available as of December 31, 2015.  

Credit Facilities, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings  

Credit Facilities  

Effective July 1, 2015, the company terminated its $1.5 billion U.S. dollar-denominated revolving credit facility and €300 million Euro-denominated revolving credit facility, which were set to mature in December 2015, in connection with the separation and distribution. In connection with such terminations, the company entered into credit agreements providing for a senior U.S. dollar-denominated revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.5 billion maturing in 2020, as well as a Euro-denominated senior revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to €200 million maturing in 2020. The company may, at its option, seek to increase the aggregate commitment under the new U.S. facility by up to an additional $750 million. The new facilities enable the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates, and contain various covenants, including a maximum net leverage ratio and maximum interest coverage ratio.  

Additionally, as of December 31, 2015, the company had a third revolving credit facility, with a maximum capacity of $1.8 billion, which was scheduled to mature on the earlier of March 28, 2016 and the date on which commitments under the facility have been reduced to zero or terminated in whole pursuant to the terms thereof. On January 27, 2016, Baxter exchanged approximately 37.6 million shares of Baxalta common stock for the $1.45 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding under this revolving credit facility. This exchange extinguished all outstanding indebtedness under the facility. In connection with the exchange of Baxalta common stock, Baxter will recognize approximately $1.2 billion of realized gains in the first quarter of 2016.  

As of December 31, 2015, prior to giving effect to the termination of the company’s $1.8 billion revolving credit facility, the company’s U.S. dollar-denominated revolving credit facilities and Euro-denominated senior revolving credit facility had a maximum capacity of $3.3 billion and approximately $220 million, respectively.  

35  

Table of Contents 

 As of December 31, 2015, the company was in compliance with the financial covenants in these agreements. During 2015, the company borrowed $1.5 billion which is outstanding as of December 31, 2015, under its $1.8 billion U.S. dollar-denominated revolving credit facility at a weighted average interest rate of 1.41%. The non-performance of any financial institution supporting either of its remaining credit facilities (after giving effect to the termination of the company’s $1.8 billion revolving credit facility) would reduce the maximum capacity of such facilities by each institution’s respective commitment thereunder.  

The company also maintains other credit arrangements, as described in Note 8 in Item 8.  

Access to Capital  

The company intends to fund short-term and long-term obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from operations or by issuing additional debt. The company had $2.2 billion of cash and equivalents as of December 31, 2015, with adequate cash available to meet operating requirements in each jurisdiction in which the company operates. The company invests its excess cash in certificates of deposit and money market funds, and diversifies the concentration of cash among different financial institutions.  

The company’s ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company’s products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, deterioration in the company’s key financial ratios or credit ratings or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. However, the company believes it has sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support the company’s growth objectives.  

Baxter held an investment in Baxalta common stock with a fair value of approximately $5.1 billion as of December 31, 2015 (prior to giving effect to the exchange described above in “Credit Facilities”). This ownership interest provides the rights to dividends declared on Baxalta’s common stock, including a $0.07 per share cash dividend paid on January 4, 2016. As discussed above in “Credit Facilities,” on January 27, 2016, Baxter exchanged 37,573,040 shares of Baxalta common stock for all of the indebtedness outstanding under its prior $1.8 billion revolving credit facility. After giving effect to this exchange, Baxter has 94,329,679 remaining Baxalta shares. Baxter currently intends to use such shares (or proceeds therefrom) to repurchase or retire additional indebtedness and make contributions to the company’s U.S. qualified pension plan. The company may also conduct stock for stock exchanges and make stock distributions. On January 11, 2016, Baxter entered into a letter agreement with Baxalta and Shire plc (Shire) in connection with Shire’s planned acquisition of Baxalta. The letter agreement, among other things, addresses certain aspects of the tax matters agreement and modifies certain aspects of the shareholder’s and registration rights agreement, each entered into in connection with the separation and distribution. In accordance with the terms of the shareholder’s and registration rights agreement (as amended by the letter agreement), Baxter may cause Baxalta to register the shares of Baxalta common stock held by Baxter under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in accordance with the terms thereof, and provide certain support in connection with the planned dispositions of such shares. Baxter caused Baxalta to register the public offering of the 37,573,040 Baxalta shares that Baxter exchanged as described above in accordance with the terms of the related agreements. In 2016, the company will look to further deploy the remaining Baxalta equity through a combination of additional debt for equity and equity for equity exchanges as well as make a contribution of at least $600 million of equity to its U.S. qualified pension plan subject to final regulatory approval.  

The company continues to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy, which have experienced deterioration in credit and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2015, the company’s net accounts receivable from the public sector in Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy totaled $211 million.  

While these economic conditions have not significantly impacted the company’s ability to collect receivables, global economic conditions and liquidity issues in certain countries have resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection of receivables and credit losses.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Credit Ratings  

The company’s credit ratings at December 31, 2015 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In May 2015, Moody’s downgraded Baxter’s senior debt from A3 to Baa2. Fitch also downgraded Baxter’s senior debt from A to BBB+ as well as Baxter’s short-term debt from F1 to F2. The downgrades reflect the impact of the Baxalta separation as detailed in Note 2 in Item 8.  

If Baxter’s credit ratings or outlooks were to be further downgraded, the company’s financing costs related to its credit arrangements and any future debt issuances could be unfavorably impacted. However, any future credit rating downgrade or change in outlook would not affect the company’s ability to draw on its credit facilities, and would not result in an acceleration of the scheduled maturities of any of the company’s outstanding debt, unless, with respect to certain debt instruments, preceded by a change in control of the company.  

Contractual Obligations  

As of December 31, 2015, the company had contractual obligations, excluding accounts payable and accrued liabilities (other than the current portion of unrecognized tax benefits), payable or maturing in the following periods.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 1   Interest payments on debt and capital lease obligations are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2015. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates, foreign currency fluctuations or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2015. Refer to Note 8 and Note 9 in Item 8 for further discussion regarding the company’s debt instruments and related interest rate agreements outstanding at December 31, 2015.  

 2   The primary components of other long-term liabilities in the company’s consolidated balance sheet are liabilities relating to pension and other postemployment benefit plans, litigation, foreign currency hedges, and certain income tax-related liabilities. The company projected the timing of the future cash payments based on contractual maturity dates (where applicable) and estimates of the timing of payments (for liabilities with no contractual maturity dates). The actual timing of payments could differ from the estimates.  

37  

Table of Contents 

The company contributed $157 million, $74 million, and $67 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Most of the company’s plans are funded. The timing of funding in the future is uncertain and is dependent on future movements in interest rates and investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Therefore, the table above excludes pension plan cash outflows. The pension plan balance included in other long-term liabilities (and excluded from the table above) totaled $1.7 billion at December 31, 2015.  

 3   Includes the company’s significant contractual unconditional purchase obligations. For cancelable agreements, any penalty due upon cancellation is included. These commitments do not exceed the company’s projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Examples include firm commitments for raw material purchases, utility agreements and service contracts.  

 4   Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions, the long-term liability relating to uncertain tax positions of $112 million at December 31, 2015 has been excluded from the table above.  

 5   Excludes contingent liabilities. These amounts have been excluded from the contractual obligations above due to uncertainty regarding the timing and amount of future payments. Refer to Notes 10 and 11 in Item 8 for additional information regarding these commitments.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Baxter periodically enters into off-balance sheet arrangements. Certain contingencies arise in the normal course of business, and are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet in accordance with GAAP (such as contingent joint development and commercialization arrangement payments). Also, upon resolution of uncertainties, the company may incur charges in excess of presently established liabilities for certain matters (such as contractual indemnifications). For a discussion of the company’s significant off-balance sheet arrangements, refer to Note 10 in Item 8 for information regarding receivable securitizations, Note 11 in Item 8 regarding joint development and commercialization arrangements and indemnifications, and Note 16 in Item 8 regarding legal contingencies.  

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK  

The company operates on a global basis and is exposed to the risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. The company’s hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company’s judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. Refer to Note 9 and Note 10 in Item 8 for further information regarding the company’s financial instruments and hedging strategies.  

Currency Risk  

The company is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to revenues generated outside of the United States denominated in the Euro, British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Korean Won, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen, Columbian Peso, Brazilian Real, Swedish Krona, and Mexican Peso. The company manages its foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows the company to net exposures and take advantage of any natural offsets. In addition, the company uses derivative and nonderivative financial instruments to further reduce the net exposure to foreign exchange. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders’ equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. Financial market and currency volatility may limit the company’s ability to cost-effectively hedge these exposures.  

The company may use options, forwards and cross-currency swaps to hedge the foreign exchange risk to earnings relating to forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies and recognized assets and liabilities. The maximum term over which the company has cash flow hedge contracts in place related to forecasted transactions at December 31, 2015 is 12 months. The company also enters into derivative instruments to hedge certain intercompany and third-party receivables and payables and debt denominated in foreign currencies.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Currency restrictions enacted in Venezuela require Baxter to obtain approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan Bolivars for U.S. Dollars and require such exchange to be made at the official exchange rate established by the government. Since January 1, 2010, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy under GAAP and as a result, the functional currency of the company’s subsidiary in Venezuela is the U.S. Dollar. The devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar and designation of Venezuela as highly inflationary did not have a material impact on the financial results of the company. As of December 31, 2015, the company’s subsidiary in Venezuela had net assets of $43 million denominated in the Venezuelan Bolivar. In 2015, net sales in Venezuela represented less than 1% of Baxter’s total net sales.  

As part of its risk-management program, the company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in the fair value of its foreign exchange instruments relating to hypothetical and reasonably possible near-term movements in foreign exchange rates.  

A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2015, while not predictive in nature, indicated that if the U.S. Dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currencies, on a net-of-tax basis, the net asset balance of $5 million with respect to those contracts would decrease by $17 million, resulting in a net liability position. A similar analysis performed with respect to option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2014 indicated that, on a net-of-tax basis, the net asset balance of $12 million would decrease by $72 million.  

The sensitivity analysis model recalculates the fair value of the foreign exchange option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2015 by replacing the actual exchange rates at December 31, 2015 with exchange rates that are 10% weaker compared to the actual exchange rates for each applicable currency. All other factors are held constant. These sensitivity analyses disregard the possibility that currency exchange rates can move in opposite directions and that gains from one currency may or may not be offset by losses from another currency. The analyses also disregard the offsetting change in value of the underlying hedged transactions and balances.  

Interest Rate and Other Risks  

The company is also exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. The company’s policy is to manage interest costs using a mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt that the company believes is appropriate. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient manner, the company periodically enters into interest rate swaps in which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. The company also periodically uses forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to hedge the risk to earnings associated with fluctuations in interest rates relating to anticipated issuances of term debt.  

As part of its risk management program, the company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential gains and losses in earnings relating to hypothetical movements in interest rates. A 29 basis-point increase in interest rates (approximately 10% of the company’s weighted-average interest rate during 2015) affecting the company’s financial instruments, including debt obligations and related derivatives, would have an immaterial effect on the company’s 2015, 2014 and 2013 earnings and on the fair value of the company’s fixed-rate debt as of the end of each fiscal year.  

As discussed in Note 10 in Item 8, the fair values of the company’s long-term litigation liabilities were computed by discounting the expected cash flows based on currently available information. A 10% movement in the assumed discount rate would have an immaterial effect on the fair values of those liabilities.  

With respect to the company’s investments in affiliates, the company believes any reasonably possible near-term losses in earnings, cash flows and fair values would not be material to the company’s consolidated financial position.  

CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

Refer to Note 1 in Item 8 for information on changes in accounting standards.  

39  

Table of Contents 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. A summary of the company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 in Item 8. Certain of the company’s accounting policies are considered critical because these policies are the most important to the depiction of the company’s financial statements and require significant, difficult or complex judgments by the company, often requiring the use of estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results that differ from the company’s estimates could have an unfavorable effect on the company’s results of operations and financial position. There have been no significant changes in the company’s application of its critical accounting policies during 2015. The company’s critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The following is a summary of accounting policies that the company considers critical to the consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition and Related Provisions and Allowances  

The company’s policy is to recognize revenues from product sales and services when earned. Specifically, revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred (or services have been rendered), the price is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For product sales, revenue is not recognized until title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. The shipping terms for the majority of the company’s revenue arrangements are FOB destination. The company sometimes enters into arrangements in which it commits to delivering multiple products or services to its customers. In these cases, total arrangement consideration is allocated to the deliverables based on their relative selling prices. Then the allocated consideration is recognized as revenue in accordance with the principles described above. Selling prices are determined by applying a selling price hierarchy. Selling prices are determined using vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), if it exists. Otherwise, selling prices are determined using third party evidence (TPE). If neither VSOE nor TPE is available, the company uses its best estimate of selling prices.  

Provisions for rebates, chargebacks to wholesalers and distributors, returns, and discounts (collectively, “sales deductions”) are provided for at the time the related sales are recorded, and are reflected as a reduction of sales. The sales deductions are based primarily on estimates of the amounts earned or that will be claimed on such sales.  

The company periodically and systematically evaluates the collectability of accounts receivable and determines the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts. In determining the amount of the reserve, the company considers historical credit losses, the past-due status of receivables, payment history and other customer-specific information, and any other relevant factors or considerations.  

The company also provides for the estimated costs that may be incurred under its warranty programs when the cost is both probable and reasonably estimable, which is at the time the related revenue is recognized. The cost is determined based on actual company experience for the same or similar products as well as other relevant information. Estimates of future costs under the company’s warranty programs could change based on developments in the future. The company is not able to estimate the probability or amount of any future developments that could impact the reserves, but believes presently established reserves are adequate.  

Pension and Other Postemployment Benefit (OPEB) Plans  

The company provides pension and other postemployment benefits to certain of its employees. These employee benefit expenses are reported in the same line items in the consolidated income statement as the applicable employee’s compensation expense. The valuation of the funded status and net periodic benefit cost for the plans is calculated using actuarial assumptions. These assumptions are reviewed annually, and revised if appropriate. The significant assumptions include the following:  

   •    interest rates used to discount pension and OPEB plan liabilities;  

   •    the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets;  

40  

Table of Contents 

   •    rates of increases in employee compensation (used in estimating liabilities);  

   •    anticipated future healthcare trend rates (used in estimating the OPEB plan liability); and  

   •    other assumptions involving demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover (used in estimating liabilities).  

Selecting assumptions involves an analysis of both short-term and long-term historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of the valuation (also called the measurement date). The use of different assumptions would result in different measures of the funded status and net cost. Actual results in the future could differ from expected results. The company is not able to estimate the probability of actual results differing from expected results, but believes its assumptions are appropriate.  

The company’s key assumptions are listed in Note 13 in Item 8. The most critical assumptions relate to the plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees, because these plans are the most significant to the company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Discount Rate Assumption  

Effective for the December 31, 2015 measurement date, the company utilized discount rates of 4.36% and 4.12% to measure its benefit obligations for the U.S. and Puerto Rico pension plans and OPEB plan, respectively. The company used a broad population of approximately 200 Aa-rated corporate bonds as of December 31, 2015 to determine the discount rate assumption. All bonds were denominated in U.S. Dollars, with a minimum amount outstanding of $50 million. This population of bonds was narrowed from a broader universe of approximately 700 Moody’s Aa rated, non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds by eliminating the top 10th percentile and bottom 40th percentile to adjust for any pricing anomalies and to represent the bonds Baxter would most likely select if it were to actually annuitize its pension and OPEB plan liabilities. This portfolio of bonds was used to generate a yield curve and associated spot rate curve to discount the projected benefit payments for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve.  

For plans in Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom and the Eurozone, the company uses a method essentially the same as that described for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. For the company’s other international plans, the discount rate is generally determined by reviewing country- and region-specific government and corporate bond interest rates.  

To understand the impact of changes in discount rates on pension and OPEB plan cost, the company performs a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point (i.e., one-half of one percent) increase in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would decrease by approximately $42 million, and for each 50 basis point decrease in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would increase by approximately $50 million.  

Effective January 1, 2016, the company will change its approach used to calculate the service and interest components of net periodic benefit cost. Previously, the company calculated the service and interest components utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation. The company has elected an alternative approach that utilizes a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to their underlying projected cash flows. The company believes this approach provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows and their corresponding spot rates. The company will account for this change prospectively as a change in estimate. As a result of this change, in 2016 the company estimates that the service cost and interest cost for these plans will be reduced by approximately $40 million in 2016 compared to the previous method.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Return on Plan Assets Assumption  

In measuring the net periodic cost for 2015, the company used a long-term expected rate of return of 7.25% for the pension plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees. This assumption will decrease to 7.00% in 2016. This assumption is not applicable to the company’s OPEB plan because it is not funded.  

The company establishes the long-term asset return assumption based on a review of historical compound average asset returns, both company-specific and relating to the broad market (based on the company’s asset allocation), as well as an analysis of current market and economic information and future expectations. The current asset return assumption is supported by historical market experience for both the company’s actual and targeted asset allocation. In calculating net pension cost, the expected return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is a component of the total net unrecognized gain or loss and is subject to amortization in the future.  

To understand the impact of changes in the expected asset return assumption on net cost, the company performs a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point increase (decrease) in the asset return assumption, global pre-tax pension plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $18 million.  

Other Assumptions  

For the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans, beginning with the December 31, 2014 measurement date, the company used the RP 2014 combined mortality table adjusted to reflect Baxter specific past experience with improvements projected using the generational BB-2D projection scale adjusted to a long term improvement of 0.8% in 2027. At the December 31, 2015 measurement date, the company refined its Baxter specific past experience adjustment which will result in approximately $15 million of incremental expense in 2016. For all other pension plans, the company utilized country- and region-specific mortality tables to calculate the plans’ benefit obligations. The company periodically analyzes and updates its assumptions concerning demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover, considering historical experience as well as anticipated future trends.  

The assumptions relating to employee compensation increases and future healthcare costs are based on historical experience, market trends, and anticipated future company actions. Refer to Note 13 in Item 8 for information regarding the sensitivity of the OPEB plan obligation and the total of the service and interest cost components of OPEB plan cost to potential changes in future healthcare trend rates.  

Legal Contingencies  

The company is involved in product liability, patent, commercial, regulatory and other legal proceedings that arise in the normal course of business. Refer to Note 16 f in Item 8 or further information. The company records a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate, the minimum amount in the range is accrued. If a loss is not probable or a probable loss cannot be reasonably estimated, no liability is recorded. The company has established reserves for certain of its legal matters. The company is not able to estimate the amount or range of any loss for certain of the legal contingencies for which there is no reserve or additional loss for matters already reserved. At December 31, 2015, total legal liabilities were $29 million.  

The company’s loss estimates are generally developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based on analyses of potential outcomes. With respect to the recording of any insurance recoveries, after completing the assessment and accounting for the company’s legal contingencies, the company separately and independently analyzes its insurance coverage and records any insurance recoveries that are probable of occurring at the gross amount that is expected to be collected. In performing the assessment, the company reviews available information, including historical company-specific and market collection experience for similar claims, current facts and circumstances pertaining to the particular insurance claim, the financial viability of the applicable insurance company or companies, and other relevant information.  

42  

Table of Contents 

While the liability of the company in connection with certain claims cannot be estimated and although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a significant impact on the company’s results of operations and cash flows for that period, the outcome of these legal proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated financial position. While the company believes it has valid defenses in these matters, litigation is inherently uncertain, excessive verdicts do occur, and the company may in the future incur material judgments or enter into material settlements of claims.  

Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances and Reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions  

The company maintains valuation allowances unless it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in the company’s tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, the company evaluates factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carryback and carryforward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. The realizability assessments made at a given balance sheet date are subject to change in the future, particularly if earnings of a subsidiary are significantly higher or lower than expected, or if the company takes operational or tax planning actions that could impact the future taxable earnings of a subsidiary.  

In the normal course of business, the company is audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and is periodically challenged regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges relate to the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The company believes its tax positions comply with applicable tax law and the company intends to defend its positions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the company records reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with GAAP, based on the technical support for the positions, the company’s past audit experience with similar situations, and potential interest and penalties related to the matters. The company’s results of operations and effective tax rate in a given period could be impacted if, upon final resolution with taxing authorities, the company prevailed in positions for which reserves have been established, or was required to pay amounts in excess of established reserves.  

Valuation of Intangible Assets, Including IPR&D  

The company acquires intangible assets and records them at fair value. Valuations are generally completed for business acquisitions using a discounted cash flow analysis, incorporating the stage of completion and consideration of market participant assumptions. The most significant estimates and assumptions inherent in a discounted cash flow analysis include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the discount rate used to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows, the assessment of the asset’s life cycle, and the competitive and other trends impacting the asset, including consideration of technical, legal, regulatory, economic and other factors. Each of these factors and assumptions can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset.  

Acquired in-process R&D (IPR&D) is the value assigned to acquired technology or products under development which have not received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use.  

Acquired IPR&D included in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Upon receipt of regulatory approval of the related technology or product, the indefinite-lived intangible asset is then accounted for as a finite-lived intangible asset and amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. If the R&D project is abandoned, the indefinite-lived asset is charged to expense.  

R&D acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately. For such transactions, payments made to third parties on or after regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related asset, and are classified as intangible assets.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Due to the inherent uncertainty associated with R&D projects, there is no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from the underlying assumptions used to prepare discounted cash flow analyses, nor that the R&D project will result in a successful commercial product.  

Impairment of Assets  

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment reviews annually, and whenever indicators of impairment exist. The company assesses goodwill for impairment based on its reporting units, which are the same as its operating segments, Renal and Hospital Products. As of December 31, 2015, the date of the company’s annual impairment review, the fair value of the company’s reporting units were in excess of their carrying values. The company performs a qualitative assessment of other indefinite-lived intangible assets, including IPR&D, at least annually. If the intangible asset is determined to be more likely than not impaired as a result of the assessment, the company completes a quantitative impairment test. Intangible assets with definite lives and other long-lived assets (such as fixed assets) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Refer to Note 1 in Item 8 for further information. The company’s impairment reviews are based on an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings, and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company’s business plans and when applicable, market participant’s views of the company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair values of the assets, and potentially result in different impacts to the company’s results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company’s estimates.  

Stock-Based Compensation Plans  

Stock-based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and the cost is recognized as expense ratably over the substantive vesting period. Determining the appropriate fair value model to use requires judgment. Determining the assumptions that enter into the model is highly subjective and also requires judgment. The company’s stock compensation costs primarily relate to awards of stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance share units (PSUs). The company uses the Black-Scholes model for estimating the fair value of stock options, and significant assumptions include long-term projections regarding stock price volatility, employee exercise, post-vesting termination and pre-vesting forfeiture behaviors, interest rates and dividend yields. The company’s expected volatility assumption is based on a weighted-average of the historical volatility of Baxter’s stock and the implied volatility from traded options on Baxter’s stock, with historical volatility more heavily weighted. The expected life assumption is primarily based on the vesting terms of the stock option, historical employee exercise patterns and employee post-vesting termination behavior. The risk-free interest rate for the expected life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The dividend yield reflects historical experience as well as future expectations over the expected life of the option.  

The fair value of RSUs is equal to the quoted price of the company’s common stock on the date of grant.  

Current outstanding PSUs are based either on return on invested capital (ROIC) or are based upon Baxter stock performance relative to the company’s peer group. The vesting condition for such PSUs based on return on invested capital (ROIC) have annual performance targets set at the beginning of the year for each tranche of the award during the three-year service period. The holder of the ROIC PSUs is entitled to receive a number of shares of common stock equal to a percentage, ranging from 0% to 200%, of the ROIC PSUs granted, depending on the actual results compared to the annual performance targets. Compensation cost for the ROIC PSUs is measured based on the fair value of the awards on the date that the specific vesting terms for each tranche of the award are established. The fair value of the awards is determined based on the quoted price of the company’s stock on the grant date for each tranche of the award. The compensation cost for ROIC PSUs is adjusted at each reporting date to reflect the estimated probability of achieving the vesting condition. The probability of achieving  

44  

Table of Contents 

 the ROIC vesting condition has not materially changed during the year ended December 31, 2015. The vesting condition for PSUs based on Baxter stock performance relative to the company’s peer group is fair valued using a Monte Carlo model. A Monte Carlo model uses stock price volatility and other variables to estimate the probability of satisfying the market conditions and the resulting fair value of the award. Refer to Note 12 in Item 8 for additional information.  

CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS  

In July 2014, the company received a Warning Letter from FDA primarily relating to processes implemented to ensure the absence of particulate matter or leaks associated with products manufactured at the company’s Aibonito, Puerto Rico, plant. In October 2015, FDA lifted the Warning Letter.  

In January 2014, the company received a Warning Letter from FDA primarily directed to quality systems for the company’s Round Lake, Illinois, facility, particularly in that facility’s capacity as a specification developer for certain of the company’s medical devices. The company received a separate Warning letter in December 2013 that included observations related to the company’s ambulatory infuser business in Irvine, California, which previously had been subject to agency action.  

In June 2013, the company received a Warning Letter from FDA regarding operations and processes at its North Cove, North Carolina and Jayuya, Puerto Rico facilities and in November 2015 attended a Regulatory Meeting with FDA concerning the Jayuya facility. The Warning Letter addresses observations related to Current Good Manufacturing Practice (CGMP) violations at the two facilities.  

In June 2010, the company received a Warning Letter from FDA in connection with an inspection of its McGaw Park, Illinois facility, which previously supported the Renal franchise. The company’s Round Lake facility now provides the related capacity for the Renal franchise. The Warning Letter pertains to the processes by which the company analyzes and addresses product complaints through corrective and preventative action, and reports relevant information to FDA.  

On October 9, 2014, the company had a Regulatory Meeting with FDA to discuss the Warning Letters described above. At the meeting, the company agreed to work closely with FDA to provide regular updates on its progress to meet all requirements and resolve all matters identified in the Warning Letters described above.  

Please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of regulatory matters and how they may impact the company.  

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  

This annual report includes forward-looking statements. Use of the words “may,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “believes,” “estimates,” “projects,” “potential,” “expects,” “plans,” “seeks,” “intends,” “evaluates,” “pursues,” “anticipates,” “continues,” “designs,” “impacts,” “affects,” “forecasts,” “target,” “outlook,” “initiative,” “objective,” “designed,” “priorities,” “goal,” or the negative of those words or other similar expressions is intended to identify forward-looking statements that represent our current judgment about possible future events. These forward-looking statements may include statements with respect to accounting estimates and assumptions, litigation-related matters including outcomes, future regulatory filings and the company’s R&D pipeline, strategic objectives, credit exposure to foreign governments, potential developments with respect to credit ratings, investment of foreign earnings, estimates of liabilities including those related to uncertain tax positions, contingent payments, future pension plan contributions, costs, discount rates and rates of return, the company’s exposure to financial market volatility and foreign currency and interest rate risks, the impact of the recent separation of the biopharmaceuticals and medical products businesses, the impact of competition, future sales growth, business development activities, business optimization initiatives, cost saving initiatives, future capital and R&D expenditures, future debt issuances, manufacturing expansion, the sufficiency of the company’s facilities and financial flexibility, the adequacy of credit facilities, tax provisions and reserves, the effective tax rate and all other statements that do not relate to historical facts.  

45  

Table of Contents 

These forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made in light of the company’s experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, and expected future developments as well as other factors that the company believes are appropriate in the circumstances. While these statements represent the company’s current judgment on what the future may hold, and the company believes these judgments are reasonable, these statements are not guarantees of any events or financial results. Whether actual future results and developments will conform to expectations and predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following factors, many of which are beyond our control:  

   •    failure to achieve our long-term financial improvement goals;  

   •    demand for and market acceptance risks for and competitive pressures related to new and existing products;  

   •    product development risks, including satisfactory clinical performance, the ability to manufacture at appropriate scale, and the general unpredictability associated with the product development cycle;  

   •    product quality or patient safety issues, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, sanctions, seizures, litigation, or declining sales;  

   •    future actions of FDA, EMA or any other regulatory body or government authority that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sale or result in seizures, recalls, injunctions, monetary sanctions or criminal or civil liabilities;  

   •    failures with respect to the company’s compliance programs;  

   •    future actions of third parties, including third-party payers, as healthcare reform and other similar measures are implemented in the United States and globally;  

   •    the impact of U.S. healthcare reform and other similar actions undertaken by foreign governments with respect to pricing, reimbursement, taxation and rebate policies;  

   •    additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures in the United States or globally, which may affect pricing, reimbursement, taxation and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company’s business;  

   •    the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies;  

   •    global regulatory, trade and tax policies;  

   •    the company’s ability to identify business development and growth opportunities and to successfully execute on business development strategies;  

   •    the company’s ability to finance and develop new products or enhancements internally, on commercially acceptable terms or at all;  

   •    the company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its joint product development and commercialization arrangements, governmental collaborations and other business development activities;  

   •    the availability and pricing of acceptable raw materials and component supply;  

   •    inability to create additional production capacity in a timely manner or the occurrence of other manufacturing or supply difficulties;  

   •    the company’s ability to achieve the intended results associated with the recent separation of its biopharmaceuticals and medical products businesses or targeted margin improvements;  

   •    the company’s ability to dispose of the Retained Shares in a tax-efficient manner;  

   •    the impact of any future tax liability with respect to the separation and distribution, including with respect to disposition of the Retained Shares;  

46  

Table of Contents 

   •    any failure by Baxalta or Shire to satisfy its obligation under the separation agreements, including the tax matters agreement, or the Letter Agreement;  

   •    the ability to protect or enforce the company’s owned or in-licensed patent or other proprietary rights (including trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how) or patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company’s manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology;  

   •    the impact of global economic conditions on the company and its customers and suppliers, including foreign governments in certain countries in which the company operates;  

   •    fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates;  

   •    any changes in law concerning the taxation of income, including income earned outside the United States;  

   •    actions by tax authorities in connection with ongoing tax audits;  

   •    breaches or failures of the company’s information technology systems;  

   •    loss of key employees or inability to identify and recruit new employees;  

   •    the outcome of pending or future litigation;  

   •    the adequacy of the company’s cash flows from operations to meet its ongoing cash obligations and fund its investment program; and  

   •    other factors identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including those factors described in Item 1A and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, all of which are available on the company’s website.  

Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.