Item 1A. Risk Factors  

 Berkshire is subject to certain risks in its business operations which are described below. Careful consideration of these risks should be made before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Berkshire. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations.  

The Company’s tolerance for risk in its insurance businesses may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings.  

 Berkshire believes it has been and continues to be willing to assume more risk than any other insurer has knowingly assumed. Berkshire estimates it could incur a probable maximum loss of $6.5 billion from a single loss event and does so willingly if properly paid for the risk assumed. Berkshire has also written some coverages for losses arising from acts of terrorism. In all cases, however, Berkshire attempts to avoid writing groups of policies from which losses might seriously aggregate. However, it is possible that despite Berkshire’s efforts, losses may aggregate in ways that were not anticipated. The tolerance for huge losses may in certain future periods result in such losses, which may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings.  

The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings.  

 In the insurance business, premiums are charged today for promises to pay covered losses in the future. The principal cost associated with premium revenue is claims. However, it will literally take decades before all losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date will be reported and settled. Although Berkshire believes that loss reserve balances are adequate to cover losses, Berkshire will not truly know whether the premiums charged for the coverages provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Except for certain product lines, Berkshire’s objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long-term. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Reserve estimates are large ($56 billion at December 31, 2007) so adjustments to reserve estimates can have a material effect on periodic reported earnings.  

Insurance subsidiaries’ investments are unusually concentrated.  

 Compared to other insurers, Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries keep an unusually high percentage of their assets in common stocks and diversify their portfolios far less than is conventional. A significant decline in the general stock market or in the price of major investments may produce a large decrease in Berkshire’s shareholders’ equity and under certain circumstances may require the recognition of such losses in the statement of earnings. Decreases in values of equity investments could have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s book value per share.  

Berkshire is dependent for its investment and capital allocation decisions on a few key people.  

 Investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made for Berkshire’s businesses by Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO, age 77, in consultation with Charles T. Munger, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, age 84. If for any reason the services of Berkshire’s key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable to Berkshire, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company. However, Berkshire’s Board of Directors has identified three current Berkshire subsidiary managers who are capable of being CEO. Berkshire’s Board has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a replacement be needed currently. The Board continually monitors this matter and could alter its current view in the future. Management believes that the Board’s succession plan, together with the outstanding managers running Berkshire’s numerous and highly diversified operating units helps to mitigate this risk.  

The past growth rate in Berkshire stock is not an indication of future results.  

 In the years since Berkshire’s present management acquired control of Berkshire, its book value per share has grown at a highly satisfactory rate. Because of the large size of Berkshire’s capital base (shareholders’ equity of approximately $120.7 billion as of December 31, 2007), Berkshire’s book value per share very likely will not increase in the future at a rate even close to its past rate.  

19   
Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)  

Competition  

 Each of Berkshire’s operating businesses faces intense competitive pressures within its respective markets. Such competition may come from domestic operators and international operators. While Berkshire’s businesses are managed with the objective of achieving sustainable growth over the long-term through developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market and technology changes, may erode competitive advantages or prevent their strengthening. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether the operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages.  

Berkshire’s Class B common stock is not convertible and has a lower vote and stock price than its Class A common stock.  

 Each share of Class A common stock is convertible into thirty shares of Class B common stock, but shares of Class B common stock are not convertible into shares of Class A common stock or any other security. Although a share of Class B common stock may sell below one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of Class A common stock, it is unlikely that a share of Class B common stock will sell significantly above one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of Class A common stock because higher prices than that would cause arbitrage activity to ensue. Also, holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote, but holders of Class B common stock are entitled to only one two-hundredth of a vote for each Class B share on matters submitted to a vote of Berkshire stockholders.  

Unfavorable economic and political conditions in international markets could hurt Berkshire’s businesses.  

 Historically, Berkshire has derived a relatively small amount of its revenues and earnings from international markets. In recent years, international business was concentrated in the insurance businesses, which are conducted primarily in Western Europe, Japan, Australia and other regions where relatively stable political and economic conditions have prevailed. As a result of Berkshire’s recent business acquisitions including 80% of IMC on July 5, 2006, Berkshire may be subject to increased risks from unstable political conditions and civil unrest in international markets. IMC’s headquarters are located in Israel and substantial business operations are conducted in Israel and South Korea.  

 Unstable economic and political conditions, civil unrest and political activism, particularly in the Middle East, could adversely impact Berkshire’s businesses, including internationally based businesses. Further, terrorism activities deriving from unstable conditions could produce significant losses to Berkshire’s worldwide operations, including operations based in the United States. Business operations could be adversely affected directly through the loss of human resources and destruction of production facilities.  

Risks unique to utilities and energy businesses  

 For the most part, Berkshire’s utilities and energy businesses, which generate, transmit and distribute electricity and transport and distribute natural gas, are highly regulated by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions in which operations are conducted. The regulatory process determines the terms and conditions of providing utility service, including the rates that may be charged to customers. The results of this process may not allow recovery of all costs incurred by the utilities. Regulations also address safety, environmental, capital structure and operational compliance. Adverse new legislation or regulations or reinterpretations of existing regulations as well as the nature of the regulatory process may have a significant impact on financial results.  

 The utilities and energy business requires significant amounts of capital to construct, operate and maintain sufficient generation, transmission and distribution systems. Usually, large amounts of borrowed funds are employed in the process, which may not be available at economically favorable terms. Such systems may need to be operational for very long periods of time in order to justify the financial investment. The risk of financial failure of capital projects is not necessarily recoverable through rates that are charged to customers.  

Governmental Investigations  

 Certain of Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries, particularly General Re Corporation and some of its subsidiaries, are subject to ongoing investigations by U.S. federal and state governmental authorities, including the U.S. Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, the New York State Attorney General, the Office of the Connecticut Attorney General and various state insurance departments, and by certain foreign governmental authorities, relating to non-traditional products and in some cases to transactions with other insurers. These investigations are described under Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcomes of these investigations, is unable to estimate a range of possible loss and cannot predict whether or not the outcomes will have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s business or results of operations for at least the quarterly period when these matters are completed or otherwise resolved.   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

 None.  

20   
Item 2. Description of Properties