Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Results of Operations  

 Net earnings for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the table that follows. Amounts are after deducting income taxes and minority interests and are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Berkshire’s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire’s corporate headquarters in the day-to-day business activities of the operating businesses. Berkshire’s corporate office management participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses. The business segment data (Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) should be read in conjunction with this discussion.  

 Insurance — Underwriting  

 A summary follows of underwriting results from Berkshire’s insurance businesses for the past three years. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Berkshire engages in both primary insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks. Through General Re, Berkshire also reinsures life and health risks. In primary insurance activities, Berkshire subsidiaries assume defined portions of the risks of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. In reinsurance activities, Berkshire subsidiaries assume defined portions of similar or dissimilar risks that other insurers or reinsurers have subjected themselves to in their own insuring activities. Berkshire’s principal insurance and reinsurance businesses are: (1) GEICO, (2) General Re, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group.  

 Berkshire’s management views insurance businesses as possessing two distinct operations – underwriting and investing. Underwriting decisions are the responsibility of the unit managers; investing, with limited exceptions at GEICO and General Re’s international operations, is the responsibility of Berkshire’s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett. Accordingly, Berkshire evaluates performance of underwriting operations without any allocation of investment income.  

 Periodic underwriting results can be affected significantly by changes in estimates for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, including amounts established for occurrences in prior years. See the Critical Accounting Policies section of this discussion for information concerning the loss reserve estimation process. In addition, the timing and amount of catastrophe losses produce significant volatility in periodic underwriting results. During the third quarter of 2005, Hurricanes Katrina and Rita struck the Gulf Coast region of the United States producing the largest catastrophe losses for any quarter in the history of the property/casualty insurance industry. In the fourth quarter of 2005, Hurricane Wilma struck the Southeast U.S. Estimated pre-tax losses from these events of $3.4 billion were recorded in 2005. In contrast, there were no significant losses from major catastrophe events in 2006 or 2007.  

29   
 Insurance — Underwriting (Continued)  

 A key marketing strategy followed by all of these businesses is the maintenance of extraordinary capital strength. Statutory surplus of Berkshire’s insurance businesses was approximately $62 billion at December 31, 2007. This superior capital strength creates opportunities, especially with respect to reinsurance activities, to negotiate and enter into insurance and reinsurance contracts specially designed to meet the unique needs of insurance and reinsurance buyers. Additional information regarding Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance operations follows.  

 GEICO  

 GEICO provides primarily private passenger automobile coverages to insureds in 49 states and the District of Columbia. GEICO policies are marketed mainly by direct response methods in which customers apply for coverage directly to the company via the Internet, over the telephone or through the mail. This is a significant element in GEICO’s strategy to be a low-cost insurer. In addition, GEICO strives to provide excellent service to customers, with the goal of establishing long-term customer relationships.  

 GEICO’s underwriting results for the past three years are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   Net of losses of $200 million from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma.   

 Premiums earned in 2007 and 2006 increased 6.8% and 9.4%, respectively, over the corresponding prior year amounts. The growth in premiums earned for voluntary auto in 2007 was 6.6%, which was less than the 8.8% increase in policies-in-force during the past year as average premiums per policy continue to slowly decline. Average premiums per policy in 2008 are expected to be relatively unchanged from 2007. Policies-in-force also increased over the last twelve months in the preferred risk markets (8.4%) and in the standard and nonstandard markets (10.0%). Voluntary auto new business sales increased 5.0% in 2007 as compared to the prior year. Voluntary auto policies-in-force at December 31, 2007 were 656,000 higher than at December 31, 2006.  

 Losses and loss adjustment expenses in 2007 were $8,523 million, an increase of 10.0% over 2006. The loss ratio increased to 72.2% in 2007 compared to 70.1% in 2006 and 70.6% in 2005. The increase in the loss ratio in 2007 in part reflects the aforementioned decline in average premiums per policy attributable to rate decreases. In 2007, claims frequencies for physical damage coverages increased in the two to four percent range over 2006 while frequencies for injury coverages decreased in the three to five percent range. Physical damage severities increased in the second half of 2007 at an annualized rate of two to four percent. Injury severities also began to increase in the latter part of 2007 at an annualized rate of three to six percent. Incurred losses from catastrophe events were approximately $34 million in 2007, $54 million in 2006 and $227 million in 2005 (primarily from the hurricanes in the third and fourth quarters).  

 Underwriting expenses in 2007 were $2,170 million, an increase of 8.9% over 2006, which increased 13.7% over 2005. The increases in expenses in both years primarily reflected higher advertising costs as well as increased personnel costs to service the growth of policies-in-force.  

 General Re  

 General Re conducts a reinsurance business offering property and casualty and life and health coverages to clients worldwide. Property and casualty reinsurance is written in North America on a direct basis through General Reinsurance Corporation and internationally through 95% owned Cologne Re (based in Germany) and other wholly-owned affiliates. Property and casualty reinsurance is also written through brokers with respect to Faraday in London. Life and health reinsurance is written worldwide through Cologne Re. General Re strives to generate underwriting gains in essentially all of its product lines. Underwriting performance is not evaluated based upon market share and underwriters are instructed to reject inadequately priced risks. General Re’s underwriting results are summarized for the past three years in the following table. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   Includes losses of $685 million from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma.   

30   
Management’s Discussion (Continued)  

 Insurance — Underwriting (Continued)  

Property/casualty  

 Premiums written in 2007 declined 2.9% from amounts written in 2006 which declined 7.0% from amounts written in 2005. Premiums written in 2007 included $114 million with respect to a reinsurance to close transaction that increased General Re’s economic interest in the runoff of the Lloyd’s Syndicate 435’s 2001 year of account from 60% to 100%. There was no similar transaction in 2006 or 2005. Excluding the effect of the reinsurance to close transaction and the effects of foreign currency translation, premiums written declined 10.9% when compared to 2006 which decreased 5.7% when compared to 2005. Premiums earned in 2007 declined 2.6% from amounts earned in 2006 which declined 10.4% from amounts earned in 2005. Excluding the effects of the reinsurance to close transaction discussed above and the effects of foreign currency translation, premiums earned declined 10.1% in 2007 as compared to 2006 and 11.3% in 2006 as compared to 2005. The overall comparative declines in written and earned premiums in the past three years reflected continued underwriting discipline by rejecting transactions where pricing is deemed inadequate with respect to the risk as well as significant decreases in finite risk business. Competition within the industry could lead to further declines in 2008.  

 Pre-tax underwriting results in 2007 included $519 million in underwriting gains from property business partially offset by $44 million in underwriting losses from casualty/workers’ compensation business. The property business produced underwriting gains of $90 million for the 2007 accident year and $429 million from favorable run-off of prior years’ property losses. Although the current accident year results included $192 million of catastrophe losses, property results generally reflected relatively low loss levels. The timing and magnitude of catastrophe and large individual losses produces significant volatility in periodic underwriting results. The pre-tax underwriting losses from casualty business in 2007 included $120 million of workers’ compensation accretion of discount and deferred charge amortization, as well as legal costs associated with various ongoing finite reinsurance investigations. These charges were largely offset by underwriting gains in other casualty business.  

 Pre-tax underwriting results in 2006 included $708 million in underwriting gains from property business partially offset by $335 million in underwriting losses from casualty/workers’ compensation business and legal and estimated settlement costs associated with the finite reinsurance investigations. The property business produced underwriting gains of $317 million for the 2006 accident year and $391 million from favorable run-off of prior years’ losses. The 2006 accident year results also benefited from a lack of catastrophe losses. The underwriting losses from casualty business in 2006 included $137 million in discount accretion and deferred charge amortization, increases in prior years’ workers’ compensation reserves of $103 million arising from the continuing escalation of medical utilization and cost inflation as well as increases in asbestos and environmental reserves which were somewhat offset by net decreases in prior years’ reserves for other casualty coverages.  

 The 2005 pre-tax underwriting loss of $445 million included approximately $685 million in losses from three major hurricanes in 2005 (Katrina, Rita and Wilma). Otherwise, underwriting results for the 2005 accident year generally benefited from re-pricing efforts and improved coverage terms and conditions put into place over the preceding few years as well as favorable aviation and non-catastrophe property business. Underwriting results in 2005 also included losses attributable to prior accident years consisting of net reserve increases on workers’ compensation of $228 million, asbestos and environmental mass tort exposures of $102 million and $136 million in discount accretion and deferred charge amortization. Offsetting these prior years’ losses were $527 million in gains from net reserve decreases in other casualty lines and property lines.  

Life/health  

 Premiums earned in 2007 increased 4.1% over 2006 which increased 3.0% over 2005. Adjusting for the effects of foreign currency translation, premiums earned were relatively unchanged in 2007 and increased 2.3% in 2006 when compared to 2005. The increase in premiums earned in 2006 was primarily from life business in Europe.  

 Underwriting results for the global life/health operations produced pre-tax underwriting gains of $80 million in 2007, $153 million in 2006 and $111 million in 2005. Results for continuing operations were profitable in each of the past three years primarily due to favorable mortality with respect to life business. Included in the underwriting results for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $105 million, $31 million and $66 million, respectively, of net losses attributable to reserve increases on certain U.S. health coverages related to workers’ compensation and long-term-care business that has been in run-off for several years.  

31   
 Insurance — Underwriting (Continued)  

 Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group  

 The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) underwrites excess-of-loss reinsurance and quota-share coverages for insurers and reinsurers worldwide. BHRG’s business includes catastrophe excess-of-loss reinsurance and excess direct and facultative reinsurance for large or otherwise unusual discrete property risks referred to as individual risk. Retroactive reinsurance policies provide indemnification of losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss events. Other multi-line refers to other business written on both a quota-share and excess basis, participations in and contracts with Lloyd’s syndicates as well as property, aviation and workers’ compensation programs. The timing and amount of catastrophe losses can produce extraordinary volatility in BHRG’s periodic underwriting results. BHRG’s underwriting results are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   Includes losses of $2.5 billion from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma.   

 Catastrophe and individual risk contracts may provide exceptionally large limits of indemnification, often several hundred million dollars and occasionally in excess of $1 billion, and cover catastrophe risks (such as hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters) or other property risks (such as aviation and aerospace, commercial multi-peril or terrorism). Premiums earned from catastrophe and individual risk contracts in 2007 declined 28% from 2006 which increased 32% over 2005. Catastrophe and individual risk premiums written were approximately $1.2 billion in 2007, $2.4 billion in 2006 and $1.8 billion in 2005. The decrease in written and earned premiums in 2007 was principally attributable to increased industry capacity for catastrophe reinsurance which has produced increased price competition and fewer opportunities to write business. The level of catastrophe and individual risk business written in a given period will vary significantly based upon market conditions and management’s assessment of the adequacy of premium rates.  

 The underwriting results from catastrophe and individual risk business in 2007 and 2006 reflected no significant losses from catastrophe events during those years. In 2006, BHRG incurred losses of approximately $200 million attributable to prior years’ events, primarily Hurricane Wilma which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2005. The underwriting results in 2005 included estimated losses of approximately $2.4 billion from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma. The timing and magnitude of losses produce extraordinary volatility in periodic underwriting results of BHRG’s catastrophe and individual risk business. BHRG does not cede catastrophe and individual risks to mitigate the volatility. Management accepts such potential volatility provided that the long-term prospect of achieving underwriting profits is reasonable.  

 Retroactive policies normally provide very large, but limited, indemnification of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss events that are expected to be paid over long periods of time. The underwriting losses from retroactive reinsurance are primarily attributable to the amortization of deferred charges established on the contracts. At the inception of the contract, deferred charges represent the difference between the premium received and the estimated ultimate loss reserves payable. Deferred charges are amortized over the estimated claims payment period using the interest method. The amortization charges are based on the estimated timing and amount of loss payments and are recorded as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.  

 Premiums earned from retroactive reinsurance in 2007 included $7.1 billion from the Equitas reinsurance agreement which became effective on March 30, 2007. See Note 11 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. At the inception of the Equitas contract, estimated liabilities for losses and loss adjustment expenses of $9.3 billion and an asset for deferred charges reinsurance assumed of $2.2 billion were recorded. At December 31, 2007, unamortized deferred charges for all of BHRG’s retroactive contracts (including the Equitas contract) were approximately $3.8 billion and gross unpaid losses were approximately $17.3 billion.  

 The underwriting loss from retroactive policies in 2007 included deferred charge amortization of $156 million on contracts written in 2007 (primarily the Equitas contract). There were no significant reserve changes in 2007 related to pre-2007 contracts. Underwriting losses from retroactive reinsurance in 2006 are net of gains of approximately $145 million which primarily derived from contracts that were commuted or amended during the last half of 2006. Underwriting losses in 2005 from retroactive reinsurance are net of a gain of approximately $46 million related to the commutation of a contract.  

 Other multi-line premiums earned in 2007 reflect significant increases in property business and significant decreases in casualty excess reinsurance. In addition, the management of certain workers’ compensation business was transferred to the Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group and the results for this business are now included in that group’s results. Premiums earned from other multi-line business increased in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to growth in workers’ compensation business. Multi-line business produced a pre-tax underwriting gain of $325 million in 2007 and $243 million in 2006 reflecting relatively low loss ratios on property business and favorable loss experience on workers’ compensation business. Underwriting results in 2005 included estimated losses of approximately $100 million from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma.  

32   
Management’s Discussion (Continued)  

 Insurance — Underwriting (Continued)  

 Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)  

 Effective January 1, 2008, BHRG entered into a reinsurance agreement with Swiss Reinsurance Company and its property-casualty affiliates (“Swiss Re”). Under the agreement, BHRG will assume a 20% quota-share of the premiums and related losses and expenses on all property-casualty risks of Swiss Re incepting over the five year period ending December 31, 2012. If recent years’ volumes were to continue over the next five years, the annual written premium assumed under this agreement would be in the $3 billion range, however actual premiums assumed over the five year period could vary significantly depending on market conditions and opportunities.  

 Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group  

 Berkshire’s primary insurance group consists of a wide variety of smaller insurance businesses that principally write liability coverages for commercial accounts. These businesses include: National Indemnity Company’s primary group operation (“NICO Primary Group”), a writer of motor vehicle and general liability coverages; U.S. Investment Corporation, whose subsidiaries underwrite specialty insurance coverages; a group of companies referred to internally as “Homestate” operations, providers of standard multi-line insurance; and Central States Indemnity Company, a provider of credit and disability insurance to individuals nationwide through financial institutions. Also included are Medical Protective Corporation (“MedPro”), a provider of professional liability insurance to physicians, dentists and other healthcare providers acquired on June 30, 2005 and Applied Underwriters, a provider of integrated workers’ compensation solutions acquired on May 19, 2006. Underwriting results for these two businesses are included in the Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group results beginning on their respective acquisition dates.  

 Collectively, Berkshire’s primary insurance businesses produced earned premiums of $1,999 million in 2007, $1,858 million in 2006 and $1,498 million in 2005. The significant increase in premiums earned in 2006 was primarily attributable to the impact of the MedPro and Applied Underwriters acquisitions partially offset by a decline in volume of the NICO Primary Group. Pre-tax underwriting gains as percentages of premiums earned were approximately 14% in 2007, 18% in 2006 and 16% in 2005. Underwriting gains were achieved by all significant primary insurance businesses.  

 Insurance — Investment Income  

 A summary of the net investment income of Berkshire’s insurance operations for the past three years follows. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Investment income consists of interest and dividends earned on cash equivalents and fixed maturity and equity investments of Berkshire’s insurance businesses. Pre-tax investment income earned in 2007 by Berkshire’s insurance businesses increased $442 million (10%) over 2006 which increased $836 million (24%) over 2005. The increases in 2007 and 2006 over the preceding year reflect increased invested assets, higher short-term interest rates in the United States and increased dividend rates on certain equity investments.  

 A summary of cash and investments held in Berkshire’s insurance businesses follows. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2007 were as follows. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 All U.S. government obligations are rated AAA by the major rating agencies and approximately 96% of all state, municipal and political subdivisions, foreign government obligations and mortgage-backed securities were rated AA or higher. Non-investment grade securities represent securities that are rated below BBB- or Baa3.  

33   
 Insurance — Investment Income (Continued)  

 Invested assets derive from shareholder capital and reinvested earnings as well as net liabilities assumed under insurance contracts or “float.” The major components of float are unpaid losses, unearned premiums and other liabilities to policyholders less premiums and reinsurance receivables, deferred charges assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts and deferred policy acquisition costs. Float approximated $59 billion at December 31, 2007, $51 billion at December 31, 2006 and $49 billion at December 31, 2005. The increase in float in 2007 was principally due to the Equitas reinsurance transaction. The cost of float, as represented by the ratio of underwriting gain or loss to average float, was negative for the last three years, as Berkshire’s insurance businesses generated underwriting gains in each year.  

 Utilities and Energy (“MidAmerican”)  

 Revenues and earnings of MidAmerican for each of the past three years are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   Net of minority interests and includes interest earned by Berkshire (net of related income taxes).  

 **   Net of $58 million deferred income tax benefit in 2007 as a result of the reduction in the United Kingdom corporate income tax rate from 30% to 28% which was enacted during the third quarter of 2007 and will be effective in 2008. Includes additional income tax charges of $49 million in 2005 related to Berkshire’s accounting for MidAmerican under the equity method.   

 Revenues in 2007 from MidAmerican Energy Company (“MEC”) increased $806 million (23%) over 2006. MEC’s non-regulated energy sales in 2007 exceeded 2006 by $597 million primarily due to increased electric sales volume and prices driven by improved market opportunities. MEC’s regulated retail and wholesale electricity sales in 2007 exceeded 2006 by $155 million, which reflected the impact of new generating assets in 2007 and improved market opportunities in wholesale markets as well as higher unit sales attributable to warmer summer temperatures and increases in the average number of retail customers. Earnings before corporate interest and taxes (“EBIT”) of MEC in 2007 increased $64 million (18%), reflecting the margins on the increases in regulated and nonregulated energy sales, partially offset by higher facilities operating and maintenance costs. 

 Revenues in 2007 from PacifiCorp increased $1,348 million (45%) versus 2006. Revenues and EBIT of PacifiCorp for 2006 in the preceding table are included beginning as of the acquisition date (March 21, 2006). EBIT of PacifiCorp in 2007 increased $336 million (94%) versus 2006. In 2007, PacifiCorp’s revenues and EBIT were favorably impacted by regulatory-approved rate increases and higher customer usage in retail markets, as well as increased margins on wholesale electricity sales, partially offset by higher fuel and purchased power costs. Fuel costs increased due to the higher volumes and because of higher average unit costs.  

 Revenues in 2007 from natural gas pipelines increased $116 million (12%) over 2006 due primarily to higher demand and rates resulting from favorable market conditions and because revenues in 2006 reflected the impact of estimated rate case refunds to customers with respect to an order by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. EBIT in 2007 from natural gas pipelines increased $97 million (26%) over 2006 mainly due to comparatively higher revenue and lower depreciation due to expected changes in depreciation rates in connection with a current rate proceeding.  

 Revenues from U.K. utilities in 2007 increased over the comparable 2006 period primarily attributable to the strengthening of the Pound Sterling versus the U.S. dollar as well as higher gas production and electricity distribution revenues. EBIT from the U.K. utilities in 2007 was essentially unchanged compared to 2006 as higher maintenance and depreciation costs and the write-off of unsuccessful gas exploration costs offset the impact of higher revenues.  

 Revenues and EBIT from real estate brokerage declined 12% and 43%, respectively, compared to 2006, primarily due to significantly lower transaction volume as a result of the slowdown in U.S. residential real estate activity. Revenues and EBIT from other activities in 2006 included pre-tax gains of $117 million which was primarily from the disposal of equity securities. There were no significant securities gains in 2007.  

34   
Management’s Discussion (Continued)  

 Manufacturing, Service and Retailing  

 Revenues and pre-tax earnings of the manufacturing, service and retailing businesses for each of the past three years follows. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   Management evaluates the results of NetJets using accounting standards for recognition of revenue and planned major maintenance expenses that were generally accepted when Berkshire acquired NetJets but are no longer acceptable due to subsequent changes in accounting standards adopted by the FASB. Revenues and pre-tax earnings for the other services businesses shown above reflect these prior revenue and expense recognition methods. Revenues shown in this table are greater than the amounts reported in Berkshire’s consolidated financial statements by $709 million in 2007, $781 million in 2006 and $704 million in 2005. Pre-tax earnings included in this table for 2007, 2006 and 2005 exceed the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements by $48 million, $79 million and $63 million, respectively.   

 McLane Company  

 McLane Company, Inc., (“McLane”) is a wholesale distributor of grocery and non-food products to retailers, convenience stores and restaurants. McLane’s business is marked by high sales volume and very low profit margins. McLane’s revenues in 2007 increased $2,386 million (9%) as compared to 2006 which increased $1,619 million (7%) as compared to 2005. The comparative revenue increases reflect additional grocery and foodservice customers as well as manufacturer price increases and state excise tax increases which are passed on to customers.  

 Pre-tax earnings in 2007 increased $3 million over 2006 which increased $12 million over 2005. The increases reflect the increase in sales volume, partially offset by lower gross margins. The gross margin rate in 2007 was 5.79% versus 5.85% in 2006 and 5.98% in 2005. In 2007, the gross margin rate was negatively impacted by excise tax increases as well as the effects of increased competition. The impact of the reduced gross margin rate was partially offset by a decline in other operating expenses as a percentage of revenues. Pre-tax earnings in 2007 also included a $10 million gain from a litigation settlement, which was offset by an asset write down at a small novelty items distribution subsidiary. Approximately 33% of McLane’s annual revenues are from sales to Wal-Mart. A curtailment of purchasing by Wal-Mart could have a material adverse impact on the earnings of McLane.  

 Shaw Industries  

 Shaw Industries (“Shaw”) is the world’s largest manufacturer of tufted broadloom carpets and is a full-service flooring company. Revenues of $5,373 million in 2007 declined $461 million (8%) from 2006. In 2007, carpet volume decreased 10% versus 2006 due to lower sales in residential markets, partially offset by a modest increase in commercial market volume. The continued slowdown in new housing construction is the primary driver behind lower residential market sales. In 2007, pre-tax earnings decreased $158 million (27%) compared to 2006. The decline reflects the aforementioned lower sales volume and higher product costs due primarily to comparatively higher raw material prices and lower manufacturing efficiencies as a result of decreased production. These factors combined to produce declines in gross margin dollars in 2007 of approximately 17% versus 2006. Selling, general and administrative costs in 2007 declined approximately 6% compared with 2006, reflecting lower sales volume and expense control efforts. Residential housing construction activity is expected to remain slow during 2008 and as a result, revenues and earnings will likely decline further.  

 In 2006, revenues increased $111 million (2%) and pre-tax earnings of $594 million increased $109 million (22%) as compared to 2005. The increase in revenues reflected a 7% increase in the average square yard selling price for carpet, partially offset by a 6% reduction in square yards sold. The comparative decline in 2006 square yards sold versus 2005 accelerated during the third and fourth quarters which was attributable to the slowing of single-family housing construction and the effects of accelerated customer purchases during the second half of 2005 in anticipation of price increases. The increase in pre-tax earnings in 2006 over 2005 was primarily generated in the first six months of the year and was mainly attributable to a reduction in manufacturing cost per unit deriving from the integration of carpet backing and nylon-fiber manufacturing operations acquired by Shaw in the fourth quarter of 2005.  

 Other manufacturing  

 Berkshire’s other manufacturing businesses include a wide array of businesses. Included in this group are several manufacturers of building products (Acme Building Brands, Benjamin Moore, Johns Manville and MiTek) and apparel (Fruit of the Loom (includes the Russell athletic apparel and sporting goods business acquired in August 2006 and the women’s intimate apparel business acquired from VF Corporation in April 2007), Garan, Fechheimers, Justin Brands and the H.H. Brown Shoe Group). Also included in this group are Forest River, a leading manufacturer of leisure vehicles and the ISCAR Metalworking  

35   
Manufacturing, Service and Retailing (Continued)  

 Other manufacturing (Continued)  

 Companies (“IMC”), an industry leader in the metal cutting tools business with operations worldwide that was acquired in July 2006. In July 2007, Berkshire acquired two leading jewelry manufacturing and distribution companies (“Richline”) that design, manufacture and distribute karat gold, silver and gem set jewelry to mass merchandisers, large jewelry chains, department stores and home shopping networks. There are numerous other manufacturers of consumer and commercial products in this diverse group.  

 Revenues in 2007 from other manufacturing activities were $14,459 million, an increase of $2,471 million (21%) over 2006. The comparative increase was primarily attributable to the businesses acquired since mid-2006 as well as a significant increase from CTB, a manufacturer of equipment for the livestock and agricultural industries. Revenues from the building products businesses declined $292 million in 2007 as demand for their products was negatively affected by the general slowdown in housing construction activity.  

 Pre-tax earnings of the other manufacturing businesses were $2,037 million in 2007, an increase of $281 million (16%) over 2006. The increases were primarily due to full-year inclusion in 2007 of IMC and increased earnings of CTB, partially offset by a 22% decline in earnings of the building products businesses. Revenues and earnings from the building products businesses will likely decline further in 2008 as a result of the continued weakness in residential housing construction. Additionally, pre-tax earnings of Fruit of the Loom declined in 2007 as a result of operating losses from the newly acquired women’s intimate apparel operations.  

 Revenues of the other manufacturing businesses in 2006 increased $2,728 million (29%) and pre-tax earnings increased $421 million (32%) as compared to 2005. The acquisitions of Forest River (acquired August 2005), IMC and Russell Corporation account for a substantial portion of these increases. Additionally, the building products group of businesses reported increases in revenues and pre-tax earnings in 2006 as compared to the prior year.  

 Other service  

 Berkshire’s other service businesses include NetJets, the world’s leading provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation aircraft and FlightSafety, a provider of high technology training to operators of aircraft and ships. Among other businesses included in this group are: TTI, a leading electronic components distributor (acquired March 2007); Business Wire, a leading distributor of corporate news, multimedia and regulatory filings (acquired February 2006); The Pampered Chef, a direct seller of high quality kitchen tools; International Dairy Queen, a licensor and service provider to about 6,000 stores that offer prepared dairy treats and food; The Buffalo News, a publisher of a daily and Sunday newspaper; and businesses that provide management and other services to insurance companies.  

 Revenues from the other service businesses in 2007 increased $1,981 million (34%) and pre-tax earnings increased $310 million (47%) as compared to 2006. The increase in revenues and pre-tax earnings in 2007 versus 2006 was attributable to the impact of business acquisitions (primarily TTI and Business Wire) as well as increased revenues and pre-tax earnings from FlightSafety and NetJets. Both of these businesses benefited in 2007 from higher equipment (simulators and aircraft) utilization rates and from increased customer demand.  

 Revenues from the other service businesses in 2006 increased $1,083 million (23%) and pre-tax earnings increased $329 million (100%) as compared to 2005. These increases derived from significantly improved operating results of NetJets, as well as increases in revenues and earnings for FlightSafety and the inclusion of the results of Business Wire. NetJets’ revenues in 2006 increased $759 million as compared to 2005 and pre-tax earnings in 2006 were $143 million compared to a pre-tax loss of $80 million in 2005. In 2006, occupied flight hours increased 19% and average hourly rates increased as well. The improvement in operating results at NetJets also reflected a substantial decline in the cost of subcontracted flights that were necessary to meet peak customer demand.  

 Retailing  

 Berkshire’s retailing operations consist of several home furnishings (Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey, Star Furniture and Jordan’s) and jewelry (Borsheims, Helzberg and Ben Bridge) retailers. Also included in this group is See’s Candies. Revenues of $3.4 billion in 2007 increased $63 million (2%) versus 2006. Pre-tax earnings in 2007 of the retailing businesses decreased $15 million (5%) compared to 2006 and was primarily attributable to lower revenues and earnings from jewelry stores.  

 Revenues of the retail group in 2006 were $3.3 billion, an increase of $223 million (7%) versus 2005. Pre-tax earnings in 2006 were $289 million, an increase of $32 million (12%) over 2005. Home furnishings revenues in 2006 included sales from two new R.C. Willey stores of $77 million. In addition, same store home furnishings sales in 2006 increased approximately 6% compared to 2005. A significant portion of the increase in pre-tax earnings was due to a $27 million increase at See’s Candies.  

36   
Management’s Discussion (Continued)  

 Finance and Financial Products  

 A summary of revenues and pre-tax earnings from Berkshire’s finance and financial products businesses follows. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Revenues from manufactured housing and finance activities (Clayton Homes) increased $95 million (3%) as compared to 2006. In 2007, interest income from financing activities increased $70 million (7%) over 2006 reflecting higher average installment loan balances. Installment loan balances outstanding as of December 31, 2007 were approximately $11.1 billion compared to $9.9 billion and $9.5 billion at the end of 2006 and 2005. Pre-tax earnings of Clayton Homes increased $13 million (3%) over 2006 reflecting a $30 million increase in net interest earned and lower credit losses partially offset by an overall 5% decline in sales of manufactured homes. Installment loans originated or acquired by subsidiaries of Clayton Homes are financed primarily with proceeds from debt issued by Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation (“BHFC”). In September 2007 and January 2008, BHFC issued an aggregate of $2.75 billion par amount of new notes at interest rates that are on average approximately 72 basis points higher than notes that matured in the second half of 2007 and January 2008. Accordingly, net interest earned from financing activities may decline in 2008.  

 The increase in revenues in 2006 as compared to 2005 from Clayton Homes was primarily attributable to increased sales of manufactured homes of $302 million due to increased sales of higher priced homes as well as an increase in total units sold. Pre-tax earnings from Clayton Homes in 2006 increased $97 million (23%) as compared to 2005 which was due to increased interest income from higher average installment loan balances as a result of loan portfolio acquisitions in 2005.  

 Revenues and pre-tax earnings from furniture/transportation equipment leasing activities for 2007 decreased $70 million (8%) and $71 million (39%), respectively, as compared to 2006. The declines primarily reflect lower rental income driven by lower utilization rates for the over-the-road trailer and storage units. Due to significant cost components of this business being fixed (depreciation and facility expenses), pre-tax earnings declined disproportionately to revenues.  

 Revenues of other finance business activities consist primarily of interest income earned on short-term and other fixed maturity investments. Pre-tax earnings in 2007 reflected a charge of approximately $67 million from the adverse effects of changes in mortality assumptions on certain life annuity contract liabilities. In 2006, pre-tax earnings included income of $67 million from an equity commitment fee and in 2005 pre-tax earnings included losses of $137 million from the General Re derivatives business, which has now completed a major portion of its run-off, and Berkshire’s investment in Value Capital, a partnership interest that was liquidated as of June 30, 2006.  

 Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses  

 A summary of investment and derivative gains and losses follows. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Investment gains or losses are recognized upon the sales of investments or as otherwise required under GAAP. The timing of realized gains or losses from sales can have a material effect on periodic earnings. However, such gains or losses usually have little, if any, impact on total shareholders’ equity because most equity and fixed maturity investments are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gain or loss included as a component of other comprehensive income. Other-than-temporary impairments represent the adjustment of cost to fair value when management concludes that an investment’s decline in value below cost is other than temporary. The impairment loss represents a non-cash charge to earnings.  

37   
 Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses (Continued)  

 In each of the past three years, pre-tax investment gains from sales and other disposals primarily derived from equity securities. In 2005, pre-tax investment gains from sales and other disposals included a non-cash pre-tax gain of approximately $5 billion from Berkshire’s exchange of common stock of The Gillette Company (“Gillette”), which Berkshire held for many years, for shares of The Procter & Gamble Company (“PG”), which PG issued in its acquisition of Gillette. Berkshire’s management does not regard the gain recorded, as required under GAAP, as meaningful. The gain recognized for financial reporting purposes is deferred for income tax purposes. The transaction essentially had no effect on Berkshire’s consolidated shareholders’ equity because the gain was accompanied by a corresponding reduction of unrealized investment gains included in accumulated other comprehensive income.  

 Derivative gains and losses from foreign currency forward contracts arise as the value of the U.S. dollar changes against certain foreign currencies. The notional value of open foreign currency forward contracts was approximately $14 billion as of December 31, 2005 but has declined to an immaterial amount at December 31, 2007. During 2005, the value of most foreign currencies decreased relative to the U.S. dollar and these contracts produced losses.  

 Other derivative contracts primarily pertain to credit default risks of other U.S. entities as well as equity price risks associated with major worldwide equity indices. Such contracts are carried at estimated fair value and changes in estimated fair value are included in earnings in the period of the change. The gains/losses from such contracts are principally attributable to non-cash changes in the fair values of the related contracts and reflect changes in applicable underlying credit standing, equity index values, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and other factors. These contracts generally may not be settled before the expiration date (up to 20 years in the future with respect to equity index contracts) and therefore the amount of cash basis gains or losses will not be known for years. Nevertheless, the fair values on any given reporting date and the resulting gains and losses reflected in earnings will likely be volatile, reflecting the volatility of equity and credit markets.  

 The estimated fair value of equity index and credit default derivative contracts at December 31, 2007 was approximately $6.4 billion, an increase of approximately $3.1 billion from December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily due to new contracts entered into during the year for which Berkshire received premiums of approximately $2.9 billion. As of December 31, 2007, Berkshire’s maximum exposure under these contracts was approximately $40 billion, an increase of approximately $16 billion from December 31, 2006.  

Financial Condition  

 Berkshire’s balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity and a strong capital base. Consolidated shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2007 was $120.7 billion. Consolidated cash and invested assets, excluding assets of finance and financial products businesses, was approximately $142.4 billion at December 31, 2007 (including cash and cash equivalents of $38.9 billion) and $125.2 billion at December 31, 2006 (including cash and cash equivalents of $38.3 billion). Berkshire’s invested assets are held predominantly in its insurance businesses. A large amount of capital is maintained in the insurance subsidiaries for strategic and marketing purposes and in support of reserves for unpaid losses. In the United States, in particular, dividend payments by insurance companies are subject to prior approval by state regulators. For the year ending December 31, 2007, Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries paid dividends of $4.9 billion.  

 During 2007, Berkshire made several relatively small business acquisitions for aggregate cash consideration of $1.6 billion. Additionally, Berkshire agreed in December 2007 to acquire a 60% interest in Marmon Holdings, Inc. (“Marmon”) for $4.5 billion. This acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, and is expected to close in March 2008. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information concerning the business acquisitions. Berkshire believes that it currently maintains sufficient liquidity to cover its contractual obligations and provide for contingent liquidity.  

 Notes payable and other borrowings of the insurance and other businesses were $2.7 billion (includes about $1.7 billion issued or guaranteed by Berkshire Hathaway Inc.) at December 31, 2007, a decrease of $1 billion from December 31, 2006, reflecting maturities and prepayments of $644 million of parent company debt, reductions in commercial paper (principally NetJets) and repayments of other borrowings of subsidiaries. Berkshire issued 3,715 Class A equivalent shares of common stock during 2007 in connection with the SQUARZ warrant exercises in exchange for $333 million.  

 Capital expenditures of the utilities and energy businesses were approximately $3.5 billion in 2007 and are forecasted to be approximately $3.9 billion in 2008. MidAmerican expects to fund these capital expenditures with cash flows from operations and debt proceeds. Certain of its borrowings are secured by certain assets of its regulated utility subsidiaries. During 2007, MidAmerican issued $3.55 billion par amount of new term debt and repaid $1.57 billion of previously issued debt including net repayments of short-term borrowings. Term debt of MidAmerican maturing in 2008 is $1.97 billion with an additional $3.16 billion due before 2013. Berkshire has committed until February 28, 2011 to provide up to $3.5 billion of additional capital to MidAmerican to permit the repayment of its debt obligations or to fund its regulated utility subsidiaries. Berkshire has not and does not intend to guarantee the repayment of debt by MidAmerican or any of its subsidiaries.  

 Assets of the finance and financial products businesses were $25.7 billion as of December 31, 2007 and $24.6 billion at December 31, 2006, which consisted primarily of loans and finance receivables, fixed maturity securities and cash and cash equivalents. Liabilities were $22.0 billion as of December 31, 2007 and $19.4 billion at December 31, 2006. As of December 31, 2007, notes payable and other borrowings of $12.1 billion included $8.9 billion par amount of medium-term notes issued by BHFC. In 2007, BHFC issued $750 million par amount of notes due in 2012 and repaid $700 million par amount of notes that matured. In 2008, an additional $3.1 billion par amount of notes will mature, including $1.25 billion that matured in January 2008. BHFC issued an additional $2.0 billion par amount of medium-term notes in January 2008. BHFC notes are unsecured and mature at various dates extending through 2015. The proceeds from these notes are being used to finance originated and  

38   
Management’s Discussion (Continued)  

Financial Condition (Continued)  

acquired loans of Clayton Homes, which as of December 31, 2007 had a carrying value of $11 billion. Full and timely payment of principal and interest on the notes issued by BHFC is guaranteed by Berkshire. In addition, Clayton Homes had outstanding borrowings of $1.4 billion which are secured by portfolios of manufactured housing loans and are not guaranteed by Berkshire. These borrowings are repaid as the underlying collateralized loans are repaid.  

Contractual Obligations  

 Berkshire and its subsidiaries are parties to contracts associated with ongoing business and financing activities, which will result in cash payments to counterparties in future periods. Notes payable are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements along with accrued but unpaid interest as of the balance sheet date. In addition, Berkshire is obligated to pay interest under debt obligations for periods subsequent to the balance sheet date. Although certain principal balances may be prepaid in advance of the maturity date, thus reducing future interest obligations, it is assumed that no principal prepayments will occur for purposes of this disclosure. Also, short-term borrowings and repurchase agreements are generally expected to be renewed as they mature, however such amounts are not assumed to renew for purposes of this disclosure.  

 Berkshire and subsidiaries are also parties to long-term contracts to acquire goods or services in the future, which are not currently reflected in the financial statements. Such obligations, including future minimum rentals under operating leases, will be reflected in future periods as the goods are delivered or services provided. Amounts due as of the balance sheet date for purchases where the goods and services have been received and a liability incurred are not included to the extent that such amounts are due within one year of the balance sheet date.  

 Contractual obligations for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses arising under property and casualty insurance contracts are estimates. The timing and amount of such payments are contingent upon the ultimate outcome of claim settlements that will occur over many years. The amounts presented in the following table have been estimated based upon past claim settlement activities. The timing and amount of such payments are subject to significant estimation error. The factors affecting the ultimate amount of claims are discussed in the following section regarding Berkshire’s critical accounting policies. In addition, certain losses and loss adjustment expenses for property and casualty loss reserves are ceded to others under reinsurance contracts and therefore are recoverable. Such recoverables are not reflected in the table. Accordingly, the actual timing and amount of payments may differ materially from the amounts shown in the table.  

 A summary of contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007 follows. Amounts represent estimates of gross undiscounted amounts payable over time. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Critical Accounting Policies  

 Certain accounting policies require management to make estimates and judgments concerning transactions that will be settled several years in the future. Amounts recognized in the financial statements from such estimates are necessarily based on numerous assumptions involving varying and potentially significant degrees of judgment and uncertainty. Accordingly, the amounts currently reflected in the financial statements will likely increase or decrease in the future as additional information becomes available.  

 Property and casualty losses  

 A summary of Berkshire’s consolidated liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses is presented in the table below. Except for certain workers’ compensation reserves, liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses (referred to in this section as “gross unpaid losses”) are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets without discounting for time value, regardless of the length of the claim-tail. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   Net of reinsurance recoverable and deferred charges reinsurance assumed and before foreign currency translation effects.   

39   
 Property and casualty losses (Continued)  

 Berkshire records liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses under property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts based upon estimates of the ultimate amounts payable under the contracts with respect to losses occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Depending on the type of loss, the timing and amount of loss payments are subject to a great degree of variability and are contingent upon, among other things, the timing of claim reporting from insureds and cedants and the determination and payment of the ultimate loss amount through the loss adjustment process. A variety of techniques are used to establish and review the liabilities for unpaid losses recorded as of the balance sheet date. While techniques may vary, significant judgments and assumptions are necessary in projecting the ultimate amount payable in the future with respect to loss events that have occurred. As a result, uncertainties are imbedded in and permeate the actuarial loss reserving techniques and processes for all of Berkshire’s property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses.  

 As of any balance sheet date, claims that have occurred have not all been reported and if reported may not have been settled. Loss and loss adjustment expense reserves include provisions for reported claims (referred to as “case reserves”) and for claims that have not been reported, referred to as incurred but not yet reported (“IBNR”) reserves. The time period between the occurrence date and payment date of a loss is referred to as the “claim-tail.” Property claims usually have fairly short claim-tails and, absent litigation, are reported and settled within no more than a few years after occurrence. Casualty losses usually have very long claim-tails, occasionally extending for decades. Casualty claims are more susceptible to litigation and can be significantly affected by changing contract interpretations and the legal environment which further contributes to the extended claim-tails.  

 Receivables recorded with respect to insurance losses ceded to other reinsurers under reinsurance contracts are estimated in a manner similar to liabilities for insurance losses and, therefore, are also subject to estimation error. In addition to the factors cited above, reinsurance recoverables may ultimately prove to be uncollectible if the reinsurer is unable to perform under the contract. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of its obligations to indemnify its own policyholders.  

 Each of Berkshire’s insurance businesses utilizes loss reserving techniques that are believed to best fit its business. Additional information regarding reserves established by each of the significant businesses (GEICO, General Re and BHRG) follows.  

 GEICO  

 GEICO’s gross unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense reserves as of December 31, 2007 were $6,642 million. As of December 31, 2007, gross reserves included $4,735 million of reported average, case and case development reserves and $1,907 million of IBNR reserves.  

 GEICO predominantly writes private passenger auto insurance which has a relatively short claim-tail. The key assumptions affecting GEICO’s reserves include projections of ultimate claim counts (“frequency”) and average loss per claim (“severity”), which includes loss adjustment expenses.  

 GEICO’s reserving methodologies produce reserve estimates based upon the individual claims (or a “ground-up” approach), which in the aggregate yields a point estimate of the ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses. Ranges of loss estimates are not determined in the aggregate. A detailed discussion of the process and significant factors considered in establishing reserves follows.  

 Actuaries establish and evaluate unpaid loss reserves using recognized standard actuarial loss development methods and techniques. The significant reserve components (and percentage of gross reserves) are: (1) average reserves (20%), (2) case and case development reserves (50%) and (3) IBNR reserves (30%). Each component of loss reserves is affected by the expected frequencies and average severities of claims. Such amounts are analyzed using actuarial techniques on historical claims data and adjusted when appropriate to reflect perceived changes in loss patterns. Data is analyzed by policy coverage, rated state, reporting date and occurrence date, among other factors. A brief discussion of each component follows.  

 Average reserve amounts are established for reported auto damage claims and new liability claims prior to the development of an individual case reserve. The average reserves are established as a reasonable estimate for incurred claims for which claims adjusters have insufficient time and information to make specific claim estimates and for a large number of minor physical damage claims that are paid within a relatively short time after being reported. Average reserve amounts are driven by the estimated average severity per claim and the number of new claims opened. The average severity per claim amount is developed by projecting the ultimate severities for each accident quarter and weighting with both reported claims and estimated unreported claims.  

 Claims adjusters generally establish individual liability claim case loss and loss adjustment expense reserve estimates as soon as the specific facts and merits of each claim can be evaluated. Case reserves represent the amounts that in the judgment of the adjusters are reasonably expected to be paid in the future to completely settle the claim, including expenses. Individual case reserves are subsequently revised as more information becomes known.  

 For most liability coverages, case reserves alone are an insufficient measure of the ultimate cost due in part to the longer claim-tail, the greater chance of protracted litigation and the incompleteness of facts available at the time the case reserve is established. Therefore, additional case development reserve estimates are established, usually as a percentage of the case reserve. As of December 31, 2007, case development reserves averaged approximately 20% of total established case reserves. In general, case development factors are selected by a retrospective analysis of the overall adequacy of historical case reserves. Case development factors are reviewed and revised periodically.  

40   
Management’s Discussion (Continued)  

 Property and casualty losses (Continued)  

 GEICO (Continued)  

 For unreported claims, IBNR reserve estimates are calculated by first projecting the ultimate number of claims expected (reported and unreported) for each significant coverage by using historical quarterly and monthly claim counts to develop age-to-age projections of the ultimate counts by accident quarter. Reported claims are subtracted from the ultimate claim projections to produce an estimate of the number of unreported claims. The number of unreported claims is multiplied by an estimate of the average cost per unreported claim to produce the IBNR reserve amount. Actuarial techniques are difficult to apply reliably in certain situations, such as to new legal precedents, class action suits or recent catastrophes. Consequently, supplemental IBNR reserves for these types of events may be established through the collaborative effort of actuarial, claims and other management.  

 For each of its major coverages, GEICO tests the adequacy of the total loss reserves using one or more actuarial projections based on claim closure models, paid loss triangles and incurred loss triangles. Each type of projection analyzes loss occurrence data for claims occurring in a given period and projects the ultimate cost.  

 In 2007, claim frequencies were generally lower than expected and severity increases were generally not as great as originally projected during the first part of the year. Loss reserve estimates recorded at the end of 2006 developed downward by approximately $375 million when reevaluated at December 31, 2007 producing a corresponding increase to pre-tax earnings in 2007. These downward reserve developments represented approximately 3% of earned premiums in 2007 and approximately 6% of the prior year-end reserve amount. Reserving assumptions at December 31, 2007 were modified appropriately to reflect the most recent frequency and severity results. Future reserve development will depend on whether frequency and severity turn out to be more or less than anticipated. Within the automobile line of business the reserves with the most uncertainty are for automobile liability, due to the longer claim-tails for most of these coverages. Approximately 90% of GEICO’s reserves as of December 31, 2007 were for automobile liability, of which bodily injury (“BI”) coverage accounted for nearly 60%. Management believes it is reasonably possible that the average BI severity will change by at least one percentage point from the severity used. If actual BI severity changes one percentage point from what was used in establishing the reserves, the reserves would develop up or down by approximately $99 million resulting in a corresponding decrease or increase in pre-tax earnings. Many of the same economic forces that would likely cause BI severity to be different from expected would likely also cause severities for other injury coverages to differ in the same direction.  

 GEICO’s exposure to highly uncertain losses is believed to be limited to certain commercial excess umbrella policies written during a period from 1981 to 1984. Remaining reserves associated with such exposure are currently a relatively insignificant component of GEICO’s total reserves (less than 3%) and there is little apparent asbestos or environmental liability exposure. Related claim activity over the past year was insignificant.  

 General Re and BHRG  

 General Re’s and BHRG’s property and casualty loss reserves derive primarily from assumed reinsurance. Additional uncertainties unique to loss reserving processes for reinsurance are described below. The nature, extent, timing and perceived reliability of information received from ceding companies varies widely depending on the type of coverage, the contractual reporting terms (which are affected by market conditions and practices) and other factors. Due to the lack of standardization of the terms and conditions of reinsurance contracts, the wide variability of coverage needs of individual clients and the tendency for those needs to change rapidly in response to market conditions, the ongoing economic impact of such uncertainties, in and of themselves, cannot be reliably measured.  

 The nature and extent of loss information provided under many facultative, per occurrence excess contracts or retroactive contracts where company personnel either work closely with the ceding company in settling individual claims or manage the claims themselves may not differ significantly from the information received under a primary insurance contract. Loss information from aggregate excess of loss contracts, including catastrophe losses and quota-share treaties, is often less detailed. Occasionally such information is reported in summary format rather than on an individual claim basis. Loss data is provided through periodic reports and may include the amount of ceded losses paid where reimbursement is sought as well as case loss reserve estimates. Ceding companies infrequently provide IBNR estimates to reinsurers.  

 Each of Berkshire’s reinsurance businesses has established practices to identify and gather needed information from clients. These practices include, for example, comparison of expected premiums to reported premiums to help identify delinquent client periodic reports and claim reviews to facilitate loss reporting and identify inaccurate or incomplete claim reporting. These practices are periodically evaluated and changed as conditions, risk factors and unanticipated areas of exposures are identified.  

 The timing of claim reporting to reinsurers is delayed in comparison with primary insurance. In some instances there are multiple reinsurers assuming and ceding parts of an underlying risk causing multiple contractual intermediaries between General Re or BHRG and the primary insured. In these instances, the delays in reporting can be compounded. The relative impact of reporting delays on the reinsurer varies depending on the type of coverage, contractual reporting terms and other factors. Contracts covering casualty losses on a per occurrence excess basis may experience longer delays in reporting due to the length of the claim-tail as regards to the underlying claim. In addition, ceding companies may not report claims to the reinsurer until they believe it is reasonably possible that the reinsurer will be affected, usually determined as a function of its estimate of the claim amount as a percentage of the reinsurance contract retention. On the other hand, the timing of reporting large per occurrence excess property losses or property catastrophe losses may not vary significantly from primary insurance.  

41   
 Property and casualty losses (Continued)  

 General Re and BHRG (Continued)  

 Under contracts where periodic premium and claims reports are required from ceding companies, such reports are generally required at quarterly intervals which in the U.S. range from 30 to 90 days after the end of the accounting period. In continental Europe, reinsurance reporting practices vary since fewer clients report premiums, losses and case reserves on a quarterly basis. In certain countries, clients report on an annual basis and generally not until 90 to 180 days after the end of the annual period. Estimates of premiums and losses are accrued based on expected results supplemented when necessary for estimates of significant known events occurring in the interim. To monitor the timing and receipt of information due, client reporting requirements are tracked. When clients miss reporting deadlines, the clients are contacted.  

 Premium and loss data is provided through at least one intermediary (the primary insurer), so there is a greater risk that the loss data provided is incomplete, inaccurate or outside the coverage terms. Information provided by ceding companies is reviewed for completeness and compliance with the contract terms. Reinsurance contracts generally allow for Berkshire’s reinsurance subsidiaries to have access to the cedant’s books and records with respect to the subject business and provide them the ability to conduct audits to determine the accuracy and completeness of information. Such audits are conducted when management deems it appropriate.  

 In the regular course of business, disputes with clients may arise concerning whether certain claims are covered under the reinsurance policies. Most disputes are resolved by the claims departments by discussing coverage aspects with the appropriate client personnel or by independent outside counsel review and determination. If disputes cannot be resolved, contracts generally specify whether arbitration, litigation, or alternative dispute resolution will be invoked. There are no coverage disputes at this time for which an adverse resolution would likely have a material impact on Berkshire’s results of operations or financial condition.  

 In summary, the scope, number and potential variability of assumptions required in estimating ultimate losses from reinsurance contracts of General Re and BHRG are more uncertain than primary property and casualty insurers due to the factors previously discussed. Additional information concerning General Re and BHRG follows.  

 General Re  

 General Re’s gross and net unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and gross reserves by major line of business as of December 31, 2007 are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 General Re’s process of establishing loss reserve estimates is based upon a ground-up approach, beginning with case estimates and supplemented by additional case reserves (“ACRs”) and IBNR reserves. Critical judgments in the establishment of these loss reserves may involve the establishment of ACRs by claim examiners, the expectation of ultimate loss ratios which drive IBNR reserve amounts and the case reserve reporting trends compared to the expected loss reporting patterns. Recorded reserve amounts are subject to “tail risk” where reported losses develop beyond the maximum expected loss emergence pattern time period.  

 General Re does not routinely determine loss reserve ranges because it believes that the techniques necessary have not sufficiently developed and the myriad of assumptions required render such resulting ranges to be unreliable. In addition, counts of claims or average amounts per claim are not utilized because clients do not consistently provide reliable data in sufficient detail.  

 Upon notification of a reinsurance claim from a ceding company, claim examiners make independent evaluations of loss amounts. In some cases, examiners’ estimates differ from amounts reported by ceding companies. If the examiners’ estimates are significantly greater than the ceding company’s estimates, the claims are further investigated. If deemed appropriate, ACRs are established above the amount reported by the ceding company. As of December 31, 2007, ACRs of $3.3 billion before discounts were concentrated in workers’ compensation and to a lesser extent in professional liability reserves. Examiners also periodically conduct claim reviews at client companies and case reserves are often increased as a result. In 2007, claim examiners conducted about 400 claim reviews.  

 Actuaries classify all loss and premium data into segments (“reserve cells”) primarily based on product (e.g., treaty, facultative and program) and line of business (e.g., auto liability, property, etc.). For each reserve cell, losses are aggregated by accident year and analyzed over time. Depending on client reporting practices, some losses and premiums are aggregated by policy year or underwriting year. These loss aggregations are internally called loss triangles which serve as the primary basis for IBNR reserve calculations. Over 300 reserve cells are reviewed for North American business and approximately 900 reserve cells are reviewed with respect to international business.  

42   
Management’s Discussion (Continued)  

 Property and casualty losses (Continued)  

 General Re (Continued)  

 Loss triangles are used to determine the expected case loss emergence patterns for most coverages and, in conjunction with expected loss ratios by accident year, are further used to determine IBNR reserves. Additional calculations form the basis for estimating the expected loss emergence pattern. The determination of the expected loss emergence pattern is not strictly a mechanical process. In instances where the historical loss data is insufficient, estimation formulas are used along with reliance on other loss triangles and judgment. Factors affecting loss development triangles include but are not limited to the following: changes in client claims practices, changes in claim examiners’ use of ACRs or the frequency of client company claim reviews, changes in policy terms and coverage (such as client loss retention levels and occurrence and aggregate policy limits), changes in loss trends and changes in legal trends that result in unanticipated losses, as well as other sources of statistical variability. These items influence the selection of the expected loss emergence patterns.  

 Expected loss ratios are selected by reserve cell, by accident year, based upon reviewing forecasted losses and indicated ultimate loss ratios predicted from aggregated pricing statistics. Indicated ultimate loss ratios are calculated using the selected loss emergence pattern, reported losses and earned premium. If the selected emergence pattern is not accurate, then the indicated ultimate loss ratios will not be accurate and this can affect the selected loss ratios and hence the IBNR reserve. As with selected loss emergence patterns, selecting expected loss ratios is not a strictly mechanical process and judgment is used in the analysis of indicated ultimate loss ratios and department pricing loss ratios.  

 IBNR reserves are estimated by reserve cell, by accident year, using the expected loss emergence patterns and the expected loss ratios. The expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios are the critical IBNR reserving assumptions and are updated annually. Once the annual IBNR reserves are determined, actuaries calculate expected case loss emergence for the upcoming calendar year. This calculation does not involve new assumptions and uses the prior year-end expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios. The expected losses are then allocated into interim estimates that are compared to actual reported losses in the subsequent year. This comparison provides a test of the adequacy of prior year-end IBNR reserves and forms the basis for possibly changing IBNR reserve assumptions during the course of the year.  

 In 2007, for prior years’ workers’ compensation losses, reported claims were less than expected claims by about $74 million. However, further analysis of the workers’ compensation reserve cells by segment indicated the need for additional IBNR. These developments precipitated about $218 million of a net increase in nominal IBNR reserve estimates for unreported occurrences. After deducting $20 million for the change in net reserve discounts during the year, workers’ compensation losses from prior years reduced pre-tax earnings in 2007 by $164 million. To illustrate the sensitivity of changes in expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios for General Re’s significant excess of loss workers’ compensation reserve cells, an increase of ten points in the tail of the expected emergence pattern and an increase of ten percent in the expected loss ratios would produce a net increase in nominal IBNR reserves of approximately $587 million and $334 million on a discounted basis as of December 31, 2007. The increase in discounted reserves would produce a corresponding decrease in pre-tax earnings. Management believes it is reasonably possible for the tail of the expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios to increase at these rates.  

 Other casualty and general liability reported losses (excluding mass tort losses) were favorable in 2007 relative to expectations. Casualty losses tend to be long-tail and it should not be assumed that favorable loss experience in a year means that loss reserve amounts currently established will continue to develop favorably. For General Re’s significant other casualty and general liability reserve cells (including medical malpractice, umbrella, auto and general liability), an increase of five points in the tails of the expected emergence patterns and an increase of five percent in expected loss ratios (one percent for large international proportional reserve cells) would produce a net increase in nominal IBNR reserves and a corresponding reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $720 million. Management believes it is reasonably possible for the tail of the expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios to increase at these rates in any of the aforementioned individual reserve cells. However, given the diversification in worldwide business, more likely outcomes are believed to be less than $720 million.  

 Property losses were lower than expected in 2007 but the nature of property loss experience tends to be more volatile because of the effect of catastrophes and large individual property losses. In response to favorable claim developments and another year of information, estimated remaining World Trade Center losses and estimated losses from the hurricanes in 2005 were reduced by $93 million in 2007.  

 In certain reserve cells within excess directors and officers and errors and omissions (“D&O and E&O”) coverages, IBNR reserves are based on estimated ultimate losses without consideration of expected emergence patterns. These cells often involve a spike in loss activity arising from recent industry developments making it difficult to select an expected loss emergence pattern. For example, the number of recent corporate scandals has caused an increase in reported losses. For General Re’s large D&O and E&O reserve cells an increase of ten points in the tail of the expected emergence pattern (for those cells where emergence patterns are considered) and an increase of ten percent in the expected loss ratios would produce a net increase in nominal IBNR reserves and a corresponding reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $210 million. Management believes it is reasonably possible for the tail of the expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios to increase at these rates.  

 Overall industry-wide loss experience data and informed judgment are used when internal loss data is of limited reliability, such as in setting the estimates for mass tort, asbestos and hazardous waste (collectively, “mass tort”) claims. Unpaid mass tort reserves at December 31, 2007 were approximately $1.8 billion gross and $1.2 billion net of reinsurance. Such  

43   
 Property and casualty losses (Continued)  

 General Re (Continued)  

reserves were approximately $1.9 billion gross and $1.2 billion net of reinsurance as of December 31, 2006. Claims paid attributable to such losses were about $75 million in 2007. In 2007, IBNR reserve estimates for asbestos and environmental claims were increased by $48 million. In addition to the previously described methodologies, General Re considers “survival ratios” based on net claim payments in recent years versus net unpaid losses as a rough guide to reserve adequacy. The survival ratio was approximately thirteen years as of December 31, 2007. The insurance industry’s comparable survival ratio for asbestos and pollution reserves was approximately eight years. Estimating mass tort losses is very difficult due to the changing legal environment. Although such reserves are believed to be adequate, significant reserve increases may be required in the future if new exposures or claimants are identified, new claims are reported or new theories of liability emerge.  

 BHRG  

 BHRG’s unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2007 are summarized as follows. Amounts are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 In general, the methodologies used to establish loss reserves vary widely and encompass many of the common methodologies employed in the actuarial field today. Certain traditional methodologies such as paid and incurred loss development techniques, incurred and paid loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson techniques and frequency and severity techniques are utilized as well as ground-up techniques where appropriate. Additional judgments must also be employed to consider changes in contract conditions and terms as well as the incidence of litigation or legal and regulatory change.  

 As of December 31, 2007, BHRG’s gross loss reserves related to retroactive reinsurance policies were predominantly casualty losses. Retroactive policies include excess-of-loss contracts, in which losses (relating to loss events occurring before a specified date on or before the contract date) above a contractual retention are indemnified or contracts that indemnify all losses paid by the counterparty after the policy effective date. Retroactive losses paid in 2007 were $894 million. The classification “reported case reserves” has no practical analytical value with respect to retroactive policies since the amount is often derived from reports in bulk from ceding companies, who may have inconsistent definitions of “case reserves.” Reserves are reviewed and established in the aggregate by contract including provisions for IBNR reserves.  

 In establishing retroactive reinsurance reserves, historical aggregate loss payment patterns are often analyzed and projected into the future under various scenarios. The claim-tail is expected to be very long for many policies and may last several decades. Management assigns judgmental probability factors to these aggregate loss payment scenarios and an expectancy outcome is determined. Management monitors claim payment activity and reviews ceding company reports or other information concerning the underlying losses. Since the claim-tail is expected to be very long for such contracts, management reassesses expected ultimate losses as significant events related to the underlying losses are reported or revealed during the monitoring and review process. During 2007, retroactive reserves developed downward by approximately $37 million.  

 BHRG’s liabilities for environmental, asbestos, and latent injury losses and loss adjustment expenses are presently concentrated within retroactive reinsurance contracts. Reserves for such losses were approximately $9.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2006. The increase during 2007 was due to the Equitas reinsurance agreement which became effective on March 30, 2007. See Note 11 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Losses paid in 2007 attributable to these exposures were approximately $500 million. BHRG, as a reinsurer, does not regularly receive reliable information regarding numbers of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims from all ceding companies on a consistent basis, particularly with respect to multi-line treaty or aggregate excess of loss policies. Periodically, a ground-up analysis of the underlying loss data of the reinsured is conducted to make an estimate of ultimate reinsured losses. When detailed loss information is unavailable, estimates can only be developed by applying recent industry trends and projections to aggregate client data. Judgments in these areas necessarily include the stability of the legal and regulatory environment under which these claims will be adjudicated. Potential legal reform and legislation could also have a significant impact on establishing loss reserves for mass tort claims in the future.  

 The maximum losses payable by BHRG under retroactive policies are not expected to exceed approximately $24.8 billion as of December 31, 2007. Absent significant judicial or legislative changes affecting asbestos, environmental or latent injury exposures, management currently believes it unlikely that unpaid losses as of December 31, 2007 ($17.3 billion) will develop upward to the maximum loss payable or downward by more than 15%.  

 A significant number of recent reinsurance contracts are expected to have a low frequency of claim occurrence combined with a potential for high severity of claims. These include property losses from catastrophes, terrorism and aviation risks under catastrophe and individual risk contracts. Loss reserves related to catastrophe and individual risk contracts decreased from approximately $2.2 billion at year end 2006 to approximately $1.3 billion at year end 2007. The decrease in reserves reflected loss payments in 2007 of approximately $900 million that were primarily attributable to the major hurricanes that occurred in 2005.  

44   
Management’s Discussion (Continued)  

 Property and casualty losses (Continued)  

 BHRG (Continued)  

 Loss reserves for pre-2007 events declined by approximately $200 million which produced a corresponding increase to pre-tax earnings in 2007. Reserving techniques for catastrophe and individual risk contracts generally rely more on a per-policy assessment of the ultimate cost associated with the individual loss event rather than with an analysis of the historical development patterns of past losses. Catastrophe loss reserves are provided when it is probable that an insured loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Absent litigation affecting the interpretation of coverage terms, the expected claim-tail is relatively short and thus the estimation error in the initial reserve estimates usually emerges within 24 months after the loss event.  

 Other reinsurance reserve amounts are generally based upon loss estimates reported by ceding companies and IBNR reserves that are primarily a function of reported losses from ceding companies and anticipated loss ratios established on an individual contract basis, supplemented by management’s judgment of the impact on each contract of major catastrophe events as they become known. Anticipated loss ratios are based upon management’s judgment considering the type of business covered, analysis of each ceding company’s loss history and evaluation of that portion of the underlying contracts underwritten by each ceding company, which are in turn ceded to BHRG. A range of reserve amounts as a result of changes in underlying assumptions is not prepared.  

 Other Critical Accounting Policies  

 Berkshire records as assets deferred charges with respect to liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts. At the inception of these contracts, the deferred charges represent the difference between the consideration received and the estimated ultimate liability for unpaid losses. Deferred charges are amortized using the interest method over an estimate of the ultimate claim payment period with the periodic amortization reflected in earnings as a component of losses and loss expenses. The deferred charge balances are adjusted periodically to reflect new projections of the amount and timing of loss payments. Adjustments to these assumptions are applied retrospectively from the inception of the contract. Unamortized deferred charges were $4.0 billion at December 31, 2007. Significant changes in the estimated amount and payment timing of unpaid losses may have a significant effect on unamortized deferred charges and the amount of periodic amortization.  

 Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2007 includes goodwill of acquired businesses of approximately $32.9 billion. A significant amount of judgment is required in performing goodwill impairment tests. Such tests include periodically determining or reviewing the estimated fair value of Berkshire’s reporting units. There are several methods of estimating a reporting unit’s fair value, including market quotations, asset and liability fair values and other valuation techniques, such as discounted projected future net earnings or net cash flows and multiples of earnings. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value, then individual assets, including identifiable intangible assets, and liabilities of the reporting unit are estimated at fair value. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit over the estimated fair value of net assets would establish the implied value of goodwill. The excess of the recorded amount of goodwill over the implied value is then charged to earnings as an impairment loss.  

 Berkshire’s consolidated financial position reflects very significant amounts of invested assets. A substantial portion of these assets are carried at fair values based upon current market quotations and, when not available, based upon fair value of similar instruments or valuation models reflecting the present value of estimated future cash flows. Certain of Berkshire’s fixed maturity securities are not actively traded in the financial markets. Further, Berkshire’s finance businesses maintain significant balances of finance receivables, which are carried at amortized cost. Considerable judgment is required in determining the assumptions used in certain valuation models, including interest rate, loan prepayment speed, credit risk and liquidity risk assumptions. Significant changes in these assumptions can have a significant effect on carrying values.  

 Information concerning recently issued accounting pronouncements which are not yet effective is included in Note 1(s) to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Berkshire does not expect that the adoption of any of the recently issued accounting pronouncements will have a material effect on its financial condition.  

Market Risk Disclosures  

 Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheets include a substantial amount of assets and liabilities whose fair values are subject to market risks. Berkshire’s significant market risks are primarily associated with interest rates, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The following sections address the significant market risks associated with Berkshire’s business activities.  

 Interest Rate Risk  

 Berkshire’s management prefers to invest in equity securities or to acquire entire businesses based upon the principles discussed in the following section on equity price risk. When unable to do so, management may alternatively invest in bonds, loans or other interest rate sensitive instruments. Berkshire’s strategy is to acquire securities that are attractively priced in relation to the perceived credit risk. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur. Berkshire strives to maintain high credit ratings so that the cost of debt is minimized. Berkshire utilizes derivative products, such as interest rate swaps, to manage interest rate risks on a limited basis.  

 The fair values of Berkshire’s fixed maturity investments and notes payable and other borrowings will fluctuate in response to changes in market interest rates. Increases and decreases in prevailing interest rates generally translate into decreases and increases in fair values of those instruments. Additionally, fair values of interest rate sensitive instruments may be affected by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options, relative values of alternative investments, the liquidity of the instrument and other general market conditions. Fixed interest rate investments may be more sensitive to interest rate changes than variable rate investments.  

45   
 Interest Rate Risk (Continued)  

 The following table summarizes the estimated effects of hypothetical increases and decreases in interest rates on assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk. It is assumed that the changes occur immediately and uniformly to each category of instrument containing interest rate risk. The hypothetical changes in market interest rates do not reflect what could be deemed best or worst case scenarios. Variations in market interest rates could produce significant changes in the timing of repayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results might differ from those reflected in the table. Dollars are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Equity Price Risk  

 Strategically, Berkshire strives to invest in businesses that possess excellent economics, with able and honest management and at sensible prices. Berkshire’s management prefers to invest a meaningful amount in each investee. Historically, Berkshire’s equity investments are generally concentrated in relatively few investees. At December 31, 2007, 49% of the total fair value of equity investments was concentrated in four investees.  

 Berkshire’s preferred strategy is to hold equity investments for very long periods of time. Thus, Berkshire’s management is not troubled by short-term equity price volatility with respect to its investments provided that the underlying business, economic and management characteristics of the investees remain favorable. Berkshire strives to maintain above average levels of shareholder capital to provide a margin of safety against short-term equity price volatility.  

 The carrying values of investments subject to equity price risk are, in almost all instances, based on quoted market prices as of the balance sheet dates. Market prices are subject to fluctuation and consequently the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments and general market conditions. Furthermore, amounts realized in the sale of a particular security may be affected by the relative quantity of the security being sold.  

 The table which follows summarizes Berkshire’s equity price risk as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 and shows the effects of a hypothetical 30% increase and a 30% decrease in market prices as of those dates. The selected hypothetical change does not reflect what could be considered the best or worst case scenarios. Indeed, results could be far worse due both to the nature of equity markets and the aforementioned concentrations existing in Berkshire’s equity investment portfolio. Dollars are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

46   
Management’s Discussion (Continued)  

 Equity Price Risk (Continued)  

 Berkshire is also subject to equity price risk with respect to certain long duration equity index option contracts. Berkshire’s maximum exposure with respect to such contracts was approximately $35 billion and $21 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These contracts generally expire 15 to 20 years from inception and they may not be settled before their respective expiration dates. The contracts have been written on four major equity indexes including three that are based on foreign markets. While Berkshire’s ultimate potential loss with respect to these contracts is directly correlated to the movement of the underlying stock index between contract inception date and expiration, the change in fair value from current changes in the indexes do not produce a proportional change in the estimated fair value of the contracts. Other factors (such as interest rates, expected dividend rates and the remaining duration of the contract as well as general market assumptions) affect the estimates of fair value reflected in the financial statements. The carrying amount of these liabilities was $4.6 billion at December 31, 2007 and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2006. If the underlying indexes declined 30% immediately, and absent changes in other factors required to estimate fair value, Berkshire estimates that it could incur a non-cash pre-tax loss of approximately $2.3 billion.  

 Foreign Currency Risk  

 Market risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates are currently concentrated in long duration equity index option contracts on foreign equity indexes. The following table summarizes the outstanding derivatives contracts as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 with foreign currency risk and shows the estimated changes in values of the contracts assuming changes in the underlying exchange rates applied immediately and uniformly across all currencies. The changes in value do not necessarily reflect the best or worst case scenarios and actual results may differ. Dollars are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Commodity Price Risk  

 Berkshire, through its ownership of MidAmerican, is subject to commodity price risk. Exposures include variations in the price of wholesale electricity that is purchased and sold, fuel costs to generate electricity and natural gas supply for regulated retail gas customers. Electricity and natural gas prices are subject to wide price swings as demand responds to, among many other items, changing weather, limited storage, transmission and transportation constraints, and lack of alternative supplies from other areas. To mitigate a portion of the risk, MidAmerican uses derivative instruments, including forwards, futures, options, swaps and other over-the-counter agreements, to effectively secure future supply or sell future production at fixed prices. The settled cost of these contracts is generally recovered from customers in regulated rates. Accordingly, the net unrealized gains and losses associated with interim price movements on such contracts are recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities. Financial results may be negatively impacted if the costs of wholesale electricity, fuel and or natural gas are higher than what is permitted to be recovered in rates. MidAmerican also uses futures, options and swap agreements to economically hedge gas and electric commodity prices for physical delivery to non-regulated customers. MidAmerican does not engage in a material amount of proprietary trading activities.  

 The table that follows summarizes Berkshire’s commodity price risk on energy derivative contracts of MidAmerican as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 and shows the effects of a hypothetical 10% increase and a 10% decrease in forward market prices by the expected volumes for these contracts as of that date. The selected hypothetical change does not reflect what could be considered the best or worst case scenarios. Dollars are in millions.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

47   
Forward-Looking Statements  

 Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this document, as well as some statements by the Company in periodic press releases and some oral statements of Company officials during presentations about the Company, are “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”). Forward-looking statements include statements which are predictive in nature, which depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, which include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” or similar expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible future Company actions, which may be provided by management are also forward-looking statements as defined by the Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions about the Company, economic and market factors and the industries in which the Company does business, among other things. These statements are not guaranties of future performance and the Company has no specific intention to update these statements.  

 Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors. The principal important risk factors that could cause the Company’s actual performance and future events and actions to differ materially from such forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, changes in market prices of Berkshire’s significant equity investees, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such as an earthquake, hurricane or an act of terrorism that causes losses insured by Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries, changes in insurance laws or regulations, changes in Federal income tax laws, and changes in general economic and market factors that affect the prices of securities or the industries in which Berkshire and its affiliates do business.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk