Item 1. Business 

 The Registrant is a diversified specialty food company and a global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of flavor products (including spices, herbs, extracts, seasonings and flavorings) and other specialty food products to the entire food industry. The Registrant’s major sales, distribution and production facilities are located in North America and Europe. Additional facilities are located in Mexico, Central America, Australia, China, Singapore, Thailand and South Africa. The Registrant was formed in 1915 under Maryland law as the successor to a business established in 1889. 

 The Registrant operates in two business segments: consumer and industrial. The consumer segment sells spices, herbs, extracts, seasoning blends, sauces, marinades and specialty foods to the consumer food market under a variety of brands worldwide, including “McCormick,” “Zatarain’s,” “Simply Asia,” “Thai Kitchen,” “Ducros,” “Vahine,” “Silvo,” “Club House” and “Schwartz.” The industrial segment sells seasoning blends, natural spices and herbs, wet flavors, coating systems and compound flavors to food manufacturers and the food service industry, served both directly and indirectly through distributors. 

 Please refer to pages 15 through 17, of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007 for descriptions of the Registrant’s consumer and industrial businesses, and pages 6, 7, 8, 11 and 16 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007 for a discussion of growth initiatives for the business. Such pages of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007 are incorporated by reference. 

 For financial information about the Registrant’s business segments, please refer to pages 18 through 22, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis,” and Note 14, “Business Segments and Geographic Areas” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 57 and 58 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007, which pages are incorporated by reference. 

 For a discussion of the Registrant’s recent acquisition activity, please refer to page 25, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis,” and Note 2, “Acquisitions” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 45 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007, which pages are incorporated by reference. 

Raw Materials 

 The most significant raw materials to the Registrant are cheese, pepper, soybean oil, wheat, sweeteners, capsicums, garlic and onion. Pepper and other spices and herbs are generally sourced from countries other than the United States. Others, like cheese and onion, are primarily sourced from within the United States. The Registrant is not aware of any government restrictions or other factors that would have a material adverse effect on the availability of these raw materials. Because the raw materials are agricultural products, they are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions and other factors beyond the Registrant’s control. The Registrant responds to this volatility in a number of ways including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. 

Customers 

 The Registrant’s products are sold directly to customers and also through brokers, wholesalers and distributors. In the consumer segment, products are resold to consumers through retail outlets, including grocery, mass merchandise, warehouse clubs, discount and drug stores under a variety of brands. In the industrial segment, products are used by food and beverage manufacturers as ingredients for their finished goods and by food service customers as ingredients for menu items to enhance the flavor of their foods. Customers for the industrial segment include food manufacturers and the food service industry, which are supplied both directly and through distributors. 

 The Registrant has a large number of customers for its products. In fiscal year 2007, sales to one of the Registrant’s customers, PepsiCo, Inc., accounted for 10% of consolidated net sales. Sales to the Registrant’s five largest customers represented approximately 28.5% of consolidated net sales for this period. 

 The dollar amount of backlog orders of the Registrant’s business is not material to an understanding of the Registrant’s business, taken as a whole. No material portion of the Registrant’s business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. Government. 

2 

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents 

 The Registrant owns a number of trademark registrations. Although in the aggregate these trademarks may be material to the Registrant’s business, the loss of any one of those trademarks, with the exception of the Registrant’s “McCormick,” “Club House,” “Ducros,” “Schwartz,” “Vahine” and “Zatarain’s” trademarks, would not have a material adverse effect on the Registrant’s business. The “McCormick” trademark is extensively used by the Registrant in connection with the sale of virtually all of the Registrant’s food products worldwide. The terms of the trademark registrations are as prescribed by law and the registrations will be renewed for as long as the Registrant deems them to be useful. 

 The Registrant has entered into a number of license agreements authorizing the use of its trademarks by affiliated and non-affiliated entities. The loss of these license agreements would not have a material adverse effect on the Registrant’s business. The term of the license agreements is generally three to five years or until such time as either party terminates the agreement. Those agreements with specific terms are renewable upon agreement of the parties. 

 The Registrant owns various patents, but they are not viewed as material to the Registrant’s business. 

Seasonality 

 Due to seasonal factors inherent in the business, the Registrant’s sales, income and cash from operations generally are lower in the first two quarters of the fiscal year, increase in the third quarter and are significantly higher in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. The seasonality reflects customer and consumer buying patterns, primarily in the consumer segment. 

Working Capital 

 In order to meet increased demand for its consumer products during its fourth quarter, the Registrant usually builds its inventories during the third quarter. The Registrant generally finances working capital items (inventory and receivables) through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of the Registrant’s liquidity and capital resources, see Note 6 “Financing Arrangements” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 48 and 49 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007, which pages are incorporated by reference, and the “Liquidity and Financial Condition” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 22 through 25 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007, which pages are incorporated by reference. 

Competition 

 The Registrant is a global leader in the manufacture and sale of flavor products (including spices, herbs, extracts, seasonings and flavorings) and other specialty food products, and competes in a geographic market that is international and highly competitive. The Registrant’s strategies for competing in each of its segments include a focus on price and value, product quality and innovation, and superior service. Additionally, in the consumer segment, the Registrant focuses on brand recognition and loyalty, effective advertising and promotional programs, and the identification and satisfaction of consumer preferences. For further discussion, see pages 12, and 15 through 17 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007, which pages are incorporated by reference. 

3 

Research and Development 

 Many of the Registrant’s products are prepared from confidential formulae developed by its research laboratories and product development teams. Expenditures for research and development were $49.3 million in 2007, $45.0 million in 2006 and $43.1 million in 2005. The amount spent on customer-sponsored research activities is not material. 

Environmental Regulations 

 The cost of compliance with federal, state and local provisions related to protection of the environment has had no material effect on the Registrant’s business. There were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in 2007 and there are no material expenditures planned for such purposes in 2008. 

Employees 

 The Registrant had approximately 7,500 employees worldwide as of December 31, 2007. The Registrant believes its relationship with employees to be good. The Registrant has no collective bargaining contracts in the United States. At the Registrant’s foreign subsidiaries, approximately 1,200 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or similar arrangements. 

Financial Information About Geographic Locations 

 For information on the net sales and long-lived assets of the Registrant, see Note 14, “Business Segments and Geographic Areas” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 57 and 58 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007, and the “Market Risk Sensitivity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 28 through 30 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007, which pages are incorporated by reference. 

Foreign Operations 

 The Registrant is subject in varying degrees to certain risks typically associated with a global business, such as local economic and market conditions, restrictions on investments, royalties and dividends and exchange rate fluctuations. Approximately 40% of sales in 2007 were from international operations. 

Forward-Looking Information 

 For a discussion of forward-looking information, see the “Forward-Looking Information” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on page 33 of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for 2007, which page is incorporated by reference. 

Available Information 

 The Registrant’s Internet website address is: www.mccormick.com. The Registrant makes available free of charge through its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are  

4 

electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Registrant’s website also includes the Registrant’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Ethics Policy and charters of its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee. These documents are also available in print to any shareholder upon request. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors