Item 1A. Risk Factors 

The following are certain risk factors that could affect the Registrant’s business, financial condition and results of operations. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you buy the Registrant’s common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. The risks that have been highlighted here are not the only ones that the Registrant faces. If any of the risks actually occur, the Registrant’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In that case, the trading price of the Registrant’s securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 

Damage To The Registrant’s Reputation Or Brand Name Could Negatively Impact The Registrant. 

The Registrant’s reputation for manufacturing high quality products is widely recognized. In order to safeguard that reputation, the Registrant has adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure conformity to specification and compliance with law. The Registrant also continually makes efforts to increase its brand awareness and relevance, and to maintain and improve relationships with its customers and consumers. A serious breach of the Registrant’s quality assurance or quality control procedures, or deterioration of its quality image, or impairment of its customer or consumer relationships, could have a material negative impact on its financial condition and results of operations. 

Issues Regarding Procurement Of Raw Materials May Negatively Impact The Registrant. 

The Registrant’s purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond the Registrant’s control. The most significant raw materials are cheese, pepper, soybean oil, wheat, sweeteners, capsicums, garlic and onion. While future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, the Registrant seeks to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. The Registrant has not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. Any actions taken in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate the Registrant’s exposure to changes in raw material prices. Therefore, the Registrant cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on its business, financial condition or operating results. 

In addition, the Registrant may have very little opportunity to mitigate the availability risk of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, political unrest in the producing countries, changes in governmental agricultural programs and other factors beyond the Registrant’s control. Therefore, the Registrant cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on its business, financial condition or operating results. 

5 

Further, political, socio-economic, and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities, in developing countries create risks for food safety. Although the Registrant has adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of its imported products, the Registrant cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on its business, financial condition or operating results. 

The Registrant’s Profitability May Suffer As A Result Of Competition In Its Markets. 

The food industry is intensely competitive. Competition in the Registrant’s product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. From time to time, the Registrant may need to reduce the prices for some of its products to respond to competitive and customer pressures. Such pressures also may impair the Registrant’s ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. 

The Registrant’s Operations May Be Impaired As A Result Of Disasters, Business Interruptions Or Similar Events. 

A natural disaster such as an earthquake, fire, flood, or severe storm, or a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack, an epidemic affecting the Registrant’s operating activities, major facilities, or employees’ and customers’ health, or a computer system failure, could cause an interruption or delay in the Registrant’s business and loss of inventory and/or data or render the Registrant unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, some of the Registrant’s inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent the Registrant from delivering products in a timely manner. The Registrant cannot provide assurance that its disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues it may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and the Registrant’s business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate it for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. In the event that an earthquake, natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of the Registrant’s facilities or interrupt its operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent the Registrant from delivering products in a timely manner, the Registrant’s business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. 

The Registrant May Not Be Able To Successfully Consummate Proposed Acquisitions Or Divestitures Or Integrate Acquired Businesses. 

From time to time, the Registrant may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of its business portfolio, divest existing businesses. These potential acquisitions and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. In addition, the Registrant may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce its profitability. If the Registrant is unable to consummate these transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, its financial results could be adversely affected. 

6 

The Registrant’s Foreign Operations Are Subject To Additional Risks. 

The Registrant operates its business and markets its products internationally. In 2007, 40% of the Registrant’s sales were generated in foreign countries. The Registrant’s foreign operations are subject to the risks described in this section, as well as risks related to fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. In particular, the Registrant’s subsidiaries conduct their businesses in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, their results are translated into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, the Registrant’s reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. All of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect the Registrant’s profitability. 

The Consolidation Of Customers May Put Pressures On The Registrant’s Operating Margins And Profitability. 

 The Registrant’s customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the U.S., the European Union and other major markets. Such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. These factors and others could have an adverse impact on the Registrant’s future sales growth and profitability. 

Fluctuations In Foreign Currency Markets May Negatively Impact The Registrant. 

 The Registrant is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows primarily related to raw material purchases. Most of this exposure is due to foreign operations needing to purchase raw materials in U.S. dollars. The Registrant also is exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. Additionally, the Registrant is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars. Primary exposures include the U.S. dollar versus the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi and Thai baht. On occasion, the Registrant may enter into forward and option contracts to manage these foreign currency risks. However, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate the Registrant’s exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. Therefore, the Registrant cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on its business, financial position or operating results. 

Increases In Interest Rates May Negatively Impact The Registrant. 

 The Registrant had total outstanding short-term borrowings of approximately $149.2 million at an average interest rate of approximately 5.28% on November 30, 2007. The Registrant’s policy is to manage its interest costs using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The Registrant also uses interest rate swaps to achieve a desired proportion of fixed and variable rate debt. The Registrant utilizes derivative financial instruments to enhance its ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of its ongoing business operations. The Registrant does not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor is it a party to any leveraged derivative instrument. The Registrant’s use of  

7 

derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. However, the Registrant’s use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate its exposure to changes in interest rates. Therefore, the Registrant cannot provide assurance that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative impact on its business, financial position or operating results. 

The Pending Acquisition Of The Assets Of Lawry’s May Pose Risks To The Registrant’s Business. 

 The Registrant has entered into an asset purchase agreement with Conopco, Inc. under which the Registrant agreed to purchase specified assets used in connection with the manufacturing, marketing, distributing and selling of food products under the Lawry’s and Adolph’s brands, including the “Lawry’s®” and “Adolph’s®” trade names, trademarks, and service marks, and all associated goodwill. There may be risks or costs resulting from the Lawry’s acquisition that are not presently known to the Registrant. Various factors, including regulatory approval, may delay or prevent us from completing the acquisition and increase the costs associated with the acquisition. For example, the Registrant has agreed with Conopco to divest its Season-All® business if the divesture becomes necessary to obtain clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act (“HSR”). The Registrant has agreed to pay Conopco a $30 million termination fee, subject to certain limited conditions, in the event that HSR clearance is not obtained. 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

None. 

Item 2. Properties