ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS   

 Described below and elsewhere in this report and other documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission are risks, uncertainties and other factors that can adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 5   
 Adverse changes in general business conditions in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 Adverse changes in general business conditions in the United States and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. Higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors that adversely affect the demand for our paint, coatings and related products could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 Negative global economic and financial conditions may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 Continuation of the current global economic and financial conditions may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 We finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. The current global economic and financial conditions have caused some customers to be less profitable and have increased our exposure to credit risk. Continuation of these conditions could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 We generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. If any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, which could adversely affect our ability to fund seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes, our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely impacted.  

 We have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. We periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such value may not be recoverable. Impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. Future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and may result in changes in our estimates of future sales and cash flows which may result in us incurring substantial impairment charges which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  

 We hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. A decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 Economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition.  

 Portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing and manufacturing. Our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. During economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease. This decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition.  

 During 2008 and 2007, the U.S. homebuilding industry experienced a significant decrease in demand for new homes, and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. During this same time period, the U.S. real estate industry also experienced a significant decrease in existing home turnover. The commercial and industrial building and maintenance sectors also began to experience a significant decline in 2008. The downturns in each of these segments reduced the demand for some of our products and adversely affected our sales and earnings.  

 6   
 Continued downturns in these segments will likely continue to reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow.  

 Increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow.  

 We purchase raw materials and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. Factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. Although raw materials and energy supplies are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset these costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. Many of our paint and coatings products utilize petroleum based derivatives, minerals (including titanium dioxide) and metals.  

 Although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow.  

 We have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. During 2008, no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. However, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. Although our broad distribution channels would help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow.  

 Adverse weather conditions may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow.  

 From time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the United States have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. For example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. An adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow.  

 Increased competition may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance.  

 We face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. Some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. Other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. Technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. Competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products.  

 Our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations.  

 We have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long term growth strategy. These acquisitions involve challenges and risks. In the event that we do not successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected.  

 Risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in Asia, Mexico, South America and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 Net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately $1.12 billion in 2008, or 14.0% of our total consolidated net sales. Sales outside of the United States make up an important part of our current  

 7   
 business and future strategic plans. Our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. Our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 In many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. Any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.  

 Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 Because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. Historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the euro, the British pound, the Argentine peso, the Brazilian real, the Chilean peso, the Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar. While we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 We are required to comply with increasingly stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.  

 Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. We expect environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. Our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition.  

 We are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued.  

 We are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. We accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. These estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. We continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. Due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse affect on our earnings.  

 8   
 The nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition.  

 In the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. These uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies,” we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In the event that a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. In those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. In those cases where no accrual is recorded or exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued, FAS No. 5 requires disclosure of the contingency when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or additional loss may have been incurred if even the possibility may be remote.  

 Our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. Along with other companies, we are a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. The plaintiffs are seeking recovery based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. The plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. We are also a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints which seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. We believe that the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. We expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief.  

 Notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. Adverse court rulings, such as the jury verdict against us and other defendants in the State of Rhode Island action and the Wisconsin State Supreme Court’s determination that Wisconsin’s risk contribution theory may apply in the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. In addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful.  

 Due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. In addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or any such legislation and regulations. We have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. Any potential liability that may result from such litigation or such legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. In the event  

 9   
 any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. Additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. An estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties.  

 We discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail on page 18 of our 2008 Annual Report under the caption “Litigation and Other Contingent Liabilities,” and pages 26 through 30 of our 2008 Annual Report under the caption “Litigation” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 62 through 66 of our 2008 Annual Report.  

 The costs or potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us through our ownership of Life Shield could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  

 We own Life Shield Engineered Systems, LLC. Life Shield develops and manufactures blast and fragment mitigating systems and ballistic resistant systems. The blast and fragment mitigating systems and ballistic resistant systems create a potentially higher level of product liability for us than is normally associated with coatings and related products we manufacture, distribute and sell. Depending upon the extent of any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us relating to Life Shield, such liability could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. We discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 26 of our 2008 Annual Report under the caption “Contingent Liabilities” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”   

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS   

 None.   

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES