PART I   

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS   

 Introduction  

 The Sherwin-Williams Company, founded in 1866 and incorporated in Ohio in 1884, is engaged in the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of paint, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers primarily in North and South America with additional operations in the Caribbean region, Europe and Asia. Our principal executive offices are located at 101 West Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115-1075, telephone (216) 566-2000. As used in this report, the terms “Sherwin-Williams,” “Company,” “we” and “our” mean The Sherwin-Williams Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise.  

 Available Information  

 We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may access these documents on the “Investor Relations” page of our website at www.sherwin.com.  

 We also make available free of charge on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Director Independence Standards, our Business Ethics Policy and the charters of our Audit Committee, our Compensation and Management Development Committee, and our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. You may access these documents in the “Corporate Governance” section on the “Investor Relations” page of our website at www.sherwin.com. Any person may receive a copy of any of these documents free of charge by writing to us at The Sherwin-Williams Company, 101 West Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115, Attention: Investor Relations.  

 Basis of Reportable Segments  

 We report our segment information in the same way that management internally organizes our business for assessing performance and making decisions regarding allocation of resources in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 131, “Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information.” We have three reportable operating segments: Paint Stores Group, Consumer Group and Global Finishes Group (collectively, the “Reportable Operating Segments”). Factors considered in determining our Reportable Operating Segments include the nature of the business activities, existence of managers responsible for the operating and administrative activities and information presented to our Board of Directors. We report all other business activities and immaterial operating segments that are not reportable in the Administrative segment.  

 The Company’s chief operating decision maker (CODM) has been identified as the Chief Executive Officer because he has final authority over performance assessment and resource allocation decisions. Because of the diverse operations of the Company, the CODM regularly receives discrete financial information about each Reportable Operating Segment as well as a significant amount of additional financial information about certain divisions, business units or subsidiaries of the Company. The CODM uses all such financial information for performance assessment and resource allocation decisions. The CODM evaluates the performance of and allocates resources to the Reportable Operating Segments based on profit or loss before income taxes and cash generated from operations. The accounting policies of the Reportable Operating Segments are the same as those described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 44 through 49 of our 2008 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

 Paint Stores Group  

 The Paint Stores Group consisted of 3,346 company-operated specialty paint stores in the United States, Canada, Jamaica, Virgin Islands, Trinidad and Tobago and Puerto Rico at December 31, 2008. Each store in this segment is engaged in the related business activity of selling paint, coatings and related products to end-use customers. The Paint Stores Group markets and sells Sherwin-Williams® branded architectural paint and coatings,  

 1   
 industrial and marine products, original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) product finishes and related items. These products are produced by manufacturing facilities in the Consumer and Global Finishes Groups. In addition, each store sells selected purchased associated products. During 2008, this segment opened 21 net new stores, consisting of 100 new stores opened (92 in the United States, 7 in Canada and 1 in Trinidad and Tobago) and 79 stores closed (78 in the United States and 1 in Puerto Rico). In 2007, there were 172 stores acquired and 107 net new stores opened (81 in the United States). In 2006, there were 117 net new stores opened (113 in the United States). The loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the business of this segment.  

 Consumer Group  

 The Consumer Group develops, manufactures and distributes a variety of paint, coatings and related products to third party customers primarily in the United States and Canada and the Paint Stores Group. Approximately 56 percent of the total sales of the Consumer Group in 2008, including inter-segment transfers, represented products sold through the Paint Stores Group. Sales and marketing of certain controlled brand and private labeled products is performed by a direct sales staff. The products distributed through third party customers are intended for resale to the ultimate end-user of the product. The Consumer Group had sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a significant portion of the sales of the segment. However, the loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the overall profitability of the segment. This segment incurred most of the Company’s capital expenditures related to ongoing environmental compliance measures.  

 Global Finishes Group  

 The Global Finishes Group develops, licenses, manufactures, distributes and sells a variety of architectural paint and coatings, industrial and marine products, automotive finishes and refinish products, OEM coatings and related products in North and South America, Europe and Asia. The acquisitions of Inchem Holdings International Limited (Asia), Becker Powder Coatings, Inc. (United States) and Euronavy-Tintas Maritimas e Industriais, S.A. (Portugal) are included in this segment. This segment meets the demands of its customers for a consistent worldwide product development, manufacturing and distribution presence and approach to doing business. This segment licenses certain technology and trade names worldwide. Sherwin-Williams® and other controlled brand products are distributed through the Paint Stores Group and this segment’s network of 541 company-operated branches and by a direct sales staff and outside sales representatives to retailers, dealers, jobbers, licensees and other third party distributors. During 2008, this segment added 22 net new branches consisting of 17 net new branches in South America, 3 in the United States and 2 in India. At December 31, 2008, the Global Finishes Group consisted of operations in the United States, subsidiaries in 11 foreign countries, 4 foreign joint ventures and income from licensing agreements in 14 foreign countries.  

 Administrative Segment  

 The Administrative segment includes the administrative expenses of the Company’s corporate headquarters site. Also included in the Administrative segment was interest expense, interest and investment income, certain expenses related to closed facilities and environmental-related matters, and other expenses which were not directly associated with the Reportable Operating Segments. The Administrative segment did not include any significant foreign operations. Also included in the Administrative segment was a real estate management unit that is responsible for the ownership, management, and leasing of non-retail properties held primarily for use by the Company, including the Company’s headquarters site, and disposal of idle facilities. Sales of this segment represented external leasing revenue of excess headquarters space or leasing of facilities no longer used by the Company in its primary operations. Gains and losses from the sale of property were not a significant operating factor in determining the performance of the Administrative segment.  

 Segment Financial Information  

 For financial information regarding our Reportable Operating Segments, including net external sales, segment profit, identifiable assets and other information by segment, see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 72 through 74 of our 2008 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

 2   
 Domestic and Foreign Operations  

 Financial and other information regarding domestic and foreign operations is set forth in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 73 of our 2008 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

 Additional information regarding risks attendant to foreign operations is set forth on page 30 of our 2008 Annual Report under the caption “Market Risk” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation,” which is incorporated herein by reference.  

 Business Developments  

 For additional information regarding our business and business developments, see pages 5 through 10 of our 2008 Annual Report and the “Letter to Shareholders” on pages 1 through 4 of our 2008 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

 Raw Materials and Products Purchased for Resale  

 Raw materials and fuel supplies are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities that none of the Reportable Operating Segments anticipate any significant sourcing problems during 2009. There are sufficient suppliers of each product purchased for resale that none of the Reportable Operating Segments anticipate any significant sourcing problems during 2009.  

 Seasonality  

 The majority of the sales for the Reportable Operating Segments traditionally occur during the second and third quarters. There is no significant seasonality in sales for the Administrative segment.  

 Working Capital  

 In order to meet increased demand during the second and third quarters, the Company usually builds its inventories during the first quarter. Working capital items (inventories and accounts receivable) are generally financed through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of the Company’s liquidity and capital resources, see pages 19 through 30 of our 2008 Annual Report under the caption “Financial Condition, Liquidity and Cash Flow” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which is incorporated herein by reference.  

 Trademarks and Trade Names  

 Customer recognition of our trademarks and trade names collectively contribute significantly to our sales. The major trademarks and trade names used by each Reportable Operating Segment are set forth below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Patents  

 Although patents and licenses are not of material importance to our business as a whole or any segment, the Global Finishes Group derives a portion of its income from the licensing of technology, trademarks and trade names to foreign companies.  

 3   
 Backlog and Productive Capacity  

 Backlog orders are not significant in the business of any Reportable Operating Segment since there is normally a short period of time between the placing of an order and shipment. We believe that sufficient productive capacity currently exists to fulfill our needs for paint, coatings and related products through 2009.  

 Research and Development  

 For information regarding our costs of research and development included in technical expenditures, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 48 of our 2008 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

 Competition  

 We experience competition from many local, regional, national and international competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. We are a leading manufacturer and retailer of paint, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers, however, our competitive position varies for our different products and markets.  

 In the Paint Stores Group, competitors include other paint and wallpaper stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets. Product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, service and price determine the competitive advantage for this segment.  

 In the Consumer Group, domestic and foreign competitors include manufacturers and distributors of branded and private labeled paint and coatings products. Technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for this segment.  

 The Global Finishes Group has numerous competitors in its domestic and foreign markets with broad product offerings and several others with niche products. Key competitive factors for this segment include technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price.  

 The Administrative segment has many competitors consisting of other real estate owners, developers and managers in areas in which this segment owns property. The main competitive factors are the availability of property and price.  

 Employees  

 We employed 30,677 persons at December 31, 2008.  

 Environmental Compliance  

 For additional information regarding environmental-related matters, see pages 22 through 24 of our 2008 Annual Report under the caption “Environmental-Related Liabilities” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1, 8 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 46, 61 and 62, and 69, respectively, of our 2008 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.   

 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION   

 Certain statements contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Business” and elsewhere in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon management’s current expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events and conditions and may discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance (including sales and earnings), expected growth, future business plans and the costs and potential liability for environmental-related matters and the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation. Any statement that is not historical in nature is a forward-looking statement and may be identified by the use of words and phrases such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “will,” “will likely result,” “will continue,” “plans to” and similar expressions.  

 4   
 Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements and from our historical results and experience. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include such things as:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Readers are cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results and that the above list should not be considered to be a complete list. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.   

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS