PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

Separation from The E. W. Scripps Company  

Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. was formed on July 1, 2008 and became a publicly traded company as the result of the separation of The E. W. Scripps Company (our “Former Parent” or “E. W. Scripps”) into two publicly traded companies. The separation was completed through a tax free distribution of Scripps Networks Interactive shares to E. W. Scripps shareholders following the close of business on June 30, 2008.  

Business Overview  

Scripps Networks Interactive is a leading lifestyle content company with respected, high-profile television and interactive brands. Our businesses engage audiences and efficiently serve advertisers by delivering entertaining and highly useful content that focuses on specifically defined topics of interest.  

We manage our operations through our reportable operating segment: Lifestyle Media. We also have businesses with operations in international markets. Lifestyle Media includes our national television networks, Home and Garden Television (“HGTV”), Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and Great American Country (“GAC”). Lifestyle Media also includes websites that are associated with the aforementioned television brands and other Internet-based businesses serving food, home and travel related categories. Our Lifestyle Media segment earns revenue principally from advertising sales, affiliate fees and ancillary sales, including the sale and licensing of consumer products.  

We seek to engage audiences that are highly desirable to advertisers with entertaining and informative lifestyle content that is produced for television, the Internet and any other media platforms consumers choose. We intend to expand and enhance our Lifestyle Media brands through the creation of popular new programming and content, the use of new distribution platforms, such as mobile phones and video-on-demand, the licensing and sale of branded consumer products and through international expansion.  

 3 

Table of Contents 

Business Segments  

Lifestyle Media  

Our Lifestyle Media business segment includes six national television networks and our portfolio of related interactive lifestyle brands. The segment generates revenue principally from the sale of advertising time on national television networks and interactive media platforms and from affiliate fees paid by cable television operators, direct-to-home satellite services and other distributors that carry our network programming. In 2011, revenues from advertising sales and affiliate fees were approximately 70 percent and 28 percent, respectively, of total revenue for the Lifestyle Media segment. Our Lifestyle Media segment also earns revenue from the licensing of its content to third parties and the licensing of its brands for consumer products such as videos, books, kitchenware and tools.  

The advertising revenue generated by our national television networks depends on the viewership ratings as determined by Nielsen Media Research and other third-party research companies and the advertising rates paid by advertisers for the company to deliver advertisements to certain viewer demographics.  

HGTV, Food Network, and Cooking Channel and their targeted home and food programming categories appeal strongly to women viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range and 25 to 54 age range, audience demographics that are traditionally valued by advertisers. Travel Channel and its targeted travel based programming appeal to viewers who are more affluent than the average cable viewer and skews slightly toward adult men in the 18 to 49 age range. GAC appeals to women viewers, while DIY Network typically has a higher percentage of adult male viewers. Advertising revenue can fluctuate relative to the popularity of specific programs, blocks of programming during defined periods of the day and seasonal demand of advertisers.  

Affiliate fee revenues are negotiated with individual cable television and direct-to-home satellite operators and other distributors. The negotiations typically result in multi-year carriage agreements with scheduled, graduated rate increases. As an incentive to obtain long-term distribution agreements for our networks, we have made cash payments to cable and direct-to-home satellite operators, provided an initial period during which a distributor’s affiliate fee payments are waived, or both. The amount of the fee we receive is determined by the number of subscribers with access to our network programming.  

Programming expense, employee costs, and sales and marketing expenses are the primary operating costs of our Lifestyle Media segment. Program amortization represented 43 percent of Lifestyle Media expenses in 2011 reflecting our continued investment in the improved quality and variety of programming on our networks. We incur sales and marketing expenses to support brand-building initiatives at all of our television networks.  

As consumer acceptance of high-definition television grows, the Company is developing an increasing amount of original programming in high-definition format. Lifestyle Media operates five high-definition channels, HGTV-HD, Food Network-HD,  

Travel Channel-HD, DIY Network-HD and Cooking Channel-HD. The Company’s high-definition television networks are accessible by an estimated 50 million U.S. households.  

The Company’s lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses are focused on the internal development and acquisition of interactive media brands that are intended to diversify sources of revenue and enhance our competitive advantage as a leading provider of food, home, travel and lifestyle content. Revenue generated by our lifestyle interactive businesses is derived primarily from the sale of display, banner, rich media and video advertising.  

The lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses consist of multiple websites, including our six network-branded websites, FoodNetwork.com, HGTV.com, TravelChannel.com, DIYNetwork.com, CookingChanneltv.com and GACTV.com. In addition to serving as the home websites for the segment’s television programming networks, the websites provide informational and instructional content on specific topics within their broader lifestyle content categories. Features such as HGTV KitchenDesign, HGTV BathDesign, and DIY Network Home Improvement are intended to aggregate engaged audiences with interests in specific lifestyle topics. All of the segment’s interactive businesses benefit from archived television network programming of which approximately 95 percent is owned by the Company. Our ownership of programming enables us to efficiently and economically repurpose it for use on the Internet and other interactive distribution channels, including mobile and video-on-demand.  

The lifestyle websites also consist of other digital services including HGTVRemodels.com (formerly HGTVPro.com), which appeals to construction professionals and advanced do-it-yourself enthusiasts; Food.com (formerly Recipezaar.com), a recipe-sharing social networking website; FrontDoor.com, a local real estate search and consumer information site that features millions of home listings and thousands of videos. The lifestyle websites accounted for about 5 percent of the segment’s total revenue in 2011. The strategic focus of the lifestyle interactive businesses is to grow advertising revenues by increasing the number of page views and video plays and attracting more unique visitors to our websites through site enhancements and adding more video. Our strategy also includes attracting a broader audience through the placement of our video programming on national video streaming sites, and developing new sources of revenue that capitalize on traffic growth at our websites.  

Food Network  

Food Network is a leading cable and satellite television network that has been credited with redefining the television food genre. The network engages viewers with likable hosts and personalities who explore interesting and different ways to approach food and food-related topics. Food Network is available in 100 million U.S. television households and its programming can be seen internationally in 226 countries and territories. The Company currently owns approximately 69 percent of the Food Network and is the managing partner. The Tribune Company has a noncontrolling interest of approximately 31 percent in Food Network.  

 4 

Table of Contents 

Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested in food-related topics such as food preparation, dining out, entertaining, food manufacturing, nutrition and healthy eating. Food Network engages audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative.  

Food Network maintained its strong viewership ratings in 2011. Programming highlights included Food Network Star; Diners, Drive-ins and Dives; Restaurant Impossible; and Chopped. Many of the programs on Food Network feature or are hosted by high-profile television personalities such as Bobby Flay, Rachael Ray, Giada De Laurentiis, Alton Brown, Guy Fieri and Paula Deen.  

HGTV  

HGTV is America’s leader in home television programming and is one of cable and satellite television’s top-rated networks. HGTV reaches about 99 million domestic households via cable and direct satellite television services. The network’s programming also can be seen in 210 countries and territories.  

HGTV television programming content commands an audience interested specifically in home and shelter-related topics. HGTV is television’s only network dedicated solely to such topics as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate. HGTV strives to engage audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative.  

The network was a top rated cable network in 2011 with solid prime-time ratings. Programming highlights included HGTV Design Star, House Hunters, and House Hunters International. The network also has developed successful programming events, including the HGTV Dream Home Giveaway, HGTV Green Home Giveaway, HGTV Urban Oasis Giveaway, annual live coverage of the Rose Bowl Parade and successful competition programming like Design Star and All American Handyman.  

Travel Channel  

We acquired a controlling interest in the Travel Channel business in December 2009, giving the Company its third fully-distributed lifestyle network. Travel Channel is a leading travel multi-media brand, offering quality television, video and mobile entertainment and information to travel enthusiasts. The network has grown into one of the largest specialty cable networks in the U.S., available in 95 million domestic television households.  

Programming highlights in 2011 included Anthony Bourdain: No Reservations, Andrew Zimmern’s Bizarre World, and Ghost Adventures. Many of the programs on Travel Channel feature or are hosted by high-profile television personalities such as Anthony Bourdain, Andrew Zimmern, and Adam Richman.  

DIY Network  

DIY Network is America’s only television network dedicated solely to presenting entertaining and informational programming and content across a broad range of do-it-yourself categories including home building, home improvement, crafts, gardening, and landscaping. The network is available in approximately 57 million U.S. households via cable and direct-to-home satellite television services.  

Cooking Channel  

The Cooking Channel launched in May 2010 to take advantage of the expanding interest in food and cooking programming in the United States. Cooking Channel is a 24-hour network that caters to avid food lovers by focusing on food information and instructional cooking programming. Offered in both standard and high definition, the network delivers content focused on baking, ethnic cuisine, wine and spirits, healthy and vegetarian cooking and kids’ foods. Cooking Channel is available in about 58 million households.  

Great American Country (GAC)  

Distributed in the U.S. via cable and direct-to-home satellite television services, the network reaches about 62 million households with original programming, special musical performances and live concerts. The network strives to provide its viewers with a more focused country music experience.  

FoodNetwork.com  

FoodNetwork.com is a top food and cooking destination on the web. FoodNetwork.com has more than 45,000 professionally tested recipes from celebrity chefs, plus star menus, instructional videos and photo galleries. The site collaborates with the television network in the development of popular shows such as Food Network Star. Fans of the show can vote to ensure their favorite contestant wins a series on the web, and they can find online-only information in the form of contestant bios, judges’ blogs and more. FoodNetwork.com also develops original programming around holidays such as Thanksgiving and Christmas, as well as seasonal events like tailgating and grilling.  

Food.com  

Food.com is a social network website that’s home to a community of passionate everyday cooks. It provides an online, interactive platform to collaborate, exchange, and celebrate cooking. With 460,000 recipes, the site is one of the largest cooking resources on the web.  

 5 

Table of Contents 

CookingChannelTV.com 

CookingChannelTV.com includes information and recipes on global cuisines and cooking techniques. Experts provide detailed information on topics that include unconventional how-tos, global cuisine, wines and spirits, international travel, and food history.  

HGTV.com  

HGTV.com is the nation’s leading online home-and-garden destination, with makeovers, how-tos and thousands of designer photos. The website has more than 5.5 million unique visitors a month. The site features popular giveaways like HGTV Dream Home, HGTV Green Home and Urban Oasis and blogs like “The Design Happens”. HGTV.com also contains thousands of room design examples in “Designers’ Portfolio” as well as content from the kid-friendly “Family Gardening Club” and the tip-oriented “Help Around the Home.”  

DIYnetwork.com  

DIYnetwork.com is a website for “how-to” information on home improvement and repairs. The site consistently ranks among America’s top home and garden Internet destinations. The website features step-by-step instructions for home improvement projects, including more than 20,000 resources and more than 10,000 short-form videos. The site features a selection of video tips, an interactive program guide, episode finder, message boards, blogs and more. Also, included on the site are the interactive online experiences of DIY Network’s Blog Cabin Giveaway and Run My Renovation which provide consumers with a detailed look at building or remodeling of a home.  

Travelchannel.com  

TravelChannel.com provides an engaging, content rich user experience integrated with on-air programming. The site, which averages about 1.5 million unique visitors per month, reaches audiences across multiple platforms and devices, enabling users to download Travel Channel games and apps, as well as curate their own excursions, modeled after our programming through key partnerships with Oyster.com and Tripology.com. In 2011, TravelChannel.com introduced new digital franchises including “The Daily Escape,” “This Week in Photos,” and “Hosts Exposed”.  

International  

The Company also is executing its growth strategy internationally and seeks to become a world leader in lifestyle media and brand-related products and services. The Company initiated its international strategy with the launch of Food Network on B-Sky-B in the United Kingdom, reaching 10 million households. Recently, the company expanded the reach of Food Network UK’s primetime block by making it available on Freeview, a leading digital terrestrial television provider in the UK. This made Food Network UK available to almost every television household in the UK (approximately 26 million households) during primetime. Food Network is also distributed in other European markets as well as the Middle East and Africa. The Company is considering entering or creating partnerships in other international markets including Asia-Pacific, India and Latin America. In 2011 the company acquired 50% of UKTV, a television entity that is co-owned by the BBC, and represents a portfolio of 10 general entertainment and lifestyle channels in the UK, including popular channels in the home and food categories. The company also continues to partner with Shaw Communications on three very popular lifestyle channels in Canada: HGTV Canada, Food Network Canada and DIY Network Canada.  

Our international businesses earn revenues primarily from advertising sales, affiliate fees, and the licensing of programming to third parties. Programming expense, employee costs, and sales and marketing expenses are the primary operating costs of our international businesses.  

Competition  

Cable and satellite network programming is a highly competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. Our cable and satellite networks and websites generally compete for advertising revenue with other cable and broadcast television networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media. Our networks and websites also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, competitors’ pay and basic cable television networks, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, online  

 6 

Table of Contents 

 activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. Our networks also compete with other television networks for distribution and affiliate fees derived from distribution agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators and other distributors.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 1,800 full-time equivalent employees, of whom approximately 1,700 were with Lifestyle Media.  

 7 

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors