Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

 Interest Rate Risk  

 We do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. Our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. Floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. Fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates.  

 We manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. The major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions.  

 Fiscal 2014  

 As of June 28, 2014, we had $130.0 million of commercial paper outstanding. Total debt as of June 28, 2014 was $2.8 billion, of which approximately 74% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreement.  

 In August 2013, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $500.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2018 (the fiscal 2018 swap) to floating rate debt. This transaction was entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost. The major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions.  This transaction was designated as a fair value hedges since the swap hedges against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates. As of June 28, 2014, the fiscal 2018 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $4.8 million. The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 5.25% and the floating interest rate on the swap is six-month LIBOR which resets every six months in arrears.   

 In January 2014, in contemplation of securing financing and hedging interest rate risk relating to our assumption or refinancing of US Foods Inc. net debt that will occur upon closing of the proposed merger (discussed in Note 4, “Acquisitions”), we entered into two forward starting swap agreements with notional amounts totaling of $2.0 billion. We designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on 10-year and 30-year debt expected to be issued in fiscal 2015. These forward starting swaps were recognized as a liability within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within accrued expenses of $133.5 million.  

 49  

 The following tables present our interest rate position as of June 28, 2014. All amounts are stated in United States (U.S.) dollar equivalents.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1)    Includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Rate A – six-month LIBOR  

 Rate B - Fixed rate on $1.0 billion swap on 10-year forecasted debt expected to be issued in fiscal 2015 is 3.381%. Fixed rate on $1.0 billion swap on 30-year forecasted debt expected to be issued in fiscal 2015 is 3.896%.  

 Rate C – three-month LIBOR  

 50  

 Fiscal 2013  

 As of June 29, 2013, we had $95.5 million of commercial paper outstanding. Total debt as of June 29, 2013 was $2.9 billion, of which approximately 88% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreement.  

 In fiscal 2010, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $200 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 (the fiscal 2014 swap) to floating rate debt. This transaction was entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and was designated as a fair value hedge since the swap hedges against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates. As of June 29, 2013, the fiscal 2014 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within prepaid expenses and other current assets of $3.0 million. The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month LIBOR which resets quarterly.    

 The following tables present our interest rate position as of June 29, 2013. All amounts are stated in U.S. dollar equivalents.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1)    Includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Rate A – three-month LIBOR  

 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

 The majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. To the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary’s functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. We will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders’ equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. Our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. The exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars negatively impacted sales by 0.7% in fiscal 2014 when compared to fiscal 2013. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales in fiscal 2013 when compared to fiscal 2012.  The impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2014 or fiscal 2013. A 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2014 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2014 sales by 1.1% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. We do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks.  

 51  

 Fuel Price Risk  

 Due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. The price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. Increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. First, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. Second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. Third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. During each of fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.7% of sales. Fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by Sysco increased by approximately $16.5 million in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013 and by $18.9 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012.  

 Our activities to mitigate fuel costs include reducing miles driven by our trucks through our routing optimization project, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges. We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. As of June 28, 2014, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $187 million through June 2015. These contracts will lock in the price of approximately 60% to 65% of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices slightly lower than the current market price for diesel. Our remaining fuel purchase needs will occur at market rates unless contracted for a fixed price at a later date. Using current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel and estimates of fuel consumption, a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price would result in a potential increase of $20 million to $30 million in our fuel costs.  

 Investment Risk  

 Our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) holds investments in public and private equity, fixed income securities and real estate funds. The amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan’s assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability.  Fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan’s funded status is measured. Also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. To the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years. A 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored Retirement Plan at the plan’s fiscal year end (December 31, 2013) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2015; however, this unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2015 by $31.0 million and would reduce our shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet as of June 28, 2014 by $181.0 million.  

 52  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data