Item 1A. Risk Factors  

 The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in this report. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive, but is designed to highlight what we believe are the most significant factors to consider when evaluating our business. These factors could cause our future results to differ from our expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements identified on page 48 and from historical trends.   

 Merger-Related Risks  

 The closing and consummation of the merger with US Foods, Inc. (US Foods) is subject to regulatory approval and the satisfaction of certain conditions, and we cannot predict whether the necessary conditions will be satisfied or waived and the requisite regulatory approvals received.   

 The completion of the merger with US Foods is subject to regulatory approvals, including anti-trust approval, and customary conditions, including, without limitation:   

   ·    the approval of the stockholders of US Foods; 

   ·    the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended;  

   ·    the accuracy of the representations and warranties in the merger agreement and compliance with the respective covenants of the parties, subject to certain qualifiers;  

   ·    the absence of any law, proceeding, order or injunction that prohibits the consummation of the merger;  

   ·    the absence of certain governmental actions;  

   ·    the absence of a material adverse effect on US Foods; and  

   ·    the receipt by US Foods of a customary tax opinion with respect to the merger.  

 Sysco and US Foods may fail to secure the requisite approvals in a timely manner or on terms desired or anticipated, and the merger with US Foods may not close in the anticipated time frame, if at all. Sysco has no control over certain conditions in the merger agreement, and cannot predict whether such conditions will be satisfied or waived. Regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the merger or require changes to the terms of the transaction. Such conditions or changes may prevent the closing of the merger or cause the merger to be delayed, and delays may cause Sysco to incur additional, potentially burdensome transaction costs.   

 Sysco and US Foods may be required to accept certain remedies in order to obtain regulatory approval for the merger, and any such remedies could reduce the projected benefits of the merger and negatively impact the combined company.  

 The imposition of remedies as a condition to obtaining regulatory approval for the transaction could limit the revenues of the combined company and negatively impact the combined company. The potential remedies may negatively impact the projected benefits of the proposed merger, along with the business, financial condition and competitiveness of Sysco, as the combined company. Even if regulatory approval for the merger is obtained, any remedies could result in the total revenues of the combined post-merger entity being less than the combined historical revenues of Sysco and US Foods.  

 Termination of the merger agreement or failure to consummate the merger with US Foods could adversely impact Sysco and, under certain conditions, could require Sysco to make a termination payment of $300 million, which could adversely impact Sysco’s stock price and would adversely impact Sysco’s liquidity and financial condition.   

 The merger agreement contains certain termination rights, including the right of either party to terminate the merger agreement if the merger has not occurred by March 8, 2015, subject to extension under certain circumstances. Furthermore, if the merger agreement is terminated due to a failure to obtain required antitrust approvals, in certain circumstances Sysco will be required to pay US Foods a termination fee of $300 million. The payment of such fee would have an adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. In addition, if the merger agreement is terminated, we may suffer other negative consequences. Our business may be negatively impacted by our management having focused its attention on acquiring US Foods instead of pursuing other advantageous business opportunities or plans. Furthermore, we will incur substantial expenses and costs related to the merger, whether or not it is consummated, including legal, accounting and advisory fees. Also, failure to consummate the merger may result in negative market reactions, and may have an adverse impact on Sysco’s stock price and future financial results.   

 6  

Business uncertainties during the pendency of the proposed merger may adversely impact our current business operations and relationships with employees, vendors and customers.   

 Prospective suppliers, customers or other third parties may delay or decline to enter into agreements with us as a result of the uncertainties surrounding the proposed merger, and we may also lose current suppliers and customers as a result of these uncertainties. Furthermore, uncertainties as to the effect of the merger transaction may adversely impact employee morale, and impede our ability to retain key employees. The loss of key employees or union-related work stoppages could impact our ability to successfully integrate the businesses of Sysco and US Foods and fully realize the anticipated benefits of the merger.   

 The pending merger and our current pre-merger integration planning efforts may divert resources from Sysco’s day-to-day operations and ongoing efforts related to other strategies and initiatives.  

 The pending merger and our current pre-merger integration planning efforts may divert our management’s attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives, including the initiatives related to our Business Transformation Project, which has and will continue to require a substantial amount of resources. The diversion of management attention from ongoing business operations and strategic efforts could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact Sysco’s business and operations.  

 The integration of the businesses of Sysco and US Foods may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the merger may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies.   

 The success of the merger between Sysco and US Foods, including the realization of the anticipated benefits, will depend, in part, on the ability of Sysco, as the combined company, to successfully integrate the businesses of Sysco and US Foods. Failure to effectively integrate the businesses could adversely impact the expected benefits of the merger, including cost synergies stemming from supply chain efficiencies, merchandising activities and overlapping general and administrative functions.   

 The integration of two large independent companies will be complex, and we will be required to devote significant management attention and incur substantial costs to integrate Sysco’s and US Foods’ business practices, policies, cultures and operations. This diversion of our management’s attention from day-to-day business operations and the execution and pursuit of strategic plans and initiatives, including the initiatives related to our Business Transformation Project, could result in performance shortfalls, which could adversely impact the combined company’s business, operations and financial results. The integration process could also result in the loss of key employees, which could adversely impact the combined company’s future financial results.   

 Furthermore, during the integration planning process and after the closing of the merger, we may encounter additional challenges and difficulties, including those related to, without limitation, managing a larger combined company; streamlining supply chains, consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating overlapping operations; retaining our existing vendors and customers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the merger or US Foods’ business. Delays encountered in the integration could adversely impact the business, financial condition and operations of the combined company.   

 We may not be able to retain some of US Foods’ vendors and customers after the proposed merger, which could negatively impact the anticipated benefits of the merger.  

 US Foods’ vendors or customers may have termination rights that are triggered upon completion of the merger, and such vendors or customers may decide to not renew their existing relationship with us, and may instead select one of our competitors. If we are unable to retain and maintain these vendor and customer relationships, then the business, financial condition and operations of Sysco, as the combined company, could be adversely impacted.  

 Consummation of the merger will require Sysco to incur significant additional indebtedness, which could adversely impact our financial condition and may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing and pursue other business and investment opportunities.   

 In connection with the merger, Sysco will assume or refinance all of US Foods’ outstanding debt, which was approximately $4.8 billion, as of June 28, 2014. Any refinancing of US Foods’ indebtedness is expected to be financed with a combination of new debt and cash on Sysco’s balance sheet. Sysco has secured fully committed bridge financing.   

 Incurrence of additional indebtedness could have negative consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and implement and pursue strategic initiatives and opportunities. Additionally, if we do not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the merger with US Foods, or if the financial performance of Sysco, as the combined company, does not meet current expectations, then our ability to service the debt will be adversely impacted. Our credit ratings may also be impacted as a result of the incurrence of additional acquisition-related indebtedness. Currently, certain credit rating agencies have put us on watch for a potential downgrade.   

 7  

The merger will dilute the ownership interests of Sysco’s existing stockholders.   

 At the time of the consummation of the proposed merger, Sysco will issue approximately 87 million shares, or roughly 13% of Sysco’s outstanding common stock after the transaction is completed. As a result, the ownership amounts of Sysco’s pre-merger stockholders will be diluted. Generally, dilution will impact a stockholder’s ownership percentage and ability to influence voting results, and will likely reduce earnings per share, which could impact stock price.  

 Industry and General Economic Risks  

 Periods of significant or prolonged inflation or deflation affect our product costs and may negatively impact our profitability.   

 Volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. Periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. In addition, periods of rapidly increasing inflation may negatively impact our business due to the timing needed to pass on such increases, the impact of such inflation on discretionary spending by consumers and our limited ability to increase prices in the current, highly competitive environment. Conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of product cost deflation, because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage margin. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant.   

 Our results of operations and financial condition may be directly, adversely affected by unfavorable conditions in the US economy and local markets, as well as negative trends in consumer confidence.  

 The foodservice distribution industry, which is characterized by relatively low profit margins with limited demand growth expected in the near-term, is especially susceptible to negative trends and economic uncertainty. The United States (U.S.) has experienced an uneven economic environment over the past several years. Despite job growth experiencing a positive trend, it has yet to translate into a significant impact on overall unemployment. The housing segment is struggling to maintain consistent, positive trends, and this segment historically has been a key driver of economic growth. These factors indicate that consumer disposable income is increasing modestly. In addition, our results of operations are substantially affected by local operating and economic conditions, which can vary substantially by market. The difficult economic conditions can affect us in the following ways:  

   ·    Unfavorable conditions can depress sales and/or gross margins in a given market.  

   ·    Food cost and fuel cost inflation experienced by the consumer can lead to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases, which could negatively impact our business by reducing demand for our products.  

   ·    Heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affects consumer confidence and discretionary spending, which can cause disruptions with our customers and suppliers. 

   ·    Liquidity issues and the inability of our customers, vendors and suppliers to consistently access credit markets to obtain cash to support operations can cause temporary interruptions in our ability to conduct day-to-day transactions involving the payment to or collection of funds from our customers, vendors and suppliers. 

 The uncertainty in the economic environment has adversely affected the rate of improvement in both business and consumer confidence and spending, and uncertainty about the long-term investment environment could further depress capital investment and economic activity.    

 Competition in our industry may adversely impact our margins and our ability to retain customers, and makes it difficult for us to maintain our market share, growth rate and profitability.   

 The foodservice distribution industry is fragmented and highly competitive, with local, regional, multi-regional distributors and specialty competitors. Furthermore, barriers to entry by new competitors, or geographic or product line expansion by existing competitors, are low. Additionally, increased competition from non-traditional sources (such as club stores and commercial wholesale outlets with lower cost structures), and group purchasing organizations have served to further increase pressure on the industry’s profit margins, and continued margin pressure within the industry may have a material adverse impact on our operating results and profitability. Finally, demand for food-away-from-home products is volatile and price sensitive, imposing limits on our customers’ ability to absorb cost increases. New and increased competitive sources may result in increased focus on pricing and on limiting price increases, or may require increased discounting. Such competition or other industry pressures may result in margin erosion and/or make it difficult for us to attract and retain customers.   

 Although our sales historically have grown faster than the market, industry growth rates have slowed over the past several years, and industry sources expect the lower growth rates to continue in the near-term. These trends have placed pressure on our profit margins and made it more difficult to leverage our cost structure and pass along cost increases. We expect these trends to continue for   

 8  

the foreseeable future. If we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors, our market share, sales and profitability, through increased expenditures or decreased prices, could be adversely impacted.   

 We may not be able to fully compensate for increases in fuel costs, and forward purchase commitments intended to contain fuel costs could result in above market fuel costs.   

 Volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. We require significant quantities of fuel for our delivery vehicles and are exposed to the risk associated with fluctuations in the market price for fuel. The price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. On average, on-highway diesel fuel prices decreased approximately 1% in fiscal 2014 and increased approximately 2% in 2013, respectively, as compared to the prior year. The cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products, as well as the costs we incur to deliver products to our customers. Although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we will continue to be able to do so in the future. If fuel costs increase further in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current forward price for diesel. If fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases may prove ineffective and result in our paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel.   

 Business and Operational Risks  

 Our ability to meet our long-term strategic objectives to grow the profitability of our business depends largely on the success of the Business Transformation Project.   

 Our multi-year Business Transformation Project consists of:  

   ·    the design and deployment of an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations;  

   ·    initiatives to lower our cost structure; and 

   ·    initiatives to lower our product costs.  

 Successfully managing deployment is critical to our business success. While we expect all of the components of the Business Transformation Project to enhance our value proposition to customers and suppliers and improve our long-term profitability, there can be no assurance that we will realize our expectations within the time frame we have established, if at all.  

 The actual cost of the ERP system may be greater than currently expected and continued delays in the execution of deployment may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

 ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. Our cost estimates related to our ERP system are based on assumptions which are subject to wide variability, require a great deal of judgment, and are inherently uncertain. Thus, the actual costs of the project in fiscal 2015 (and beyond) may be greater than currently expected. We have encountered, and we may continue to encounter, the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including incurring expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated. For example, we deployed our ERP system to five additional locations in fiscal 2014 and are continuing to experience improved functionality in many areas compared to past deployments; however, while the majority of the system functionality is performing as designed, we have continued to identify issues that we want to address before we continue deploying to additional locations.   

 In addition, implementation of the ERP system requires significant management attention and resources over an extended period of time and any significant design errors or delays in the implementation of the systems could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, because the implementation is expected to continue to involve a significant financial commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may also be adversely affected if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits at the levels that we anticipate. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to realize the intended results of the system software and implementation activities.   

 We may not realize anticipated benefits from our operating cost reduction efforts.   

 We have implemented a number of cost reduction initiatives that we believe are necessary to position our business for future success and growth. Our future success and earnings growth will be significantly impacted by our ability to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity and low growth rates. A variety of factors could cause us not to realize some of the expected cost savings,   

 9  

including, among other things, delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings initiatives, lack of sustainability in cost savings over time and unexpected costs associated with operating our business. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. Furthermore, even if we realize the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction efforts, we may experience an adverse impact on our employees, customers and suppliers, which could negatively affect our sales and profits.  

 We may not realize the full anticipated benefits from our category management initiative.  

 We are in the midst of deploying our category management initiative which encompasses a rigorous process whereby we use market data and customer insights to optimize the product assortment available to our customers, strengthen strategic relationships with our suppliers, drive product innovation and increase our sales and profit margins. If our sales associates are not able to effectively gain acceptance of the new product assortment from our customers or are not able to absorb the significant administrative and process changes required, then we may not be able to successfully execute the category management initiative in the timeline we anticipate and we may not capture all of the financial and other benefits that we anticipate.  

 Conditions beyond our control can interrupt our supplies and increase our product costs.   

 We obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third-party suppliers. For the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us; however, we believe the number of long-term contracts will increase as we progress with our category management initiative. Although our purchasing volume can provide benefits when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. We are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. These conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop and other agricultural conditions, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, product recalls, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). Further, increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. Input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors.  

 Adverse publicity about us or lack of confidence in our products could negatively impact our reputation and reduce earnings.   

 Maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling Sysco Brand products. The Sysco brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. Anything that damages our reputation or the public’s confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety, sustainability or integrity of our products or relating to activities by our operations, employees, suppliers or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand, and could adversely affect our revenues and profits.   

 Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis, salmonella, listeria or swine flu) and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public’s confidence in our products. If patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns (even those unrelated to the use of Sysco products), or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically.   

 Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our products and services. This reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, will have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. Our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if our public image or reputation were to be tarnished by negative publicity including dissemination via print, broadcast or social media, or other forms of Internet-based communications. Adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and image, undermine our customers’ confidence and reduce short-term or long-term demand for our products and services, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Any of these events could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition.  

 10  

 If sales to our locally-managed customers grow at a lower rate than sales to our corporate-managed customers, our operating margins may decline and our corporate-managed customers will increase their proportion of our total sales, thus subjecting us to greater risk if we lose one or more of these customers and possibly enabling these larger customers to exert greater pressure on us to reduce our prices and/or expand our services.  

 Our sales to corporate-managed customers have generally grown at a faster rate than our sales to locally-managed locations. Gross margin from our corporate-managed customers is generally lower than that of our locally-managed customers because we typically sell higher volumes of products to these customers and provide a relatively lower level of value-added services than we do to locally-managed customers. If sales to our locally-managed customers do not grow at the same or a greater rate as sales to our corporate-managed customers, our operating margins may decline.  

 Moreover, if sales to our corporate-managed customers increase at a faster pace of growth than sales to our locally-managed customers, we will become more dependent on corporate-managed customers as they begin to represent a greater proportion of our total sales. Additionally, the loss of sales to the larger of these corporate-managed customers could have a material negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, as a result of our greater dependence on these customers, we could be pressured by them to lower our prices and/or offer expanded or additional services at the same prices. In that event, we would need to achieve additional cost savings to offset these price reductions and/or cost increases or our gross margins and profitability could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to change our cost structure and pricing practices rapidly enough to successfully compete in such an environment.  

 Expanding into international markets and complementary lines of business presents unique challenges, and our expansion efforts with respect to international operations and complementary lines of business may not be successful.   

 In addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets and the establishment of international procurement organizations. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations thereof may have an adverse impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations.   

 Another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complementary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. Our ability to successfully operate in these complementary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. Risks inherent in branching out into such complementary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets.  

 If we fail to comply with requirements imposed by applicable law or other governmental regulations, we could become subject to lawsuits, investigations and other liabilities and restrictions on our operations that could significantly and adversely affect our business.   

 We are subject to governmental regulation at the federal, state, international, national, provincial and local levels in many areas of our business, such as food safety and sanitation, minimum wage, overtime, wage payment, wage and hour and employment discrimination, immigration, human health and safety, and due to the services we provide in connection with governmentally funded entitlement programs. From time to time, both federal and state governmental agencies have conducted audits of our billing practices as part of investigations of providers of services under governmental contracts, or otherwise. We also receive requests for information from governmental agencies in connection with these audits. While we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot represent that we are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations.   

 If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations or encounter disagreements with respect to our contracts subject to governmental regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, prohibitions on exporting, seizures or debarments from contracting with the government. The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance, including debarments, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, governmental units may make changes in the regulatory frameworks within which we operate that may require either the corporation as a whole or individual businesses to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations.   

 11  

 Product liability claims could materially impact our business.  

 We, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by Sysco causes injury or illness. We cannot be sure that consumption of our products will not cause a health-related illness in the future or that we will not be subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Further, even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or injury could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. With respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. However, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If Sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share.   

 We must finance and integrate acquired businesses effectively.  

 Historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may be materially adversely impacted. Integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from Sysco’s. A significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. Significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt-to-equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments. See “--The integration of the businesses of Sysco and US Foods may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected, and the merger may not result in any or all of the anticipated benefits, including cost synergies.”  

 We need access to borrowed funds in order to grow, and any default by us under our indebtedness could have a material adverse impact on cash flow and liquidity.  

 A substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. We anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. As a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. Moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock. See “--Consummation of the merger will require Sysco to incur significant additional indebtedness, which could adversely impact our financial condition and may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing and pursue other business and investment opportunities.”  

 Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position.  

 As of June 28, 2014, we had approximately $3 billion of total indebtedness. We have a Board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billion; a revolving credit facility supporting our U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs in the amount of $1.5 billion set to expire on December 29, 2018; certain uncommitted bank lines of credit providing for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $95.0 million; and a €100.0 million (Euro) multicurrency revolving credit facility for use by our Irish subsidiary set to expire September 24, 2014, which is subject to extension. Our indebtedness may further increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, working capital needs, capital expenditures and potential acquisitions or joint ventures. Our increased level of indebtedness and the ultimate cost of such indebtedness could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of capital and financial results. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and any alternative financing measures available may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. See “--Consummation of the merger will require Sysco to incur significant additional indebtedness, which could adversely impact our financial condition and may hinder our ability to obtain additional financing and pursue other business and investment opportunities.”  

 Our liquidity can be negatively impacted by payments required to appeal tax assessments with certain tax jurisdictions.   

 Certain tax jurisdictions require partial to full payment of audit assessments or the posting of letters of credit in order to proceed to the appeals process. Sysco has posted approximately $32.5 million in letters of credit in order to appeal the Canadian Revenue Agency assessments of transfer pricing adjustments relating to our cross border procurement activities through our former purchasing cooperative on our 2004 and 2005 fiscal years. If assessed on later years currently under examination using these same positions, we could have to pay cash or post additional letters of credit of as much as $129.0 million, in order to appeal these further assessments. If significant further payments are required, the company’s financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected.   

 12  

We rely on technology in our business and any technology disruption or delay in implementing new technology could have a material negative impact on our business.   

  Our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. We use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks, to make purchases, manage our warehouses and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. Any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs and lower profits.   

 Furthermore, process changes will be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement the ERP system. While Sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits.   

 A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers.   

 We use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. We also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, business partners and our customers. Such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers’ and suppliers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. Further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. Additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage.   

 We may be required to pay material amounts under multiemployer defined benefit pension plans.  

  We contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. Approximately 10% of our current employees are participants in such multiemployer plans. In fiscal 2014, our total contributions to these plans were approximately $76 million, which included payments for withdrawal liabilities of $41 million. The costs of providing benefits through such plans have increased in recent years. The amount of any increase or decrease in our required contributions to these multiemployer plans will depend upon many factors, including the outcome of collective bargaining, actions taken by trustees who manage the plans, government regulations, the actual return on assets held in the plans and the potential payment of a withdrawal liability if we choose to exit. Based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multiemployer plans are underfunded. The unfunded liabilities of these plans may result in increased future payments by us and the other participating employers. Underfunded multiemployer pension plans may impose a surcharge requiring additional pension contributions. Our risk of such increased payments may be greater if any of the participating employers in these underfunded plans withdraws from the plan due to insolvency and is not able to contribute an amount sufficient to fund the unfunded liabilities associated with its participants in the plan. Based on the latest information available from plan administrators, we estimate our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on the multiemployer plans in which we participate could have been as much as $245 million as of June 28, 2014. A significant increase to funding requirements could adversely affect the company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.   

 Our funding requirements for our company-sponsored qualified pension plan may increase should financial markets experience future declines.  

 At the end of fiscal 2012, we decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) as of December 31, 2012 for all U.S.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. Effective January 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. While these actions will serve to limit future growth in our pension liabilities, we had a sizable pension obligation of $3.2 billion as of June 28, 2014; therefore, financial market factors could impact our funding requirements. Although recent pension funding relief legislation has served to defer some required funding, additional contributions may be required if our plan is not fully funded when the provisions that provided the relief are phased out. See Note 14, “Company-Sponsored Employee Benefit Plans” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of the funded status of the Retirement Plan.   

 13  

The amount of our annual contribution to the Retirement Plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the Retirement Plan’s assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability. Our Retirement Plan holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. Fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase. The projected liability of the Retirement Plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our minimum funding requirements. Specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our funding obligations. To the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our required contributions may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity.   

 Failure to successfully renegotiate union contracts could result in work stoppages.  

 As of June 28, 2014, approximately 8,800 employees at 52 operating companies were members of 59 different local unions associated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and other labor organizations. In fiscal 2015, 13 agreements covering approximately 1,900 employees have expired or will expire. Since June 28, 2014, there have been no contract renegotiations. Failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. Although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us.   

 A shortage of qualified labor could negatively impact our business and materially reduce earnings.  

 The future success of our operations, including the achievement of our strategic objectives, depends on our ability to identify, recruit, develop and retain qualified and talented individuals, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. Our employee recruitment, development and retention efforts may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified individuals in future periods. Any such shortage would decrease Sysco’s ability to effectively serve our customers and achieve our strategic objectives. Such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings.  

 Our authorized preferred stock provides anti-takeover benefits that may not be viewed as beneficial to stockholders.  

 Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Sysco’s Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire Sysco without approval of the Board of Directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. In addition, if anyone attempts to acquire Sysco without approval of the Board of Directors of Sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the Board of Directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. As a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of Sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

 None.  

 14  

 Item 2. Properties