Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

 Our discussion below of our results includes certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide important perspective with respect to underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the performance of the company’s underlying operations and facilitates comparison on a year-over-year basis. Other than free cash flow, any non-GAAP financial measure will be denoted as an adjusted measure and exclude the impact from executive retirement plans restructuring, multiemployer pension withdrawals, severance charges, merger and integration costs associated with our pending US Foods, Inc. (US Foods) merger, change in estimate for self-insurance costs, charges from a liability for a settlement, facility closure charges, amortization of US Foods financing costs and an acquisition related charge specific to fiscal 2013, collectively defined as (Certain Items). The comparison of our fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 periods also excludes the impact of our Business Transformation Project. More information on the rationale for the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.”  

 Due to the inherent uncertainties concerning the impact of the pending US Foods acquisition (see discussion in Risk Factors in Part 1, Item 1A.), it is impracticable for us to provide projections that fully anticipate all possible impacts of the acquisition. For that reason, forward-looking disclosures in this MD&A and elsewhere describe anticipated future trends and results of only our current operations, excluding any potential impact from the US Foods acquisition unless specifically noted.  

 Overview  

 Sysco distributes food and related products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. Our operations are primarily located throughout the United States (U.S.), Bahamas, Canada, Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland and include broadline companies (which include our custom-cut meat operations), SYGMA (our chain restaurant distribution subsidiary), specialty produce companies, hotel supply operations, a company that distributes specialty imported products, a company that distributes to international customers and our Sysco Ventures platform, our suite of technology solutions that help support the business needs of our customers.  

 We consider our primary market to be the foodservice market in the U.S., Canada and Ireland and estimate that we serve about 17.4% of this approximately $255 billion annual market based on a measurement as of the end of calendar 2013. We use industry data obtained from various sources including Technomic, Inc., the Canadian Restaurant and Foodservices Association and the Irish Food Board to calculate this measurement. Industry sources adjust measurements of the market size periodically to align with governmental census data. As a result, our measurement used for calendar 2012 was adjusted to 17.1%. According to industry sources, the foodservice, or food-away-from-home, market represents approximately 48% of the total dollars spent on food purchases made at the consumer level in the U.S. as of the end of calendar 2013.   

 Industry sources estimate the total foodservice market in the U.S. experienced a real sales increase of approximately 1.1% in calendar year 2013 and 1.2% in calendar year 2012. Real sales changes do not include the impact of inflation or deflation.  

 Highlights  

 The foodservice industry remained under pressure in fiscal 2014. While the economy continues to slowly recover, the magnitude of recovery is modest and the outlook for certain fundamental drivers of the economy is mixed. This creates a challenging business environment for us and our customers; however, we continue to implement transformational change on a broad scale which is enhancing the products and services we provide our customers and helping us to operate more efficiently. Our sales and gross profits grew modestly, and our expense management performance was favorable overall despite cost pressures in our delivery operations. Our improvements largely resulted from our Business Transformation Project initiatives, which helped drive our North American Broadline cost per case lower than in fiscal 2013. The impact of Certain Items also contributed to lower operating income in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013.   

 Comparison of results from fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013:  

   ·    Sales increased 4.7%, or $2.1 billion to $46.5 billion. 

   ·    Operating income decreased 4.3%, or $71.4 million, to $1.6 billion. 

   ·    Adjusted operating income decreased 0.9%, or $16.2 million, to $1.7 billion. 

   ·    Net earnings decreased 6.1%, or $60.9 million, to $0.9 billion.  

   ·    Adjusted net earnings decreased 1.8%, or $19.4 million, to $1.0 billion. 

   ·    Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2014 was $1.59, a 5.4% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.68 per share. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2014 was $1.58, a 5.4% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.67 per share.  

   ·    Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $1.76 in fiscal 2014, a 1.1% decrease from the comparable prior year amount of $1.78 per share. 

 20  

 See “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” for an explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures.  

 In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we announced an agreement to merge with US Foods. This merger is currently pending a regulatory review process.  

 Trends and Strategy  

 Trends  

 General economic conditions and consumer confidence can affect the frequency of purchases and amounts spent by consumers for food-away-from-home and, in turn, can impact our customers and our sales. Consumers continue to spend their disposable income in an increasingly disciplined manner. We believe these conditions have contributed to a slow rate of recovery in the foodservice market. While these trends can be cyclical in nature, greater consumer confidence will be required to reverse the trend. According to industry sources, real sales growth for the total foodservice market in the U.S. is expected to be modest over the long-term. We believe these industry trends reinforce the need for us to transform our business to reduce our overall cost structure and provide greater value to our customers. Our long-term sales growth expectation is 4% to 6% annually, which assumes a modest rate of inflation similar to historical levels.  

 Our gross margin performance has been influenced by multiple factors. The modest level of growth in the foodservice market has created additional competitive pricing pressures which is in turn negatively impacting gross profits. Sales to our locally-managed customers, including independent restaurant customers, have not grown at the same rate as sales to our corporate-managed customers. Gross margin from our corporate-managed customers is generally lower than other types of customers due to higher volumes sold to these customers. Our locally-managed customers comprise a significant portion of our overall volumes and an even greater percentage of profitability because of the high level of value added services we typically provide to this customer group. As a result, our gross margins have declined. The disparity in the growth rate between these customer types moderated in the last half of fiscal 2014 with locally-managed sales growth trending at similar rates as corporate-managed customers. Inflation can be a factor that contributes to gross margin pressure. Our inflation rates were relatively stable over the first three quarters of fiscal 2014, however it increased in the fourth quarter, all quarters being compared to the past year. Fourth quarter fiscal 2014 inflation was seen primarily in the meat, seafood and dairy categories which represent more than one-third of our annual sales. While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at current levels, periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can be difficult to pass on to our customers and inflation can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit, operating income and earnings.   

 We have experienced higher operating expenses this fiscal year as compared to fiscal 2013, stemming from higher case volumes, some of which is attributable to our acquired operations, increased depreciation and amortization, increased delivery costs and higher corporate expenses. These were partially offset by lower Business Transformation Project expenses and benefits from Business Transformation Project initiatives. We have experienced a decrease in pay-related expenses in the selling and information technology areas due to initiatives from our Business Transformation Project. The benefits in the selling and information technology areas have largely been realized and are not expected to recur in fiscal 2015. Other areas of pay-related expense have increased primarily from acquired companies and within delivery areas of our business a portion of which can be attributable to volume increases. Our retirement-related expenses consist primarily of costs from our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan), our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP) and our defined contribution plan. Our Retirement Plan was substantially frozen and the SERP was completely frozen in fiscal 2013, and our defined contribution plan was enhanced with greater benefits. The net impact of these actions is a reduction in retirement-related costs for fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. The benefits in the retirement-related expense have largely been realized and the amount of cost decrease is not expected to recur at the same magnitude in fiscal 2015 as in fiscal 2014. Corporate office expenses have risen in fiscal 2014 and will continue to rise in fiscal 2015 as we expand our corporate capabilities including a new revenue management function, organizational changes that drive greater functional support in our broadline operations and additional investments in technology. We have incurred additional costs in connection with the proposed merger with US Foods announced in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily from integration planning and due diligence costs. We anticipate incurring additional costs as we begin planning for integration of the two companies as well as other financing costs incurred in connection with the proposed merger. The proposed merger is undergoing regulatory review by the Federal Trade Commission and we estimate the merger will close by the end of the third quarter or in the fourth quarter of calendar 2014.   

 Strategy   

 We are focused on optimizing our core broadline business in the U.S., Bahamas, Canada and Ireland, while continuing to explore appropriate opportunities to profitably grow our market share and create shareholder value by expanding beyond our core business. Day-to-day, our business decisions are driven by our mission to market and deliver great products to our customers with exceptional service, with the aspirational vision of becoming each of our customers’ most valued and trusted business partner. We have identified five components of our strategy to help us achieve our mission and vision:  

 21  

   ·    Profoundly enrich the experience of doing business with Sysco: Our primary focus is to help our customers succeed. We believe that by building on our current competitive advantages, we will be able to further differentiate our offering to customers. Our competitive advantages include our sales force of over 7,000 marketing associates; our diversified product base, which includes quality-assured Sysco brand products; the suite of services we provide to our customers such as business reviews and menu analysis; and our multi-regional presence in the U.S. and Canada. In addition, we have a portfolio of businesses spanning broadline, specialty meat, chain restaurant distribution, specialty produce, hotel amenities, specialty import and export which serves our customers’ needs across a wide array of business segments. Through our Sysco Ventures platform, we are developing a suite of technology solutions that help support the administrative needs of our customers. We believe this strategy of enriching the experience of doing business with Sysco will increase customer retention and profitably accelerate sales growth with both existing and new customers. 

   ·    Continuously improve productivity in all areas of our business: Our multi-year Business Transformation Project is designed to improve productivity and reduce costs. An integrated software system is included in this project and will support a majority of our business processes to further streamline our operations and reduce costs. These systems are commonly referred to as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems. We view the technology as an important enabler of this project; however the larger outcome of this project will be from transformed processes that standardize portions of our operations. This includes a shared business service center to centrally manage certain back-office functions that are currently performed at a majority of our operating companies. This project includes other components to lower our cost structure through improved productivity without impacting our service to our customers. We continue to optimize warehouse and delivery activities across the organization to achieve a more efficient delivery of products to our customers and we seek to improve sales productivity and lower general and administrative costs. We also have a product cost reduction and category management initiative to use market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment.  

   ·    Expand our portfolio of products and services by initiating a customer-centric innovation program: We continually explore opportunities to provide new and improved products, technologies and services to our customers.  

   ·    Explore, assess and pursue new businesses and markets: This strategy is focused on identifying opportunities to expand the core business through growth in new international markets and in adjacent areas that complement our core foodservice distribution business. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, joint ventures and sales of assets and businesses. 

   ·    Develop and effectively integrate a comprehensive, enterprise-wide talent management process: Our ability to drive results and grow our business is directly linked to having the best talent in the industry. We are committed to the continued enhancement of our talent management programs in terms of how we recruit, select, train and develop our associates throughout Sysco, as well as succession planning. Our ultimate objective is to provide our associates with outstanding opportunities for professional growth and career development.  

 The five components of our strategy discussed above are designed to drive sustainable profitable growth, increase asset optimization and free cash flow and increase operating margins. Consistent with these three objectives, in the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we announced an agreement to merge with US Foods. US Foods is a leading foodservice distributor in the U.S. that markets and distributes fresh, frozen and dry food and non-food products to more than 200,000 foodservice customers including independently owned single location restaurants, regional and national chain restaurants, healthcare and educational institutions, hotels and motels, government and military organizations and retail locations. Following the completion of the proposed merger, the combined company will continue to be named Sysco and headquartered in Houston, Texas. At closing, Sysco is expected to have annual sales of approximately $65 billion and with successful integration, we believe at least $600 million in estimated annual synergies can be obtained in the combined company over a three to four year time period. Expenses to achieve synergies are estimated to be $700 million to $800 million to occur over a three year time frame once the acquisition has closed. We anticipate some level of capital expenditures primarily for internal use software and other computer equipment; however, amounts have not been estimated at this time.   

 As of the time the merger agreement was announced in December 2013, Sysco agreed to pay approximately $3.5 billion for the equity of US Foods, comprised of $3 billion of Sysco common stock and $500 million of cash. As part of the transaction, Sysco will also assume or refinance US Foods’ net debt, which was approximately $4.7 billion as of September 28, 2013, bringing the total enterprise value to $8.2 billion at the time of the merger announcement. As of August 13, 2014, the merger consideration is estimated as follows: approximately $3.7 billion for the equity of US Foods, comprised of $3.2 billion of Sysco common stock valued using the seven day average through August 13, 2014 and $500 million of cash. US Foods' net debt to be assumed or refinanced was approximately $4.8 billion as of June 28, 2014, bringing the total enterprise value to $8.5 billion as of August 13, 2014. The value of Sysco’s common stock and the amount of US Foods’ net debt will fluctuate. As such, the components of the transaction and total enterprise value noted above will not be finalized until the merger is consummated.   

 22  

We have secured a fully committed bridge financing and expect to issue longer-term financing prior to closing. After completion of the transaction, the equity holders of US Foods will own approximately 87 million shares, or roughly 13%, of Sysco. A representative from each of US Foods’ two majority shareholders will join Sysco’s Board of Directors upon closing. This merger is currently pending a regulatory review process by the Federal Trade Commission. We expect the transaction to close by the end of the third quarter or in the fourth quarter of calendar 2014. Under certain conditions, including lack of regulatory approval, Sysco would be obligated to pay $300 million to the owners of US Foods if the merger were cancelled, which would be recognized as an expense.  

 Business Transformation Project  

 Our multi-year Business Transformation Project consists of:  

   ·    the design and deployment of an ERP system to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations;  

   ·    initiatives to lower our operating cost structure; and 

   ·    initiatives to lower our product cost including a category management initiative to use market data and customer insights to lower product pricing and enhance our product assortment to drive sales growth. 

 With respect to our ERP system, we successfully installed a major scheduled update to the system and have deployed the system to twelve locations as of the end of July 2014. In fiscal 2015, we will implement a software version upgrade, finalize information technology-related US Foods merger integration planning and sequencing decisions and enhance the scalability of our shared service center’s processes to prepare for more conversions in the future. Our goal with integration planning is to sequence the decisions of our ERP implementation to help us achieve the most synergies in a timely manner.  

 We are seeking to lower our operating cost structure through various initiatives. These include routing optimization to reduce routes and miles driven, while improving on-time deliveries. This initiative is expected to be complete by the end of fiscal 2015. We made substantial progress on our fleet and equipment optimization initiative aimed at reducing costs and optimizing our capital spend. We expect to complete the rationalization of our fleet by the end of fiscal 2015. Driver and warehouse pay structures are being enhanced including tools to more effectively manage labor costs. We are also piloting a program to increase the amount of recycled material in our operations. We expect to roll out this program across the country by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2015, which should also reduce costs.  

 We also seek to lower our product costs through various initiatives such as our category management initiative. This initiative is designed to lower our total product costs and to align our product assortment with customer demand. We are using market data and customer insights to make changes to our product assortment while building strategic partnerships with our suppliers to grow our sales and our suppliers’ sales. We believe there are opportunities to more effectively provide the products that our customers want, commit to greater volumes with our suppliers and create mutual benefits for all parties. We believe that procuring greater quantities with select vendors will result in reduced prices for our product purchases. In fiscal 2014, we launched several product categories, developed and implemented field-ready sales tools and enhanced customer support and improved communication and coordination with the field. By the end of fiscal year 2015, we expect to have launched all of the categories in the scope of this initiative. We continue to believe this initiative will provide benefits to our customers and savings for us over the next few years.   

 The following tables outline our Business Transformation Project expenditures, that are attributable to our ERP system implementation and shared service support center, for the periods presented:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 23  

The decrease in expenses in fiscal 2014 was due to lower employee costs that were attributed to our Business Transformation Project due to a change in allocation for employees that are not dedicated full time to the project. Only full time employee costs are included in fiscal 2014, while fiscal 2013 included all employee costs. Additional contributors to the decrease in fiscal 2014 include an increased level of capitalization on amounts spent for system improvements and reduced level of spend with consultants in fiscal 2014. The increase in expenses in 2013 was largely attributable to deployment costs and software amortization, which began in the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and totaled $76.8 million. Our cash outlay for our Business Transformation Project, which excludes non-cash expenses such as software amortization, has decreased in fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 primarily due to lower levels of spend on internal labor and consultants.   

 Our goal for our Business Transformation Project is to generate approximately $550 million to $650 million in annual benefits to be achieved by fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2014, we exceeded our benefit goals and believe we will exceed our goals again in fiscal 2015.   

 Results of Operations  

 The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage of sales for the periods indicated:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following table sets forth the change in the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) Other expense (income), net was income of $12.2 million in fiscal 2014, $17.5 million in fiscal 2013 and $6.8 million in fiscal 2012.  

 Sales  

 Sales for fiscal 2014 were 4.7% higher than fiscal 2013. Sales for fiscal 2014 increased as a result of product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, case volume growth, and sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months. Our sales growth in fiscal 2014 was greater with our corporate-managed customers as compared to sales growth with our locally-managed customers. We believe our locally-managed customer growth has been negatively influenced by market conditions including lower   

 24  

consumer spend. The disparity in the growth rate between these customer types moderated in the last half of fiscal 2014, with locally-managed sales growth trending at similar rates as corporate-managed customers. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 2.1% during fiscal 2014, driven mainly by inflation in the meat, seafood and dairy categories. Case volumes including acquisitions within the last 12 months improved 3.4% in fiscal 2014. Case volumes excluding acquisitions within the last 12 months improved 2.2% in fiscal 2014. Our case volumes represent our results from our Broadline and SYGMA segments combined. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 1.4% in fiscal 2014. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars negatively impacted sales by 0.7% in fiscal 2014.   

 Sales for fiscal 2013 were 4.8% higher than fiscal 2012. Sales for fiscal 2013 increased as a result of product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months and case volume growth. Our sales growth in fiscal 2013 was greater with our corporate-managed customers as compared to sales growth with our locally-managed customers. We believe our locally-managed customer sales growth was negatively influenced by lower consumer sentiment. Case volumes excluding acquisitions within the last 12 months improved 1.3% in fiscal 2013. Our case volumes represent our results from our Broadline and SYGMA segments only. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 1.5% for fiscal 2013. Case volumes including acquisitions within the last 12 months improved approximately 2.6% in fiscal 2013. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 2.2% during fiscal 2013. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales when compared to fiscal 2012.   

 Operating Income  

 Cost of sales primarily includes our product costs, net of vendor consideration, and includes in-bound freight. Operating expenses include the costs of facilities, product handling, delivery, selling and general and administrative activities. Fuel surcharges are reflected within sales and gross profit; fuel costs are reflected within operating expenses.   

 Fiscal 2014 vs. Fiscal 2013  

 The following table sets forth the change in the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The decrease in operating income was impacted by an increase in $55.1 million in operating expenses attributable to Certain Items. Operating income and adjusted operating income for fiscal 2014 were lower than fiscal 2013 primarily from a lower rate of growth in our gross profit, increased expenses from higher case volumes, some of which is attributable to our acquired operations, increased depreciation and amortization, increased delivery costs and higher corporate expenses. These were partially offset by lower Business Transformation Project expenses and benefits from Business Transformation Project initiatives. As a percentage of sales, we experienced favorable expense management due in part to benefits from our Business Transformation Project initiatives.   

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to increased sales volumes. The first half of fiscal 2014 contained weaker gross profit growth of 1.2% as compared to the same period in fiscal 2013. Inflation and locally-managed customers case growth was lower in the first half of fiscal 2014. Inflation increased as did local-managed customers case growth in the second half of fiscal 2014. Gross profits grew at a greater rate of 3.4% in the second half of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same time period in fiscal 2013 as result of these factors and in part from our Business Transformation Project initiatives. Gross margin, which is gross profit as a percentage of sales, was 17.59% in fiscal 2014, a decline of 42 basis points from the gross margin of 18.01% in fiscal 2013. This decline in gross margin was partially the result of weak restaurant traffic and increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market. Increased sales to lower margin corporate-managed customers also contributed to the decline in fiscal 2014. These customers purchase higher volumes and therefore margins tend to be lower with this customer group than our locally-managed customers. Our locally-managed customers comprise a significant portion of our overall volumes and an even greater percentage of profitability because of the high level of value added services we typically provide to this customer group. The disparity in the growth rate between these customer types moderated in the last half of fiscal 2014 with locally-managed sales growth   

 25  

trending at similar rates as corporate-managed customers. If sales from our locally-managed customers do not grow at the same rate as sales from these corporate-managed customers, our gross margins may continue to decline. Our inflation rates were relatively stable over the first three quarters of fiscal 2014, however it increased in the fourth quarter, all quarters being compared to the past year. Fourth quarter fiscal 2014 inflation was seen primarily in the meat, seafood and dairy categories which represent more than one-third of our annual sales. While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at current levels, periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can be difficult to pass on to our customers and inflation can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit, operating income and earnings.   

  Operating expenses for fiscal 2014 increased 4.0%, or $255.8 million, over fiscal 2013. Adjusted operating expenses for fiscal 2014 increased 3.2%, or $200.7 million, over fiscal 2013. These increases were primarily due to increased expenses from higher case volumes, some of which is attributable to our acquired operations, increased depreciation and amortization, increased delivery costs and higher corporate expenses. These were partially offset by lower Business Transformation Project expenses and benefits from Business Transformation Project initiatives. We believe favorable expense management, partially from our Business Transformation Project initiatives, helped to keep our operating expense increases from being greater. Sysco’s operating expenses are impacted by certain charges and adjustments, which we refer to as Certain Items, and which resulted in an increase in operating expenses of $55.1 million in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. More information on the rationale of the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.”   

 Operating Expenses Impacting Adjusted Operating Income  

 Our operating expenses increased in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 partially due to expenses from our acquired operations, expenses attributable to volume growth and increased delivery costs. Pay-related expenses represent a significant portion of our operating costs, contributed to the increase in each of these three categories of expenses and contributed to cost increases in our corporate expenses. Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business Transformation Project, US Foods integration planning and retirement-related expenses, increased by $74.4 million in fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013. The increase was primarily due to costs from companies acquired in the last 12 months as well as increased delivery and warehouse compensation, partially attributable to case growth. Pay-related costs have also increased at our corporate office as certain employee costs attributed to our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2013 are no longer attributed to the Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2014 due to a change in allocation methodology. In fiscal 2013, we allocated internal associates based upon estimates of the percentage of time they spent on the project. In fiscal 2014, only associates that that are dedicated full time to the project are included in Business Transformation Project costs. These increases were partially offset by reduced sales compensation, information technology compensation and lower provisions for management incentive plans. Benefits from our Business Transformation Project initiatives have helped in lowering the rate of growth in these expenses particularly in our sales area for fiscal 2014. During fiscal 2013, we streamlined our sales management organization and modified marketing associate compensation plans. Fiscal 2014 was also impacted by a reduction in pay in the information technology area, resulting from the restructuring of this department in fiscal 2013, which reduced headcount in this area.   

 Depreciation and amortization expense, excluding the increase related to our Business Transformation Project described below, increased by $32.8 million in fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013. The increase was primarily related to depreciation on assets that were not placed in service in fiscal 2013 that were in service in fiscal 2014.   

 Our retirement-related expenses consist primarily of costs from our Retirement Plan, SERP and our defined contribution plans. As a part of our Business Transformation Project initiatives, our Retirement Plan was substantially frozen and the SERP was completely frozen in fiscal 2013, and our defined contribution plans were enhanced with greater benefits. The net impact in fiscal 2014 of our retirement-related expenses as compared to fiscal 2013 was a decrease of $86.8 million, consisting of a $133.6 million decrease in our net company-sponsored pension costs and approximately $6.2 million for other costs, partially offset by $53.0 million increased costs from our defined contribution plans. The benefits in the retirement-related expense have largely been realized and the amount of cost decrease is not expected to recur at the same magnitude in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014.   

 In addition to the increases in our corporate office expenses from pay-related expenses noted above, other sources of cost increases in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 were due to increasing the capabilities of various departments within our corporate office. A subset of our business technology costs has been attributable to our Business Transformation Project. Expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, inclusive of pay-related and software amortization expense, were $277.0 million in fiscal 2014 and $330.5 million in fiscal 2013, representing a decrease of $53.5 million. The decrease in fiscal 2014 resulted from a reduction in certain employee costs that were attributed to our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2013 that are no longer attributed to the Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2014 due to a change in allocation methodology. In fiscal 2013, we allocated internal associates based upon estimates of the percentage of time they spent on the project. In fiscal 2014, only associates that that are dedicated full time to the project are included in Business Transformation Project costs. Additional contributors to the decreases include an increased level of capitalization on amounts spent for system improvements to enhance stability and scalability and reduced level of spend with consultants as compared to the comparable period in fiscal 2013. The decrease in fiscal 2014 was partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization expense related to the Business Transformation Project of $10.7 million in fiscal 2014   

 26  

over fiscal 2013. We expect our corporate office expenses to continue to rise in fiscal 2015 as we expand our corporate capabilities including a new revenue management function, organizational changes that drive greater functional support in our broadline operations and additional investments in technology.   

 Cost per case is an important metric management uses to measure our expense performance. This metric is calculated by taking the total operating expense of our North American Broadline companies, divided by the number of cases sold. Adjusted cost per case is calculated similarly, however the operating expense component excludes charges from executive retirement plans restructuring, multiemployer pension plans and severance, which are the Certain Items applicable to these companies, divided by the number of cases sold. Our corporate expenses are not included in the cost per cases metrics because the metric is a measure of efficiency in our operations. We seek to grow our sales and either minimize or reduce our costs on a per case basis. Our cost per case was a decrease of $0.10 per case in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. Our adjusted cost per case calculated on a non-GAAP basis decreased $0.06 in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013, primarily from reduced pay-related expenses from our sales and information technology areas and lower retirement-related expenses, partially offset by increased costs from delivery pay-related expenses. We expect our cost per case in fiscal 2015 to be similar to fiscal 2014. More information on the rationale for the use of these measures and reconciliations can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.”   

 Certain Items Within Operating Expenses  

 Sysco’s results of operating expenses are impacted by Certain Items which are expenses that can be difficult to predict and can be unanticipated. More information on the rationale for the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.” Our significant Certain Items applicable for fiscal 2014 included costs in connection with the proposed merger with US Foods, a change in the estimate of our self insurance reserve and a liability for a settlement. Our significant Certain Items applicable for fiscal 2013 related to withdrawal liabilities from multiemployer pension plans, severance charges and costs from restructuring executive retirement plans. Costs from restructuring executive retirement plans are discussed below under Fiscal 2013 vs. Fiscal 2012.  

 We have incurred additional costs in connection with the proposed merger with US Foods announced in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily from integration planning and due diligence costs. These costs totaled $90.6 million in fiscal 2014. We anticipate incurring additional costs as we continue planning for integration of the two companies as well as other financing costs incurred in connection with the proposed merger.   

 From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. In fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, we recorded provisions of $1.5 million and $41.9 million, respectively, related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals.  

 Sysco maintains a self-insurance program covering portions of workers’ compensation, general and vehicle liability and property insurance costs. The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers. Liabilities associated with these risks are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, medical cost trends, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, based on the historical trends of increased costs primarily attributable to our worker’s compensation claims, we increased our estimates of our self-insurance reserve to a higher point in an estimated range of liability as opposed to our past position at the lower end of the range. This resulted in a charge of $23.8 million in fiscal 2014.   

 During the first quarter of fiscal 2014, Sysco was made aware of certain alleged violations of California law relating to its use of remote storage units in the delivery of products. These are commonly referred to as drop sites. As of June 28, 2014, we have recorded a liability for a settlement of $20 million. In July 2014, Sysco agreed to a $19.4 million settlement, which includes a payment of $15.0 million in penalties, $3.3 million to fund four California Department of Public Health investigator positions for five years, a $1.0 million donation to food banks across California, and $0.1 million in legal fees. The cash portion of the settlement was paid in August 2014 and the donations to the food banks will occur in fiscal 2015. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we eliminated the use of drop sites across Sysco. During fiscal 2014, we introduced mandatory, annual food safety training for all employees across Sysco. We are implementing additional and improved food safety reporting, monitoring and compliance controls across our operations to ensure adherence to our policies.  

 27  

 Fiscal 2013 vs. Fiscal 2012   

 The following table sets forth the change in the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The decrease in operating income in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 was primarily driven by increased expenses, including charges related to our Business Transformation Project and increased pay-related expenses. The decrease in adjusted operating income in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 was primarily driven by increased expenses, including increased pay-related expenses.   

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily due to increased sales. Gross margin was 18.01% in fiscal 2013, a decline of 35 basis points from the gross margin of 18.36% in fiscal 2012. This decline in gross margin was partially the result of increased growth from corporate-managed customers. Gross margin from these types of customers is generally lower than other types of customers. Increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market also contributed to the decline in gross margins.  

  We estimate that Sysco’s product cost inflation was 2.2% during fiscal 2013. Based on our product sales mix for fiscal 2013, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the poultry and meat product categories.   

 Operating expenses for fiscal 2013 increased 7.6%, or $449.5 million, over fiscal 2012, primarily due to increased expenses from our Business Transformation Project, pay-related expenses, charges related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel. Adjusted operating expenses increased 4.5%, or $253.7 million, in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. The increase in adjusted operating expenses was primarily due to increased pay-related expenses, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel.  

 Operating Expenses Impacting Adjusted Operating Income  

 Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business Transformation Project and retirement-related expenses, increased by $48.3 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. The increase was primarily due to added costs from companies acquired in the last 12 months and increased delivery and warehouse compensation. Delivery and warehouse compensation includes activity-based pay which increases when our case volumes increase. Additionally, pay rates were higher particularly in geographies where oil and gas exploration occurs due to labor shortages. These increases were partially offset by reduced sales and information technology pay-related expenses as a result of some of our Business Transformation Project initiatives. During fiscal 2013, we streamlined our sales management organization and modified marketing associate compensation plans. We also restructured our information technology department during the mid-point of fiscal 2013, reducing headcount as a result.   

 Our retirement-related expenses consist primarily of costs from our Retirement Plan, SERP and our defined contribution plan. The net impact in fiscal 2013 of our recurring retirement-related expenses, excluding charges noted below related to the executive retirement plans restructuring, was an increase of $10.3 million as compared to fiscal 2012. This net increase consisted of $46.0 million increased recurring costs from the defined contribution plan, a $33.1 million decrease in our recurring net company-sponsored pension costs and a decrease of approximately $2.6 million for other costs. At the end of fiscal 2012, Sysco decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2012 for all U.S.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. Effective January 1, 2013, these employees were eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. Absent the Retirement Plan freeze, net company-sponsored pension costs would have increased $106.9 million in fiscal 2013.  During fiscal 2013, we approved a plan to restructure our executive nonqualified retirement program including the SERP and our executive deferred compensation plan. A non-qualified defined contribution plan became effective on January 1, 2013 as a replacement plan and benefits were frozen under the SERP at the end of fiscal 2013. We believe this restructuring more closely aligned our executive plans with our non-executive plans. Additional non-recurring costs related to the restructuring are discussed below under “Certain Items Within Operating Expenses.”  

 28  

 Depreciation and amortization expense, excluding the increase related to our Business Transformation Project described below, increased by $36.0 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. The increase was primarily related to assets that were not placed in service in fiscal 2012 that were in service in fiscal 2013, primarily from new facilities, property from new acquisitions and expansions.   

 Fuel costs increased by $18.9 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. The increase was primarily due to increased contracted diesel prices and increased gallon usage. Our costs per gallon increased 2.8% in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. Our activities to mitigate fuel costs include reducing miles driven by our trucks through improved routing techniques, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges. We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements with a goal of mitigating a portion of the volatility in fuel prices.   

 Our fuel commitments will result in either additional fuel costs or avoided fuel costs based on the comparison of the prices on the fixed price contracts and market prices for the respective periods. In fiscal 2013, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $17.8 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes. In fiscal 2012, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $20.2 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes.  

 Our cost per case was an increase of $0.03 per case in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. Our adjusted cost per case calculated on a non-GAAP basis decreased by $0.01 per case as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily from reduced pay-related expenses from our sales and information technology areas, partially offset by increased costs from delivery and warehouse pay-related expenses, increased retirement-related expenses and fuel increases.   

 Certain Items Within Operating Expenses  

 Our results of operating expenses are impacted by Certain Items which are expenses that can be non-recurring or not a part of our everyday operations. See more information on the rationale of the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.”   

 Expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, inclusive of pay-related and software amortization expense, were $330.5 million in fiscal 2013 and $193.1 million in fiscal 2012, representing an increase of $137.4 million. The increase in fiscal 2013 resulted in part from the initiation of software amortization as the system was placed into service in August 2012. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense related to the Business Transformation Project was $59.6 million in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. Our project was not in the deployment stage during any period of fiscal 2012; therefore, a greater portion of the costs were capitalized in fiscal 2012.   

 As a result of executive retirement plan restructuring discussed above, we incurred $21.0 million in charges in fiscal 2013. These charges are in addition to the recurring retirement-related expenses discussed above.  

 From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. In fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, we recorded provisions of $41.9 million and $21.9 million, respectively, related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals.   

 Net Earnings  

 Net earnings decreased 6.1% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013 due primarily to the changes in operating income discussed above. Adjusted net earnings decreased 1.8% during fiscal 2014.   

 Net earnings for fiscal 2013 decreased 11.5% over fiscal 2012. This decrease was primarily due to changes in operating income discussed above. Adjusted net earnings increased 0.1% during fiscal 2013.   

 The effective tax rate of 36.87% for fiscal 2014 was negatively impacted primarily by two items. First, we recorded tax expense of $6.2 million related to a non-deductible penalty that the company incurred. Second, we recorded net tax expense of $5.2 million for tax and interest related to various federal, foreign and state uncertain tax positions. This negative impact was partially offset by the recording of $5.7 million of tax benefit related to disqualifying dispositions of Sysco stock pursuant to share-based compensation arrangements. Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statutory rates less than our domestic tax rate also had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.  

 The effective tax rate of 35.87% for fiscal 2013 was favorably impacted primarily by two items. First, we recorded a tax benefit of $14.0 million related to changes in estimates for the prior year domestic tax provision. Second, we recorded a tax benefit of $8.8 million related to disqualifying dispositions of Sysco stock pursuant to share-based compensation arrangements. The effective tax rate was negatively impacted by the recording of $5.7 million in tax and interest related to various federal, foreign and state uncertain tax   

 29  

positions. Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statutory rates less than our domestic tax rate also had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.  

 The effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 was 37.13%. Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statutory tax rates less than our domestic tax rate had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.  

 Earnings Per Share  

 Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2014 was $1.59, a 5.4% decrease from the fiscal 2013 amount of $1.68 per share. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2014 was $1.58, a 5.4% decrease from the fiscal 2013 amount of $1.67 per share. This decrease was primarily the result of the factors discussed above. Adjusted diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2014 was $1.76, a decrease of 1.1% from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.78.  

 Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2013 was $1.68, a 12.0% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.91 per share. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2013 was $1.67, a 12.1% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.90 per share. This decrease was primarily the result of the factors discussed above. Adjusted diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2013 was $2.14, a decrease of 0.5% from the comparable prior year period amount of $2.15.   

 All earnings per share metrics for fiscal 2013 were partially impacted from greater shares outstanding. Sysco experienced a greater number of stock option exercises in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012, which increased the number of shares outstanding.  

 Non-GAAP Reconciliations and Adjusted Cost per Case   

 Sysco’s results of operations are impacted by costs from executive retirement plans restructuring charges, multiemployer pension (MEPP) charges, severance charges, merger and integration costs associated with our pending US Foods merger, a fiscal 2013 acquisition related charge, change in estimate for self-insurance costs, charges from a liability for a settlement, facility closure charges and amortization of US Foods financing costs. Management believes that adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, interest expense, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove the impact of these items provides an important perspective with respect to underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the performance of the company’s underlying operations and facilitates comparison on a year-over-year basis.   

 Additionally, the comparison of Sysco’s results of operations of fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012 was impacted by costs from the Business Transformation Project (BTP costs), as the level of costs in each year was significantly different. As such, operating expenses, operating income, interest expense, net earnings and diluted earnings per share are adjusted below to facilitate comparison on a year-over-year basis of fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012. In fiscal 2014, BTP costs were not considered Certain Items as the costs of this project became a part of our general corporate expense; as a result, our fiscal 2013 period excludes BTP costs when comparing to fiscal 2014, however it includes BTP costs when comparing to fiscal 2012.  

 The company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. These financial measures should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company’s results of operations for periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. As a result, in the tables below, where applicable, each period presented is adjusted to remove the costs described above. In the tables below, individual components of diluted earnings per share may not add to the total presented due to rounding. Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated using adjusted net earnings divided by diluted shares outstanding.  

 30  

Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating expenses, operating income, interest expense, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to adjusted results for these measures for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 31  

 (1)  The net earnings and diluted earnings per share impacts are shown net of tax, except as noted below. The aggregate tax impact of adjustments for executive retirement plans restructuring charges, MEPP charges, severance charges, merger and integration costs associated with our pending US Foods merger, a fiscal 2013 acquisition related charge, change in estimate for self-insurance costs, charges from a liability for a settlement, facility closure charges and amortization of US Foods financing costs was $67.2 million and $37.8 million for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, respectively. Amounts are calculated by multiplying the operating income impact of each item by the respective year’s effective tax rate, with the exception of the charges from the settlement liability, which has an estimated non-deductible portion, and the fiscal 2013 acquisition-related charge, which has no tax impact.  

 Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to adjusted results for these measures for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) The net earnings and diluted earnings per share impacts are shown net of tax, except as noted below. The aggregate tax impact of adjustments for Business Transformation Project, MEPP charge, severance charges, executive retirement plans restructuring, and facility closure charges was $150.3 million and $85.2 million for fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, respectively. The fiscal 2013 acquisition-related charge had no tax impact.  

 32  

Cost per case is an important metric management uses to measure our expense performance. This metric is calculated by taking the total operating expense of our North American Broadline companies, divided by the number of cases sold. Adjusted cost per case is calculated similarly, however the operating expense component excludes charges from executive retirement plans restructuring, multiemployer pension plans and severance which are the Certain Items applicable to these companies, divided by the number of cases sold. Our corporate expenses are not included in the cost per cases metrics because the metric is a measure of efficiency in our operations. We seek to grow our sales and either minimize or reduce our costs on a per case basis. Our North American Broadline companies represent approximately 80% of our of total sales and 80% of our total operating expenses prior to corporate expenses. Sysco considers adjusted cost per case to be a measure that provides useful information to management and investors about Sysco's expense management. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. In the table that follows, the change in adjusted cost per case is reconciled to cost per case for the periods presented.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (1)    For all periods, the impact of Certain Items excludes charges from executive retirement plans restructuring, multiemployer pension plans and severance. For the fiscal 2014 comparison to fiscal 2013, the majority relates to multiemployer pension plans in the amount of $0.04 per case attributable to charges taken in fiscal 2013 that did not recur at the same magnitude in fiscal 2014. For the fiscal 2013 comparison to fiscal 2012, the majority relates to multiemployer pension plans in the amount of $0.03 per case attributable to charges taken in fiscal 2013 that did not recur at the same magnitude in fiscal 2012, and the remainder relates to severance charges. 

 Segment Results  

 We have aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined in accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise. The accounting policies for the segments are the same as those disclosed by Sysco within the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data within Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Intersegment sales represent specialty produce and imported specialty products distributed by the Broadline and SYGMA operating companies.   

 Management evaluates the performance of each of our operating segments based on its respective operating income results.  Corporate expenses and adjustments generally include all expenses of the corporate office and Sysco’s shared service center. These also include all share-based compensation costs and expenses related to the company’s Business Transformation Project. While a segment’s operating income may be impacted in the short-term by increases or decreases in gross profits, expenses, or a combination thereof, over the long-term each business segment is expected to increase its operating income at a greater rate than sales growth. This is consistent with our long-term goal of leveraging earnings growth at a greater rate than sales growth.   

 The following table sets forth the operating income of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage of each segment’s sales for each period reported and should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 33  

 The following table sets forth the change in the selected financial data of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage increase over the prior year and should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) SYGMA had operating income of $38.0 million in fiscal 2014, $52.0 million in fiscal 2013 and $61.0 million in fiscal 2012.  

 The following table sets forth sales and operating income of each of our reportable segments, the other segment, and intersegment sales, expressed as a percentage of aggregate segment sales, including intersegment sales, and operating income, respectively. For purposes of this statistical table, operating income of our segments excludes corporate expenses and adjustments of $1,020.3 million in fiscal 2014, $894.3 million in fiscal 2013 and $677.6 million in fiscal 2012 that are not charged to our segments. This information should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Broadline Segment  

 The Broadline reportable segment is an aggregation of the company’s U.S., Canadian, Caribbean and European Broadline segments. Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to both traditional and chain restaurant customers, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and other venues where foodservice products are served. These companies also provide custom-cut meat operations. Broadline operations have significantly higher operating margins than the rest of Sysco’s operations. In fiscal 2014, the Broadline operating results represented approximately 81.0% of Sysco’s overall sales and 94.9% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses.  

 There are several factors which contribute to these higher operating results as compared to the SYGMA and Other operating segments. We have invested substantial amounts in assets, operating methods, technology and management expertise in this segment. The breadth of its sales force, geographic reach of its distribution area and its purchasing power allow us to benefit from this segment’s earnings.  

 Sales  

 Sales for fiscal 2014 were 4.4% higher than fiscal 2013. Sales for fiscal 2014 increased as a result of sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months, case volume growth and product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices. Our sales growth in fiscal 2014 was greater with our corporate-managed customers as compared to sales growth with our locally-managed customers. We believe our locally-managed customer growth has been negatively influenced market conditions including lower consumer spend. The disparity in the growth rate between these customer types moderated in the last half of fiscal 2014 with locally-managed sales growth trending at similar rates as corporate-managed customers. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 1.7% in fiscal 2014. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 2.0% during fiscal 2014, driven mainly by inflation in the meat, seafood and dairy categories. The exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars negatively impacted sales by 0.8% in fiscal 2014.   

 Sales were 5.0% greater in fiscal 2013 than fiscal 2012. Sales for fiscal 2013 increased as a result of product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months and improving case volumes. Our sales growth in fiscal 2013 has been greater with our corporate-managed customers as compared to sales growth with our locally-managed customers. We believe our locally-managed customer sales growth has been negatively influenced by lower consumer sentiment. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months contributed 1.6% to the overall sales comparison for fiscal 2013. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 2.3% in fiscal 2013. The   

 34  

changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales when compared to fiscal 2012.   

 Operating Income  

 Fiscal 2014 vs. Fiscal 2013  

 Operating income increased by 3.1% in fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013. Fiscal 2014 included $1.5 million in charges related to withdrawals from multiemployer pension plans, as compared to $41.9 million in charges in fiscal 2013. We also experienced growth in our gross profits, increased expenses from higher case volumes, some of which is attributable to our acquired operations, increased depreciation and amortization and increased delivery costs. These were partially offset by benefits from Business Transformation Project initiatives included lower sales organization costs and retirement-related expenses. As a percentage of sales, we experienced favorable expense management partially from benefits from our Business Transformation Project initiatives.   

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2014 primarily due to increased sales; however, gross profit dollars increased at a lower rate than sales. Gross profits grew at a greater rate in the second half of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same time period in fiscal 2013 as result of increased inflation, higher locally-managed customer case growth and in part from our Business Transformation Project initiatives. This decline in gross margin was partially the result of weak restaurant traffic and increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market. Increased sales to lower margin corporate-managed customers also contributed to the decline in fiscal 2014. These customers purchase higher volumes and therefore margins tend to be lower with this customer group than our locally-managed customers. Our locally-managed customers comprise a significant portion of our overall volumes and an even greater percentage of profitability because of the high level of value added services we typically provide to this customer group. The disparity in the growth rate between these customer types moderated in the last half of fiscal 2014 with locally-managed sales growth trending at similar rates as corporate-managed customers. If sales from our locally-managed customers do not grow at the same rate as sales from these corporate-managed customers, our gross margins may continue to decline. Our inflation rates were relatively stable over the first three quarters of fiscal 2014; however, it increased in the fourth quarter, all quarters being compared to the past year. Fourth quarter fiscal 2014 inflation was seen primarily in the meat, seafood and dairy categories which represent more than one-third of our annual sales. While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at current levels, periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can be difficult to pass on to our customers and inflation can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit, operating income and earnings.  

 Operating expenses for the Broadline segment increased in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. Fiscal 2014 included $1.5 million in charges related to withdrawals from multiemployer pension plans, as compared to $41.9 million in charges in fiscal 2013. The increase in expenses for fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 was driven largely by expenses from acquired operations, expenses attributable to volume growth and increased depreciation and amortization expense. Pay-related expenses increased primarily from added costs from companies acquired in the last 12 months as well as increased delivery compensation, partially attributable to case growth. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily from assets that were not placed in service in fiscal 2013 that were in service in fiscal 2014. These increases were partially offset by reduced sales and information technology pay-related expenses. Retirement-related costs decreased primarily from the plan freezes that occurred in fiscal 2013. Our expense on a cost per case basis decreased as compared to fiscal 2013 primarily from reduced pay-related expenses from our sales and information technology areas and lower retirement-related expenses, partially offset by increased costs from delivery pay-related expenses.   

 Fiscal 2013 vs. Fiscal 2012  

 Operating income decreased by 0.6% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012. This decrease was driven by operating expenses increasing more than gross profit dollars.   

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2013 primarily due to increased sales; however, gross profit dollars increased at a lower rate than sales. This decline in gross margin was partially the result of increased growth from corporate-managed customers. Gross margin from these types of customers is generally lower than from other types of customers. Increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market also contributed to the decline in gross margins. Our Broadline segment experienced product cost inflation in fiscal 2013. Based on our product sales mix during fiscal 2013, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the poultry and meat product categories.   

 Operating expenses for the Broadline segment increased in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. The expense increases in fiscal 2013 were driven largely by charges related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals, pay-related expenses including severance costs, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel. The increase in pay-related expenses was primarily due to increased delivery and warehouse compensation, partially attributable to case growth, and added costs from companies acquired in the last 12 months. Delivery and warehouse compensation includes activity-based pay which will increase when our case volumes increase. Additionally, pay rates have been higher particularly in geographies where oil and gas exploration occurs. These increases were partially offset by reduced sales and information technology pay-related expenses. Our enhanced defined contribution plan became   

 35  

effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to the increase in operating expenses. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily from assets that were not placed in service in fiscal 2012 that were in service in fiscal 2013, primarily from new facilities, property from new acquisitions and expansions. Fuel costs were $16.7 million higher in fiscal 2013 than in fiscal 2012.   

 In fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012, we recorded provisions of $41.9 million and $21.9 million, respectively, related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals.   

 Our fiscal 2013 cost per case, excluding charges related to withdrawals from multiemployer pension plans, decreased as compared to fiscal 2012 primarily from reduced pay-related expenses from our sales and information technology areas, partially offset by increased costs from delivery and warehouse pay-related expenses, increased retirement-related expenses and fuel increases.   

 SYGMA Segment  

 SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations. SYGMA operations have traditionally had lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco’s other segments. This segment of the foodservice industry has generally been characterized by lower overall operating margins as the volume that these customers command allows them to negotiate for reduced margins. These operations service chain restaurants through contractual agreements that are typically structured on a fee per case delivered basis.   

 Sales  

 Sales were 6.9% greater in fiscal 2014 than in fiscal 2013. The increase was primarily due to new customers. Other contributors to the increase were product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices and case volume increases from existing customers. We do not expect sales growth to continue at the same level in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014, primarily due to the expectation of fewer new customers in fiscal 2015 as well as competitive pricing pressures.  

 Sales were 0.8% greater in fiscal 2013 than in fiscal 2012. The increase was primarily due to product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, partially offset by case volume declines. Case volumes were challenged from low levels of growth from existing customers and from lost customers.   

 One chain restaurant customer (The Wendy’s Company) accounted for approximately 23% of the SYGMA segment sales for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2014. SYGMA maintains multiple regional contracts with varied expiration dates with this customer. While the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on SYGMA, we do not believe that the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on Sysco as a whole.   

 Operating Income  

 Operating income decreased by 26.9% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013. Gross profit dollars increased 2.8% while operating expenses increased 6.5% in fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013. Gross profit dollar growth was lower than sales growth primarily due to reduced fuel surcharges. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2014 largely due to increased delivery costs including pay-related expenses. Also contributing to the increase in expense were startup costs related to new customers and expenses incurred for a facility consolidation. Operating income is not expected to decrease at the same rate in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 as startup costs for new customers should be at lower amounts than those experienced in fiscal 2014. We continue to focus on increasing profitability while remaining responsive to our customers’ needs.  

 Operating income decreased by 14.7% in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012. Gross profit dollars decreased 0.9% while operating expenses increased 1.2% in fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. These gross profit results largely reflect the sluggish sales environment. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2013 largely due to increased delivery costs including pay-related expenses. Our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to the increase in pay-related expense.  

 Other Segment  

 “Other” financial information is attributable to our other operating segments, including our specialty produce and lodging industry products segments, a company that distributes specialty imported products, a company that distributes to international customers and our Sysco Ventures platform, our suite of technology solutions that help support the business needs of our customers. These operating segments are discussed on an aggregate basis as they do not represent reportable segments under segment accounting literature.  

 On an aggregate basis, our “Other” segment has had a lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco’s Broadline segment. Sysco has acquired some of the operating companies within this segment in relatively recent years. These operations generally operate in a niche within the foodservice industry except for our lodging industry supply company. Each individual operation is also generally smaller in sales and scope than an average Broadline operation and each of these operating segments is considerably smaller in sales and overall scope than the Broadline segment. In fiscal 2014, in the aggregate, the “Other” segment   

 36  

represented approximately 6.3% of Sysco’s overall sales and 3.6% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses and adjustments.   

 Operating income decreased 5.0%, or $4.9 million, in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. The decrease in operating income was largely due to startup costs from our Sysco Ventures operations, partially offset by increased earnings from our specialty produce and lodging industry products segments. Additionally, retirement-related expenses were greater for these companies for fiscal 2014 as our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013, and some of these operations were not a part of prior benefit plans.   

  Operating income increased 8.3% for fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012. The increase in operating income was primarily driven by earnings from our lodging industry products segment, our specialty import business, that was acquired in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, and our company that distributes to international customers. An additional item partially offsetting the increase in operating income was an increase in retirement-related expense for these companies. Our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to increased expense at these companies.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources   

 Highlights  

 Comparisons of the cash flows from fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013:   

   ·    Cash flows from operations were $1.49 billion this year compared to $1.51 billion last year. 

   ·    Capital expenditures totaled $523.2 million this year compared to $511.9 million last year. 

   ·    Free cash flow was $995.4 million this year compared to $1.0 billion last year (See Non-GAAP reconciliation below under the heading “Free Cash Flow.”) 

   ·    Cash used for acquisition of businesses was $79.3 million this year compared to $397.4 million last year. 

   ·    Net bank borrowings were a net borrowing of $34.5 million this year compared to a net borrowing of $95.5 million last year.  

   ·    Proceeds from exercises of share-based compensation awards was $255.6 million this year compared to $628.7 million last year. 

   ·    Treasury stock purchases were $332.4 million this year compared to $721.6 million last year. 

   ·    Dividends paid were $667.2 million this year compared to $648.3 million last year. 

 Sources and Uses of Cash  

 Sysco’s strategic objectives include continuous investment in our business; these investments are funded by a combination of cash from operations and access to capital from financial markets. Our operations historically have produced significant cash flow. Cash generated from operations is generally allocated to:  

   ·    working capital requirements;  

   ·    investments in facilities, systems, fleet, other equipment and technology;  

   ·    return of capital to shareholders, including cash dividends and share repurchases; 

   ·    acquisitions compatible with our overall growth strategy;  

   ·    contributions to our various retirement plans; and 

   ·    debt repayments. 

 Any remaining cash generated from operations may be invested in high-quality, short-term instruments. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses, and our overall capital structure. Any transactions resulting from these evaluations may materially impact our liquidity, borrowing capacity, leverage ratios and capital availability.   

 In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we announced an agreement to merge with US Foods. As of the time the merger agreement was announced in December 2013, Sysco agreed to pay approximately $3.5 billion for the equity of US Foods, comprised of $3 billion of Sysco common stock and $500 million of cash. As part of the transaction, Sysco will also assume or refinance US Foods’ net debt, which was approximately $4.7 billion as of September 28, 2013, bringing the total enterprise value to $8.2 billion at the time of the merger announcement. As of August 13, 2014, the merger consideration is estimated as follows: approximately $3.7 billion for the equity of US Foods, comprised of $3.2 billion of Sysco common stock valued using the seven day average through August 13, 2014 and $500 million of cash. US Foods' net debt to be assumed or refinanced was approximately $4.8 billion as of June 28, 2014, bringing the total enterprise value to $8.5 billion as of August 13, 2014. The value of Sysco’s common stock and the amount of US Foods’ net debt will fluctuate. As such, the components of the transaction and total enterprise value noted above will not be finalized until the merger is consummated. We have secured a fully committed bridge financing and expect to issue longer-term financing prior to closing. After completion of the transaction, the equity holders of US Foods will own approximately 87 million shares, or roughly   

 37  

13%, of Sysco. This merger is currently pending a regulatory review process by the Federal Trade Commission and we estimate the merger will close by the end of the third quarter or in the fourth quarter of calendar 2014. Under certain conditions, including lack of regulatory approval, Sysco would be obligated to pay $300 million to the owners of US Foods if the merger were cancelled.  

 We continue to generate substantial cash flows from operations and remain in a strong financial position, however our liquidity and capital resources can be influenced by economic trends and conditions that impact our results of operations. Uncertain economic conditions and uneven levels of consumer confidence and the resulting pressure on consumer disposable income have lowered our sales growth and impacted our cash flows from operations. Competitive pressures in a low growth environment have also lowered our gross margins which in turn can cause our cash flows from operations to decrease. We believe our mechanisms to manage working capital, such as credit monitoring, optimizing inventory levels and maximizing payment terms with vendors, and our mechanisms to manage the items impacting our gross profits have been sufficient to limit a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. We believe these mechanisms will continue to prevent a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. As of June 28, 2014, we had $413.0 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately 32% of which was held by our international subsidiaries generated from our earnings of international operations. If these earnings were transferred among countries or repatriated to the U.S., such amounts may be subject to additional tax obligations; however, we do not currently anticipate the need to relocate this cash.  

 We believe the following sources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months, while maintaining sufficient liquidity for normal operating purposes:  

   ·    our cash flows from operations;  

   ·    the availability of additional capital under our existing commercial paper programs, supported by our revolving credit facility, and bank lines of credit;  

   ·    our ability to access capital from financial markets, including issuances of debt securities, either privately or under our shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  

 Due to our strong financial position, we believe that we will continue to be able to effectively access the commercial paper market and long-term capital markets, if necessary. We believe our cash flows from operations will improve over the long-term due to benefits from our Business Transformation Project and initiatives to improve our working capital management and cash flows from the operations of US Foods once acquired.  

 Cash Flows  

 Operating Activities  

 Fiscal 2014 vs. Fiscal 2013  

 We generated $1.49 billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2014, as compared to $1.51 billion in fiscal 2013. This decrease of $18.8 million, or 1.2%, was largely attributable to a negative comparison on pension expense and contributions, reduced net earnings, a negative comparison on multiemployer pension withdrawal provisions and payments and an unfavorable comparison on prepaid expenses. Partially offsetting these unfavorable comparisons was a favorable comparison on working capital, several significant accruals in fiscal 2014 and an increase in non-cash depreciation and amortization.   

 Included in the change in other long-term liabilities was a negative comparison on pension expense and contributions, which contributed $65.0 million to the unfavorable comparison on cash flow from operations for fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. Pension expense was $4.8 million and pension contributions were $24.8 million in fiscal 2014, which resulted in a decrease to other long-term liabilities. Pension expense was $138.3 million and pension contributions were $93.6 million in fiscal 2013, which resulted in an increase to other long-term liabilities.   

 Included in the change in accrued expenses was a negative comparison of $49.4 million on multiemployer withdrawal provisions and payments. Fiscal 2014 included a provision for multiemployer pension withdrawal of $1.5 million and payments of $40.8 million, which resulted in a decrease to accrued expenses. Fiscal 2013 included a provision for multiemployer pension withdrawal of $41.9 million and payments of $31.8 million, which resulted in an increase to accrued expenses. Partially offsetting the unfavorable impact of the multiemployer accrual comparison were several significant accruals unique to fiscal 2014, which contributed $48.5 million to cash flow from operations for fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013.  

 Changes in working capital, specifically accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable, had a favorable comparison of $129.7 million on the comparison of cash flow from operations for fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. There was a favorable comparison on accounts payable, which was partially offset by unfavorable comparisons on accounts receivable and inventory. Accounts receivable increased in both periods as a result of increases in sales. Our sales growth in fiscal 2014 has been greater with our corporate-managed customers and payment terms for these types of customers are traditionally longer than average. This mix of longer-term receivables contributed to the unfavorable comparison on cash flow from fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. Inventory increased in both   

 38  

periods as a result of increases in sales. However, inventory turnover improved in fiscal 2014, as compared to a deterioration of inventory turnover in fiscal 2013, due to working capital improvements in inventory. Fiscal 2014 also included an increase in inventory in transit, which offset the favorable comparison due to working capital improvements, resulting in an overall unfavorable comparison on cash flow from fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. Accounts payable increased in both periods as a result of increases in sales. The year-over-year impact of the change in accounts payable is favorable to cash flow from operations due to working capital improvements in accounts payable as well as an increase in fiscal 2014 in accounts payable related to inventory in transit.   

 Fiscal 2013 vs. Fiscal 2012  

 We generated $1.5 billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013, as compared to $1.4 billion in fiscal 2012. The increase of $107.4 million or 7.6%, was largely attributable to a favorable comparison year-over-year on the settlement payments made to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), an increase in non-cash depreciation and amortization expense and a favorable comparison for multiemployer and company-sponsored pension expense and contributions. These decreases were partially offset by a reduction in net earnings, the redemption of some of our corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) policies in fiscal 2012 and a reduction in taxes. Changes in working capital, including accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable, did not have a significant impact on the comparison of cash flow from operations from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012. These items are more fully described below.   

 In fiscal 2012, we paid $212 million in settlement payments to the IRS. We completed these settlement payments in fiscal 2012, which resulted in a favorable comparison in cash flow from operations related to this item in fiscal 2013. Excluding the IRS settlement payment comparison, the combined impact of changes in deferred taxes and changes in accrued income taxes was a decrease of $171.5 in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. This decrease resulted primarily from decreased tax expense of $107.4 million year over year and an increase in non-IRS tax payments of $59.6 million which were primarily foreign tax payments related to a one-time transaction as well as increased earnings in these jurisdictions.   

 The increase in non-cash depreciation and amortization expense of $95.6 million was primarily related to assets that were not in service in fiscal 2012 that were in service in fiscal 2013. These assets include our software related to our Business Transformation Project, which was placed into service in August 2012, as well as various new facilities and expansions.   

 Multiemployer and company-sponsored pension expense and contributions resulted in a favorable comparison of $69.9 million in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012. Provisions for multiemployer pension withdrawals increased $20.0 million in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012, and payments for withdrawals decreased $1.8 million. Company-sponsored pension contributions decreased $68.9 million year over year, which was partially offset by a decrease in company-sponsored pension expense of $20.8 million.   

 The comparison of cash flow from operations from fiscal 2013 to fiscal 2012 was negatively impacted by an unfavorable change of $56.4 million in other assets. This unfavorable change resulted primarily from an increase in cash in the prior year from the redemption of approximately $75 million of our COLI policies. These COLI policies were maintained to meet a portion of our obligations under the SERP and were replaced by less volatile corporate-owned real estate assets as part of our plan to reduce the market-driven COLI impact on our earnings. There was no similar redemption in fiscal 2013. Other miscellaneous changes in other assets partially offset this decrease year over year.  

 Investing Activities  

 Fiscal 2014 capital expenditures included:  

   ·    fleet replacements; 

   ·    construction of fold-out facilities in Ontario, Canada and Dublin, Ireland; 

   ·    replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Phoenix, Arizona; Sacramento, California; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Harrisonburg, Virginia; and 

   ·    investments in technology. 

 Fiscal 2013 capital expenditures included:  

   ·    fleet replacements;  

   ·    construction of a fold-out facility in southern California;  

   ·    replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Atlanta, Georgia; British Columbia, Canada; Boston, Massachusetts and Columbia, South Carolina; and 

   ·    investments in technology. 

 39  

 Fiscal 2012 capital expenditures included:  

   ·    replacement or significant expansion of facilities in San Diego, California; Boston, Massachusetts; Lincoln, Nebraska; Syracuse, New York and central Texas; 

   ·    construction of fold-out facilities in southern California and Long Island, New York;  

   ·    the continued remodeling of our shared services facility purchased in fiscal 2010; 

   ·    fleet replacements; and 

   ·    investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project. 

 The level of capital expenditures in fiscal 2014 was mostly consistent with fiscal 2013, representing a small increase of $11.3 million. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2013 decreased by $272.6 million from fiscal 2012 primarily due to less investment in technology in fiscal 2013 related to our Business Transformation Project due to the initiation of the project’s deployment phase in August 2012. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 for our Business Transformation Project were $33.4 million, $20.0 million and $146.2 million, respectively.   

  We estimate our capital expenditures, net of proceeds from sales of assets, in fiscal 2015 should be in the range of $500 million to $550 million. Fiscal 2015 expenditures will include facility, fleet and other equipment replacements and expansions; new facility construction, including fold-out facilities; and investments in technology.  

 During fiscal 2014, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $79.3 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2014 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2014, we acquired for cash operations in Meridian, Idaho; Landover, Maryland; St. Louis, Missouri; Cleveland, Ohio and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.   

 During fiscal 2013, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $397.4 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2013 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2013, we acquired for cash foodservice operations in Nassau, Bahamas; San Francisco, California; San Jose, California; Stockton, California; Ontario, Canada; Quebec, Canada; Orlando, Florida; Dublin, Ireland; St. Cloud, Minnesota; Co. Down, Northern Ireland; Greenville, Ohio and Houston, Texas.   

 During fiscal 2012, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $110.6 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2012 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2012, we acquired for cash broadline foodservice operations in Sacramento, California; Quebec, Canada; New Haven, Connecticut; Grand Rapids, Michigan; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Columbia, South Carolina and Spokane, Washington. In addition, Sysco acquired for cash a company that distributes specialty imported products headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.   

 Free Cash Flow  

 Free cash flow represents net cash provided from operating activities less purchases of plant and equipment plus proceeds from sales of plant and equipment. Sysco considers free cash flow to be a non-GAAP liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases and sales of buildings, fleet, equipment and technology, which may potentially be used to pay for, among other things, strategic uses of cash including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions. We do not mean to imply that free cash flow is necessarily available for discretionary expenditures, however, as it may be necessary that we use it to make mandatory debt service or other payments. As a result of decreased cash provided by operating activities and increased capital spending, partially offset by increased proceeds from sales of plant and equipment, free cash flow for fiscal 2014 decreased 2.0%, or $19.9 million, to $995.4 million as compared to fiscal 2013. Increased cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by increased capital spending, resulted in free cash flow for fiscal 2013 increasing 61.7%, or $387.4 million, to $1.0 billion as compared to fiscal 2012.   

 40  

 Free cash flow should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company’s liquidity for the periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. In the tables that follow, free cash flow for each period presented is reconciled to net cash provided by operating activities.   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Financing Activities  

 Equity Transactions  

 Proceeds from exercises of share-based compensation awards were $255.6 million in fiscal 2014, $628.7 million in fiscal 2013 and $99.4 million in fiscal 2012. The level of proceeds in each year is directly related to the number of options exercised in each year. The level of option exercises, and thus proceeds, will vary from period to period and is largely dependent on movements in our stock price.  

 We traditionally have engaged in Board-approved share repurchase programs. The number of shares acquired and their cost during the past three fiscal years were 10,059,000 shares for $332.4 million in fiscal 2014, 21,672,403 shares for $721.6 million in fiscal 2013 and 10,000,000 shares for $272.3 million in fiscal 2012. No additional shares were repurchased through August 13, 2014, resulting in a remaining authorization by our Board of Directors to repurchase up to 11,655,197 shares, based on the trades made through that date. Our share repurchase strategy is to purchase enough shares to keep our average shares outstanding relatively constant over time, excluding the impact of the 87 million shares to be issued upon closing of the potential merger with US Foods. The number of shares we repurchase in fiscal 2015 will be dependent on many factors, including the level of future stock option exercises as well as competing uses for available cash.  

 We have made dividend payments to our shareholders in each fiscal year since our company’s inception over 40 years ago. We target a dividend payout of 40% to 50% of net earnings. We paid in excess of that range in fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 primarily due to increased expenses from our Certain Items. We believe, as we realize benefits from our Business Transformation Project, our dividend payout will return to this targeted range. Dividends paid were $667.2 million, or $1.14 per share, in fiscal 2014, $648.3 million, or $1.10 per share, in fiscal 2013 and $622.9 million, or $1.06 per share, in fiscal 2012. In May 2014, we declared our regular quarterly dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2015 of $0.29 per share, which was paid in July 2014.   

 In November 2000, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement covering 30,000,000 shares of common stock to be offered from time to time in connection with acquisitions. As of August 13, 2014, 29,477,835 shares remained available for issuance under this registration statement.  

 Debt Activity and Borrowing Availability  

 Short-term Borrowings   

 We have uncommitted bank lines of credit, which provided for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $95.0 million, of which none was outstanding as of June 28, 2014 or August 13, 2014.  

 The company’s Irish subsidiary, Pallas Foods, has a multicurrency revolving credit facility, which provides for capital needs for the company’s European subsidiaries. In September 2013, this facility was extended and increased to €100.0 million (Euro). This facility provides for unsecured borrowings and expires September 24, 2014, but is subject to extension. Outstanding borrowings under this facility were €52.0 million (Euro) as of June 28, 2014 and August 13, 2014.  

 41  

On June 30, 2011, a Canadian subsidiary of Sysco entered into a short-term demand loan facility for the purpose of facilitating a distribution from the Canadian subsidiary to Sysco, and Sysco concurrently entered into an agreement with the bank to guarantee the loan. The amount borrowed was $182.0 million and was repaid in full on July 4, 2011.   

 Commercial Paper and Revolving Credit Facility  

 We have a Board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billion.   

 Sysco and one of its subsidiaries, Sysco International, ULC, have a revolving credit facility supporting the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs. The facility provides for borrowings in both U.S. and Canadian dollars. Borrowings by Sysco International, ULC under the agreement are guaranteed by Sysco, and borrowings by Sysco and Sysco International, ULC under the credit agreement are guaranteed by the wholly-owned subsidiaries of Sysco that are guarantors of the company’s senior notes and debentures. In January 2014, Sysco and Sysco International, ULC extended and increased the size of the revolving credit facility described above that supports the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs. The facility was increased to $1.5 billion with an expiration date of December 29, 2018, but is subject to further extension. The other terms and conditions of the extended facility are substantially the same.   

 As of June 28, 2014, commercial paper issuances outstanding were $130.0 million. As of August 13, 2014, commercial paper issuances outstanding were $387.6 million. During fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, aggregate outstanding commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings ranged from approximately zero to $770.5 million, zero to $330.0 million, and zero to $563.1 million, respectively. During each of fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, our aggregate commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings had a weighted average interest rate of 0.16%.  

 Bridge Facility  

 In December 2013, we secured a commitment for an unsecured bridge facility in the amount of $3.3865 billion in connection with our proposed merger with US Foods (discussed further under Strategy). In January 2014, this bridge facility commitment was replaced with a $3.3865 billion bridge term loan agreement with multiple lenders. We may borrow up to $3.3865 billion in term loans on the closing date of the US Foods acquisition to fund the acquisition, refinance certain indebtedness of US Foods and pay related fees and expenses. The facility expires on March 8, 2015, but is subject to extension if regulatory approvals have not yet been obtained. Borrowings under the bridge term loan agreement are guaranteed by the same subsidiaries of Sysco that guarantee the company’s revolving credit facility, and in certain circumstances, may also be guaranteed by US Foods after closing of the merger. As an alternative to using our bridge facility, we currently intend to issue longer-term financing prior to the closing of the transaction.  

 Fixed Rate Debt  

 Included in current maturities of long-term debt as of June 28, 2014 are the 0.55% senior notes totaling $300.0 million, which mature in June 2015. It is our intention to fund the repayment of these notes at maturity through cash on hand, cash flow from operations, issuances of commercial paper, senior notes or a combination thereof.  

 In February 2012, we filed with the SEC an automatically effective well-known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and guarantees of debt securities that may be issued from time to time.  

 In June 2012, we repaid the 6.1% senior notes totaling $200.0 million at maturity utilizing a combination of cash flow from operations and commercial paper issuances.   

 In May 2012, we entered into an agreement with a notional amount of $200.0 million to lock in a component of the interest rate on our then forecasted debt offering. We designated this derivative as a cash flow hedge of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on a portion of the then forecasted June 2012 debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. In June 2012, in conjunction with the issuance of the $450.0 million senior notes maturing in fiscal 2022, we settled the treasury lock, locking in the effective yields on the related debt. Upon settlement, we received cash of $0.7 million, which represented the fair value of the swap agreement at the time of settlement. This amount is being amortized as an offset to interest expense over the 10-year term of the debt, and the unamortized balance is reflected as a gain, net of tax, Accumulated other comprehensive loss.  

 In June 2012, we issued 0.55% senior notes totaling $300.0 million due June 12, 2015 (the 2015 notes) and 2.6% senior notes totaling $450.0 million due June 12, 2022 (the 2022 notes) under its February 2012 shelf registration. The 2015 and 2022 notes, which were priced at 99.319% and 98.722% of par, respectively, are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and include a redemption provision which allows Sysco to retire the notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the note holders are not penalized by early redemption. Proceeds from the notes will be utilized over a period of time for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions, refinancing of debt, working capital, share repurchases and capital expenditures.  

 42  

 In February 2013, we repaid the 4.2% senior notes totaling $250.0 million at maturity utilizing a combination of cash flow from operations and cash on hand.  

 In August 2013, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $500 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2018 to floating rate debt. This transaction was entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and was designated as a fair value hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates.   

 In January 2014, we entered into two forward starting swap agreements with notional amounts totaling $2.0 billion. We designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges of the variability in the expected cash outflows of interest payments on 10-year and 30-year debt forecasted to be issued in fiscal 2015 due to changes in the benchmark interest rates.  

 In March 2014, Sysco repaid the 4.6% senior notes totaling $200.0 million at maturity utilizing a combination of cash flow from operations and commercial paper issuances.  

 Total Debt  

 Total debt as of June 28, 2014 was $2.8 billion of which approximately 74% was at fixed rates with a weighted average of 4.6% and an average life of 13 years, and the remainder was at floating rates with a weighted average of 2.7% and an average life of three years. Certain loan agreements contain typical debt covenants to protect note holders, including provisions to maintain the company’s long-term debt to total capital ratio below a specified level. We are currently in compliance with all debt covenants.  

 Other  

 As part of normal business activities, we issue letters of credit through major banking institutions as required by certain vendor and insurance agreements. In addition, in connection with our audits in certain tax jurisdictions, we have posted letters of credit in order to proceed to the appeals process. As of June 28, 2014, letters of credit outstanding were $45.7 million.  

 Other Considerations  

 Multiemployer Plans  

 As discussed in Note 15, “Multiemployer Employee Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees.   

 Under certain circumstances, including our voluntary withdrawal or a mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from certain underfunded plans, we would be required to make payments to the plans for our proportionate share of the multiemployer plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. We believe that one of the above-mentioned events is reasonably possible with certain plans in which we participate and estimate our share of withdrawal liability for these plans could have been as much as $90.0 million as of June 28, 2014 and August 13, 2014, based on the latest available information available as of each date. This estimate excludes plans for which we have recorded withdrawal liabilities or where the likelihood of the above-mentioned events is deemed remote. Due to the lack of current information, we believe our current share of the withdrawal liability could materially differ from this estimate.   

 As of June 28, 2014 and June 29, 2013, Sysco had approximately $1.4 million and $40.7 million, respectively, in liabilities recorded related to certain multiemployer defined benefit plans for which Sysco’s voluntary withdrawal had already occurred.   

 Required contributions to multiemployer plans could increase in the future as these plans strive to improve their funding levels. In addition, pension-related legislation in the U.S. requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. We believe that any unforeseen requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability and excise taxes would be funded through cash flow from operations, borrowing capacity or a combination of these items.   

 Potential Contingencies Impacting Liquidity  

 Certain tax jurisdictions require partial to full payment on audit assessments or the posting of letters of credit in order to proceed to the appeals process. Sysco has posted approximately $32.5 million in letters of credit, representing a partial payment of the audit assessments, in order to appeal the Canadian Revenue Agency assessments of transfer pricing adjustments relating to our cross border procurement activities through our former purchasing cooperative on our 2004 and 2005 fiscal years. We are protesting these adjustments through appeals and competent authority. If assessed on later years currently under examination using these same positions, we could have to pay cash or post additional letters of credit of as much as $129.0 million, in order to appeal these further assessments.  

 43  

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.  

 Contractual Obligations   

 The following table sets forth, as of June 28, 2014, certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make contractual future payments:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)The estimate of the timing of future payments under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan involves the use of certain assumptions, including retirement ages and payout periods.   

 (2)Includes estimated contributions to the unfunded SERP and other postretirement benefit plans made in amounts needed to fund benefit payments for vested participants in these plans through fiscal 2024, based on actuarial assumptions.  

 (3)Unrecognized tax benefits relate to uncertain tax positions recorded under accounting standards related to uncertain tax positions. As of June 28, 2014, we had a liability of $49.2 million for unrecognized tax benefits for all tax jurisdictions and $36.7 million for related interest that could result in cash payment. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of non-current payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time. Accordingly, the related non-current balances have not been reflected in the "Payments Due by Period" section of the table.   

 (4)Includes payments on floating rate debt based on rates as of June 28, 2014, assuming amount remains unchanged until maturity, and payments on fixed rate debt based on maturity dates. The impact of our outstanding fixed-to-floating interest rate swap on the fixed rate debt interest payments is included as well based on the floating rates in effect as of June 28, 2014.  

 (5)For purposes of this table, purchase obligations include agreements for purchases of product in the normal course of business, for which all significant terms have been confirmed, including minimum quantities resulting from our category management initiative. As we progress with this initiative, our purchase obligations are increasing.  Such amounts included in the table above are based on estimates.  Purchase obligations also includes amounts committed with various third party service providers to provide information technology services for period up to fiscal 2019 (See discussion under Note 20, “Commitments and Contingencies”, to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8) and fixed fuel purchase commitments.  Purchase obligations exclude full requirements electricity contracts where no stated minimum purchase volume is required.  

 (6)In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, the company announced an agreement to merge with US Foods. Sysco has agreed to pay approximately $3.7 billion for the equity of US Foods, comprising $3.2 billion of Sysco common stock valued using the seven day average through August 13, 2014 and $500 million of cash. As part of the transaction, Sysco will also assume or refinance US Foods' net debt, which is currently approximately $4.8 billion as of June 28, 2014, bringing the total enterprise value to $8.5 billion. The table above includes the cash payment and the assumption or refinancing of US Foods’ net debt. The value of Sysco’s common stock and the amount of US Foods’ net debt will fluctuate. As such, the components of the transaction and total   

 44  

enterprise value noted above will not be finalized until the merger is consummated. Under certain conditions, including lack of regulatory approval, Sysco would be obligated to pay $300 million to the owners of US Foods if the merger were cancelled.  

 The Retirement Plan has no estimated contributions through fiscal 2024 to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements based on actuarial assumptions. These assumptions include the extension of funding relief included in the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014.   

 Certain acquisitions involve contingent consideration, typically payable only in the event that certain operating results are attained or certain outstanding contingencies are resolved.  Aggregate contingent consideration amounts outstanding as of June 28, 2014 were $70.6 million.  This amount is not included in the table above.  

 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses in the accompanying financial statements. Significant accounting policies employed by Sysco are presented in the notes to the financial statements.  

 Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations.  These policies require our most subjective or complex judgments, often employing the use of estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.  We have reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors the development and selection of the critical accounting policies and estimates and this related disclosure.  Our most critical accounting policies and estimates pertain to the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, self-insurance programs, company-sponsored pension plans, income taxes, vendor consideration, goodwill and intangible assets and share-based compensation.  

 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

 We evaluate the collectability of accounts receivable and determine the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts based on a combination of factors.  We utilize specific criteria to determine uncollectible receivables to be written off, including whether a customer has filed for or has been placed in bankruptcy, has had accounts referred to outside parties for collection or has had accounts past due over specified periods.  Allowances are recorded for all other receivables based on analysis of historical trends of write-offs and recoveries.  In addition, in circumstances where we are aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligation, a specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to reduce the receivable to the net amount reasonably expected to be collected.  Our judgment is required as to the impact of certain of these items and other factors as to ultimate realization of our accounts receivable. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, additional allowances may be required.  

 Self-Insurance Program  

 We maintain a self-insurance program covering portions of workers’ compensation, general liability and vehicle liability costs.  The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers.  We also maintain a fully self-insured group medical program. Liabilities associated with these risks are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, medical cost trends, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions.  Projections of future loss expenses are inherently uncertain because of the random nature of insurance claims occurrences and could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends.  In an attempt to mitigate the risks of workers’ compensation, vehicle and general liability claims, safety procedures and awareness programs have been implemented.  

 Company-Sponsored Pension Plans  

 Amounts related to defined benefit plans recognized in the financial statements are determined on an actuarial basis.  Two of the more critical assumptions in the actuarial calculations are the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits and the expected rate of return on plan assets. Our Retirement Plan was frozen in fiscal 2013 and is only open to a small number of employees. Our SERP was frozen in fiscal 2013. Due to these plan freezes, our assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation is no longer a critical assumption.   

 For guidance in determining the discount rates, we calculate the implied rate of return on a hypothetical portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximates the estimated payouts of the pension plan. The discount rate assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2014 net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the June 29, 2013 measurement date, increased 51 basis points to 5.32%. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2014 net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the June 29, 2013 measurement date, increased 98 basis points to 4.94%, as compared to the discount rate upon the remeasurement of the plan during fiscal 2013. The combined effect of these discount rate changes decreased our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2014 by an estimated $5 million. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2015 net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the June 28, 2014 measurement date, decreased 58 basis points to 4.74%. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2015 net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the June 28, 2014 measurement date, decreased   

 45  

35 basis points to 4.59%. The combined effect of these discount rate changes will increase our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2015 by an estimated $7 million. A 100 basis point increase (or decrease) in the discount rates for fiscal 2015 would decrease (or increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension cost by approximately $11 million. Now that Sysco’s pension plans are frozen, net company-sponsored pension cost is not as sensitive to discount rate changes as compared to when these plans were active.   

 The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan was 7.75% for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013. The expectations of future returns are derived from a mathematical asset model that incorporates assumptions as to the various asset class returns, reflecting a combination of historical performance analysis and the forward-looking views of the financial markets regarding the yield on bonds, historical returns of the major stock markets and returns on alternative investments.  Although not determinative of future returns, the effective annual rate of return on plan assets, developed using geometric/compound averaging, was approximately 7.6%, 6.8%, 13.4%, and 15.0%, over the 20-year, 10-year, 5-year and 1-year periods ended December 31, 2013, respectively.  In addition, in eight of the last 15 years, the actual return on plan assets has exceeded 10%.  The rate of return assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.  

 The expected return on plan assets impacts the recorded amount of net pension costs.  The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan is 7.75% for fiscal 2015.  A 100 basis point increase (decrease) in the assumed rate of return for fiscal 2015 would decrease (increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension costs for fiscal 2015 by approximately $29 million.  

 Pension accounting standards require the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans in the statement of financial position, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of June 28, 2014 was a charge, net of tax, of $686.0 million. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of June 29, 2013 was a charge, net of tax, of $575.2 million.  

 We made cash contributions to our company-sponsored pension plans of $24.8 million and $93.6 million in fiscal years 2014 and 2013, respectively. There was no contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2014, as there was no minimum required contribution for the calendar 2013 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements. The $70.0 million contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2013 was voluntary, as there was no minimum required contribution for the calendar 2012 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements. There are no required contributions to the Retirement Plan to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements in fiscal 2015. The estimated fiscal 2015 contributions to fund benefit payments for the SERP plan are approximately $26 million.  

 Income Taxes  

 The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws.  Our provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state, as well as foreign jurisdictions.  Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items, accruals or adjustments of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits or valuation allowances, and our change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate.  

 Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. We believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable; however, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or pay amounts in excess of recorded liabilities, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected.  An unfavorable tax settlement generally would require use of our cash and may result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution.  A favorable tax settlement may be recognized as a reduction in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution.  

 Vendor Consideration   

 We recognize consideration received from vendors when the services performed in connection with the monies received are completed and when the related product has been sold by Sysco.  There are several types of cash consideration received from vendors.  In many instances, the vendor consideration is in the form of a specified amount per case or per pound.  In these instances, we will recognize the vendor consideration as a reduction of cost of sales when the product is sold.  In some instances, vendor consideration is received upon receipt of inventory in our distribution facilities. We estimate the amount needed to reduce our inventory based on inventory turns until the product is sold. Our inventory turnover is usually less than one month; therefore, amounts deferred against inventory do not require long-term estimation. In the situations where the vendor consideration is not related directly to specific product purchases, we will recognize these as a reduction of cost of sales when the earnings process is complete, the related service is performed and the amounts realized. Historically, adjustments to our estimates related to vendor consideration have not been significant.    

 46  

 Goodwill and Intangible Assets  

 Goodwill and intangible assets represent the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired. Certain assumptions and estimates are employed in determining the fair value of assets acquired, including goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as determining the allocation of goodwill to the appropriate reporting unit.   

 In addition, annually in our fourth quarter or more frequently as needed, we assess the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles by determining whether the fair values of the applicable reporting units exceed the carrying values of these assets. The reporting units used in assessing goodwill impairment are our 12 operating segments as described in Note 21, “Business Segment Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The components within each of our 12 operating segments have similar economic characteristics and therefore are aggregated into 12 reporting units.   

 We arrive at our estimates of fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow and earnings multiple models.  The results from each of these models are then weighted and combined into a single estimate of fair value for each of our 12 operating segments.  We primarily use a 60% weighting for our discounted cash flow valuation and 40% for the earnings multiple models giving greater emphasis to our discounted cash flow model because the forecasted operating results that serve as a basis for the analysis incorporate management’s outlook and anticipated changes for the businesses consistent with a market participant.  The primary assumptions used in these various models include estimated earnings multiples of comparable acquisitions in the industry including control premiums, earnings multiples on acquisitions completed by Sysco in the past, future cash flow estimates of the reporting units, which are dependent on internal forecasts and projected growth rates, and weighted average cost of capital, along with working capital and capital expenditure requirements. When possible, we use observable market inputs in our models to arrive at the fair values of our reporting units. We update our projections used in our discounted cash flow model based on historical performance and changing business conditions for each of our reporting units.   

 Our estimates of fair value contain uncertainties requiring management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. Actual results could differ from these assumptions and projections, resulting in the company revising its assumptions and, if required, recognizing an impairment loss. There were no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles recorded as a result of assessment in fiscal 2014, 2013 or 2012. Our past estimates of fair value for fiscal 2013 and 2012 have not been materially different when revised to include subsequent years’ actual results. Sysco has not made any material changes in its impairment assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe the estimates used in the analysis are reasonably likely to change materially in the future but we will continue to assess the estimates in the future based on the expectations of the reporting units. In the fiscal 2014 assessment, our estimates of fair value did not require additional analysis. However, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for our Caribbean Broadline, European Broadline and Sysco Ventures reporting units if our estimates of fair value were decreased by 11% to 23%. As of June 28, 2014, these reporting units had goodwill aggregating $275.5 million. For the remainder of our reporting units, which as of June 28, 2014 had goodwill aggregating $1.7 billion, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for a reporting unit if the estimated fair value for any of these reporting units had declined by greater than 25%.   

 Certain reporting units (Caribbean Broadline, European Broadline, specialty produce, custom-cut meat, lodging industry products, imported specialty products, international distribution operations and our Sysco Ventures platform) have a greater proportion of goodwill recorded to estimated fair value as compared to the U.S. Broadline, Canada Broadline or SYGMA reporting units. This is primarily due to these businesses having been more recently acquired, and as a result there has been less history of organic growth than in the U.S. Broadline, Canadian Broadline and SYGMA reporting units. In addition, these businesses also have lower levels of cash flow than the U.S. Broadline reporting unit. As such, these reporting units have a greater risk of future impairment if their operations were to suffer a significant downturn.   

 Share-Based Compensation  

 Sysco provides compensation benefits to employees and non-employee directors under several share-based payment arrangements including various employee stock option plans, a non-employee director plan and the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan.   

 As of June 28, 2014, there was $64.9 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.39 years.  

 The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model.  Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of Sysco’s stock, implied volatilities from traded options on Sysco’s stock and other factors.  We utilize historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model; separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes.  Expected dividend yield is estimated based on the historical pattern of dividends and the average stock price for the year preceding the option grant.  The risk-free rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.  

 47  

The fair value of each restricted stock unit award granted with a dividend equivalent is based on the company’s stock price as of the date of grant. For restricted stock units granted without dividend equivalents, the fair value is reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period.  

 The fair value of the stock issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan is calculated as the difference between the stock price and the employee purchase price.   

 The fair value of restricted stock granted to employees or non-employee directors is based on the stock price on grant date. The application of a discount to the fair value of a restricted stock grant is dependent upon whether or not each individual grant contains a post-vesting restriction.   

 The compensation cost related to these share-based awards is recognized over the requisite service period.  The requisite service period is generally the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The compensation cost related to stock issuances resulting from employee purchases of stock under the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan is recognized during the quarter in which the employee payroll withholdings are made.  

 Our share-based awards are generally subject to graded vesting over a service period.  We will recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.   

 In addition, certain of our share-based awards provide that the awards continue to vest as if the award holder continued to be an employee or director if the award holder meets certain age and years of service thresholds upon retirement.  In these cases, we will recognize compensation cost for such awards over the period from the grant date to the date the employee or director first becomes eligible to retire with the options continuing to vest after retirement.   

 Our option grants include options that qualify as incentive stock options for income tax purposes.  In the period the compensation cost related to incentive stock options is recorded, a corresponding tax benefit is not recorded as it is assumed that we will not receive a tax deduction related to such incentive stock options.  We may be eligible for tax deductions in subsequent periods to the extent that there is a disqualifying disposition of the incentive stock option.  In such cases, we would record a tax benefit related to the tax deduction in an amount not to exceed the corresponding cumulative compensation cost recorded in the financial statements on the particular options multiplied by the statutory tax rate.  

 Forward-Looking Statements  

 Certain statements made herein that look forward in time or express management’s expectations or beliefs with respect to the occurrence of future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management’s current expectations and estimates. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors,” which are incorporated herein by reference. Due to the inherent uncertainties concerning the impact of the pending US Foods acquisition, it is impracticable for us to provide projections that fully anticipate all possible impacts of the acquisition. For that reason, forward-looking disclosures in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Form 10-K describe anticipated future trends and results of only our current operations, excluding any potential impact from the US Foods acquisition unless specifically noted. Completion of the US Foods acquisition is likely to materially impact these projections with respect to Sysco as a whole. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.  

 In addition to the Risk Factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, the success of Sysco’s strategic initiatives could be affected by conditions in the economy and the industry and internal factors, such as the ability to control expenses, including fuel costs. Our expectations regarding cost per case may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including actions by our competitors and/or customers. Company-sponsored pension plan liabilities are impacted by a number of factors including the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits, the assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation levels and the expected rate of return on plan assets. The amount of shares repurchased in a given period is subject to a number of factors, including available cash and our general working capital needs at the time. Meeting our dividend target objectives depends on our level of earnings, available cash and the success of our Business Transformation Project. Our plans with respect to growth in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business are subject to our other strategic initiatives, the allocation of resources, and plans and economic conditions generally. Legal proceedings and the adequacy of insurance are impacted by events, circumstances and individuals beyond the control of Sysco. The need for additional borrowing or other capital is impacted by factors that include the impact of the US Foods acquisition, capital expenditures or acquisitions in excess of those currently anticipated, levels of stock repurchases, or other unexpected cash requirements. Plans regarding the repayment of debt are subject to change at any time based on management’s assessment of the overall needs of the company. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on   

 48  

changes in business plans and other factors, including risks related to the implementation of our Business Transformation Project and our regional distribution centers, the timing and successful completions of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending. Our ability to finance capital expenditures as anticipated may be influenced by our results of operations, the completion of the US Foods acquisition, our borrowing capacity, share repurchases, dividend levels and other factors. The anticipated impact of compliance with laws and regulations also involves the risk that estimates may turn out to be materially incorrect, and laws and regulations, as well as methods of enforcement, are subject to change.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk