ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with “Selected Financial Data” and TD Group’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The following discussion may contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under the heading entitled “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this report. These risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from any future performance suggested below.  

Overview  

We believe we are a leading global designer, producer and supplier of highly engineered aircraft components for use on nearly all commercial and military aircraft in service today. Our business is well diversified due to the broad range of products we offer to our customers. Some of our more significant product offerings, substantially all of which are ultimately provided to end-users in the aerospace industry, include mechanical/electro-mechanical actuators and controls, ignition systems and engine technology, specialized pumps and valves, power conditioning devices, specialized AC/DC electric motors and generators, aircraft audio systems, specialized cockpit displays, engineered latching and locking devices, specialized lavatory components, engineered connectors and elastomers, rods and locking devices, NiCad batteries/chargers, and lighting and control technology. Each of these product offerings is composed of many individual products that are typically customized to meet the needs of a particular aircraft platform or customer.  

Long-term Sustainable Growth  

For fiscal year 2010, we generated net sales of $827.7 million, gross profit of $473.1 million or 57.2% of sales, and net income of $163.4 million. We believe we have achieved steady, long-term growth in sales and improvements in operating performance since our formation in 1993 due to our competitive strengths and through execution of our value-driven operating strategy. More specifically, focusing our businesses on our value-driven operating strategy of obtaining profitable new business, carefully controlling the cost structure and pricing our highly engineered value-added products to fairly reflect the value we provide and the resources required to do so has historically resulted in improvements in gross profit and income from operations over the long term.  

Our selective acquisition strategy has also contributed to the growth of our business. The integration of certain acquisitions into our existing businesses combined with implementing our proven operating strategy has historically resulted in improvements of the financial performance of the acquired business.  

Our key competitive strengths and the elements of our business strategy are set forth in more detail below.  

25  

Table of Contents 

We believe our key competitive strengths include:  

Large and Growing Installed Product Base with Aftermarket Revenue Stream. We provide components to a large and growing installed base of aircraft to which we supply aftermarket products. We estimate that our products are installed on more than 63,000 commercial transport, regional transport, military and general aviation fixed wing turbine aircraft and rotary wing aircraft.  

Diversified Revenue Base. We believe that our diversified revenue base reduces our dependence on any particular product, platform or market channel and has been a significant factor in maintaining our financial performance. Our products are installed on almost all of the major commercial aircraft platforms now in production.  

Significant Barriers to Entry. We believe that the niche nature of our markets, the industry’s stringent regulatory and customer certification requirements, the relatively low unit cost as compared to many other highly engineered aerospace products and the investments necessary to develop and certify products create significant practical barriers to entry for potential competitors.  

Our business strategy is made up of two key elements: (1) a value-driven operating strategy focused around our three core value drivers and (2) a selective acquisition strategy.  

Value-Driven Operating Strategy. Our three core value drivers are:  

   •    Obtaining Profitable New Business. We attempt to obtain profitable new business by using our technical expertise, application skill and our detailed knowledge of our customer base and the individual niche markets in which we operate. We have regularly been successful in identifying and developing both aftermarket and OEM products to drive our growth.  

   •    Improving Our Cost Structure. We are committed to maintaining and continuously improving our lean cost structure through detailed attention to the cost of each of the products that we offer and our organizational structure, with a focus on reducing the cost of each.  

   •    Providing Highly Engineered Value-Added Products to Customers. We focus on the engineering, manufacturing and marketing of a broad range of highly engineered niche products that we believe provide value to our customers. We believe we have been consistently successful in communicating to our customers the value of our products. This has generally enabled us to price our products to fairly reflect the value we provide and the resources required to do so.  

Selective Acquisition Strategy. We selectively pursue the acquisition of proprietary aerospace component businesses when we see an opportunity to create value through the application of our three core value-driven operating strategies. The aerospace industry, in particular, remains highly fragmented, with many of the companies in the industry being small private businesses or small non-core operations of larger businesses. We have significant experience among our management team in executing acquisitions and integrating acquired businesses into our company and culture. As of the date of this report, we have successfully acquired and integrated 28 businesses and/or product lines since our formation in 1993. Many of these acquisitions have been integrated into an existing TransDigm production facility, which enables a higher production capacity utilization, which in turn improves gross profit levels due to the ability to spread the fixed manufacturing overhead costs over higher production volume.  

Public Offerings  

On March 20, 2006 and May 25, 2007, certain stockholders of TD Group (including certain members of our management) sold an aggregate of 11.5 million and 12.6 million shares of TD Group’s common stock, respectively, in public offerings at prices of $21.00 and $35.25 per share. TD Group did not offer any shares of its common stock for sale in the public offerings and TD Group did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of such shares by the selling stockholders. As a result of the initial public offering, TD Group’s common stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol “TDG.”  

26  

Table of Contents 

Certain Acquisitions  

Semco Instruments Acquisition  

On September 3, 2010, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Semco Instruments, Inc. (“Semco”) for approximately $71 million in cash, subject to adjustment based on the level of working capital as of the closing date of the acquisition. Semco is a designer and manufacturer of proprietary, highly engineered components for all major turbo-prop, turbo-fan, and turbo-shaft engines, which are primarily used on helicopters, business jets and selected regional airplanes. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The Company is in the process of obtaining information to value certain tangible and intangible assets of Semco, and therefore the consolidated financial statements at September 30, 2010 reflect a preliminary purchase price allocation for the business.  

Dukes Aerospace Acquisition  

On December 2, 2009, TransDigm (through Dukes Aerospace, Inc., a newly formed, wholly owned subsidiary of TransDigm Inc.) acquired substantially all of the aerospace-related assets of Dukes, Inc. and GST Industries, Inc. (collectively “Dukes Aerospace”) for approximately $96 million in cash, subject to adjustment based on the level of working capital as of the closing date of the acquisition. In addition, the agreement provides for potential earn-out payments up to a total of $60 million over four years based on the achievement of certain growth targets. Dukes Aerospace is a supplier of proprietary, highly engineered components primarily to the business jet, regional jet, and military aerospace markets, along with commercial and military helicopter markets. The products are comprised primarily of highly engineered valves and certain pumps, solenoids and related components. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. The preliminary purchase price allocation includes a fair value liability of $8 million recorded for the potential earn-out payments.  

Woodward HRT Product Line Acquisition  

On August 10, 2009, TransDigm Inc., through its AeroControlex Group Inc. subsidiary, acquired certain product line assets of Woodward HRT, Inc., a subsidiary of Woodward Governor Company (“Woodward HRT product line”) for approximately $48.7 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.7 million paid in February 2010. The product line comprises a range of highly engineered fuel and pneumatic valves and surge suppressors, the majority of which are used on military rotary and fixed wing aircraft, all of which fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction. Woodward Governor had recently acquired this business as part of its acquisition of HR Textron, Inc.  

Acme Aerospace Acquisition  

On July 24, 2009, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Acme Aerospace, Inc. (“Acme”) for approximately $40.9 million in cash, which includes a purchase price adjustment of $0.2 million paid in October 2009. Acme is a designer and manufacturer of proprietary, highly engineered components to the commercial aerospace industry, comprising primarily fibrous nickel cadmium main ship batteries, battery chargers, battery back-up systems and power conversion equipment. These products fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  

Aircraft Parts Corporation Acquisition  

On December 16, 2008, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Aircraft Parts Corporation (“APC”) for approximately $66.9 million in cash, net of a purchase price adjustment of $0.7 million received in November 2009. APC is a designer and manufacturer of starter generators, generator control units and related components for turbine engines, all of which fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  

Unison Product Line Acquisition  

On September 26, 2008, TransDigm Inc., through its wholly-owned Champion Aerospace, LLC subsidiary, acquired certain assets related to the magneto and harness product line business of Unison Industries, LLC  

27  

Table of Contents 

 (“Unison”) for approximately $68.3 million in cash, net of a purchase price adjustment of $1.1 million received in November 2008. The acquired product line includes the highly engineered SLICKTM magnetos, harnesses and components, which are used on substantially all of the world’s general aviation piston aircraft. These products fit well with Champion’s existing product offerings and TransDigm’s overall business direction.  

CEF Acquisition  

On May 7, 2008, TransDigm Inc. acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of CEF Industries, Inc. (“CEF”) for approximately $84.5 million in cash, net of a purchase price adjustment of $0.5 million received in January 2009. CEF is a designer and manufacturer of specialized and highly engineered actuators, pumps and related components primarily for the military aerospace market, all of which fit well with TransDigm’s overall business direction.  

EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined  

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) EBITDA represents earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA As Defined represents EBITDA plus, as applicable for each relevant period, certain adjustments as set forth in the reconciliation of net income to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information and limitations regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.  

 (2) Represents purchase accounting adjustments to inventory associated with the acquisitions of various businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was sold.  

 (3) Represents costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into TD Group’s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related costs.  

 (4) Represents, for periods after October 1, 2009, transaction-related costs comprising deal fees; legal, financial and tax due diligence expenses; and valuation costs that are now required to be expensed as incurred.  

 (5) Represents the expenses recognized by us under our stock option plans and our deferred compensation plans.  

28  

Table of Contents 

The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Represents interest expense excluding the amortization of debt issue costs and note premium and discount.  

 (2) Represents the compensation expense recognized by TD Group under its stock plans.  

 (3) EBITDA represents earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA As Defined represents EBITDA plus, as applicable for each relevant period, certain adjustments as set forth in the reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to EBITDA and EBITDA As Defined. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information and limitations regarding these non-GAAP financial measures.  

 (4) Represents purchase accounting adjustments to inventory associated with the acquisitions of various businesses and product lines that were charged to cost of sales when the inventory was sold.  

 (5) Represents costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses and product lines into TD Group’s operations, facility relocation costs and other acquisition-related costs.  

 (6) Represents, for periods after October 1, 2009, transaction-related costs comprising deal fees; legal, financial and tax due diligence expenses; and valuation costs that are now required to be expensed as incurred.  

 (7) Represents the expenses recognized by us under our stock option plans and our deferred compensation plans.  

Trend Information  

We predominantly serve customers in the commercial, regional, business jet and general aviation aftermarket, which accounts for approximately 40% of total sales; the commercial aerospace OEM market, comprising large commercial transport manufacturers and regional and business jet manufacturers, which accounts for approximately 23% of total sales; and the defense market, which accounts for approximately 34% of total sales. Non-aerospace sales comprise approximately 3% of our total sales.  

The commercial aerospace industry, including the aftermarket and OEM market, is impacted by the health of the global economy and geo-political events around the world. The commercial aerospace industry had shown strength with increases in revenue passenger miles, or RPMs, between 2003 and 2008, as well as increases in OEM production and backlog, however, the recent global economic downturn negatively impacted the commercial aerospace industry causing RPMs to decline slightly in 2009. In 2010, the commercial aerospace industry has slightly rebounded with increases in RPMs, as well the large commercial OEM sector (aircraft with 100 or more seats) with order announcements by The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S. leading to planned  

29  

Table of Contents 

 increases in production. The 2011 leading indicators and industry consensus suggest that conditions in the commercial transport market sector are likely to improve, including a return to RPM growth and a modest acceleration of capacity growth.  

The defense aerospace market is dependent on government budget constraints, the timing of orders and the extent of global conflicts. It is not necessarily affected by general economic conditions that affect the commercial aerospace industry.  

Our presence in both the commercial aerospace and military sectors of the aerospace industry may mitigate the impact on our business of any specific industry risk. We service a diversified customer base in the commercial and military aerospace industry, and we provide components to a diverse installed base of aircraft, which mitigates our exposure to any individual airframe platform. At times, declines in sales in one channel have been offset by increased sales in another. However, due to differences between the profitability of our products sold to OEM and aftermarket customers, variation in product mix can cause variation in gross margin.  

There are many short-term factors (including inventory corrections, unannounced changes in order patterns, strikes and mergers and acquisitions) that can cause short-term disruptions in our quarterly shipment patterns as compared to previous quarters and the same periods in prior years. To normalize for short-term fluctuations, we tend to look at our performance over several quarters or years of activity rather than discrete short-term periods. As such, it can be difficult to determine longer-term trends in our business based on quarterly comparisons.  

There are also fluctuations in OEM and aftermarket ordering and delivery requests from quarter-to-quarter, as well as variations in product mix from quarter-to-quarter, that may cause positive or negative variations in gross profit margins since commercial aftermarket sales have historically produced a higher gross margin than sales to commercial OEMs. Again, in many instances these are timing events between quarters and must be balanced with macro aerospace industry indicators.  

Commercial Aftermarket  

The key growth factors in the commercial aftermarket include worldwide RPMs and the size and activity level of the worldwide fleet of aircraft. Although RPMs increased annually between 2003 and 2008, 2009 had negative growth as a result of the expected reductions in air traffic and capacity due to the slowdown in the global economy. Current industry consensus indicates that RPMs is stabilizing and will return to positive growth thereafter.  

Commercial OEM Market  

There is industry consensus that conditions in the commercial transport market sector have improved recently. We are expecting increased activity in the large commercial OEM sector (aircraft with 100 or more seats) driven by order announcements by The Boeing Company and Airbus S.A.S. Furthermore, the business jet OEM market significantly declined in 2009 and 2010 and is expected to bottom out in the near future. This market has also been negatively impacted by the slowdown in economic growth, corporate profits, commodity prices and stock market returns across the world.  

Defense  

In recent years, defense spending has reached historic highs, due in part to the military engagements in Afghanistan and Iraq and the war on terrorism. Our military business fluctuates from year to year, and is dependent, to a degree, on government budget constraints, the timing of orders and the extent of global conflicts. We anticipate that military related sales of our types of products could be flat to modestly down in future years over the current high levels.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies  

Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with GAAP, which often requires the judgment of management in the selection and application of certain accounting principles and methods. Management believes that the quality and reasonableness of our most critical policies enable the fair presentation of our financial position and results of operations. However, investors are cautioned that the sensitivity of financial statements to these methods, assumptions and estimates could create materially different results under different conditions or using different assumptions.  

We have identified the following as the most critical accounting policies upon which our financial status depends. These critical policies were determined by considering accounting policies that involve the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments. Our most critical accounting policies are as follows:  

Revenue Recognition and Related Allowances: Revenue is recognized from the sale of products when title and risk of loss passes to the customer, which is generally at the time of shipment. Substantially all sales are made pursuant to firm, fixed-price purchase orders received from customers. Provisions for returns, uncollectible accounts and the cost of repairs under contract warranty provisions are provided for in the same period as the related revenues are recorded and are principally based on historical results modified, as appropriate, by the most current information available. We have a history of making reasonably dependable estimates of such allowances; however, due to uncertainties inherent in the estimation process, it is possible that actual results may vary from the estimates and the differences could be material.  

Management estimates the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the aging of the accounts receivable and customer creditworthiness. The allowance also incorporates a provision for the estimated impact of disputes with customers. Management’s estimate of the allowance amounts that are necessary includes amounts for specifically identified losses and a general amount for estimated losses based on historical information. The determination of the amount of the allowance for doubtful accounts is subject to significant levels of judgment and estimation by management. If circumstances change or economic conditions deteriorate, management may need to increase the allowance for doubtful accounts.  

The Company provides limited warranties in connection with the sale of its products. The warranty period for products sold varies throughout the Company’s operations, generally ranging from 90 days to six years. In addition, certain contracts with distributors contain right of return provisions. The Company accrues for estimated returns and warranty claims based on knowledge of product performance issues and excess inventories provided by its customers and industry sources. The Company also provides a general amount based on historical results. Historically, actual product returns and warranty claims have not differed materially from the estimates originally established.  

Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost of inventories is determined by the average cost and the first-in, first-out (FIFO) methods for all locations except CEF, which determines the cost of inventories using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. Because the Company sells products that are installed on airframes that can be in-service for 30 or more years, it must keep a supply of such products on hand while the airframes are in use. Provision for potentially obsolete or slow-moving inventory is made based on our analysis of inventory levels, past usage and future sales forecasts. Although management believes that the Company’s estimates of obsolete and slow-moving inventory are reasonable, actual results may differ materially from the estimates and additional provisions may be required in the future. In addition, in accordance with industry practice, all inventories are classified as current assets as all inventories are available and necessary to support current sales, even though a portion of the inventories may not be sold within one year.  

Intangible Assets: Mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method and have resulted in significant amounts of identifiable intangible assets and goodwill. Fair value adjustments to the  

31  

Table of Contents 

 Company’s assets and liabilities are recognized and the results of operations of the acquired business are included in our consolidated financial statements from the effective date of the merger or acquisition. We generally use third-party appraisals to assist us in determining the fair value adjustments.  

Intangible assets other than goodwill are recognized if the benefit of the intangible asset is obtained through contractual or other legal rights, or if the intangible asset can be sold, transferred, licensed or exchanged, regardless of the Company’s intent to do so. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and are reviewed at least annually for impairment based on cash flow projections and fair value estimates. The determination of undiscounted cash flows is based on the Company’s strategic plans and long-range planning forecasts. The revenue growth rates included in the plans are based on industry and Company specific data. The profit margin assumptions included in the plans are projected based on the current cost structure and anticipated cost changes. If different assumptions were used in these plans, the related undiscounted cash flows used in measuring impairment could be different and the recognition of an impairment loss might be required. Intangible assets, such as goodwill, trademarks and trade names that have an indefinite useful life are not amortized. All other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives.  

GAAP requires that the annual, and any interim, impairment assessment be performed at the reporting unit level. The reporting unit level is the operating subsidiary level for the Company. Substantially all goodwill was determined and recognized for each operating subsidiary pursuant to the accounting for the merger or acquisition as of the date of each transaction, and therefore the allocation of goodwill among reporting units was immaterial for purposes of the impairment assessment. With respect to acquisitions integrated into an existing operating subsidiary, any related goodwill is combined with goodwill of the operating subsidiary.  

Stock Options: The Company accounts for the cost of its stock options in accordance with GAAP, which requires the measurement of compensation expense under the stock option plan to be based on the fair value of the awards under the plan on the grant dates and amortizes the expense over the options’ vesting periods. Compensation expense is recorded over the service period using the straight-line method for service-based awards and in the service period corresponding to the performance target for performance-based awards.  

Results of Operations  

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain operating data of the Company, including presentation of the amounts as a percentage of net sales (amounts in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2009  

Net Sales. Net sales increased by $66.1 million, or 8.7%, to $827.7 million for fiscal 2010 from $761.5 million for fiscal 2009. Sales of $73.8 million resulted from the acquisitions of Aircraft Parts Corporation, Acme  

32  

Table of Contents 

 and the Woodward HRT product line in fiscal 2009 as well as the recent acquisitions of Dukes Aerospace and Semco in fiscal 2010.  

Sales excluding acquisitions declined by $7.6 million, or 1.0%, from the prior year. The decline in organic sales was primarily due to a decrease of $18.7 million of commercial OEM sales resulting primarily from the business jet OEM’s significant production rate reductions and related inventory reductions resulting from the impact of the global economic conditions. Partially offsetting the decline in organic commercial OEM sales was (i) an increase of $6.2 million in commercial aftermarket sales due to the apparent beginning of a long awaited upturn in global air traffic; and (ii) an increase of $2.7 million in defense sales primarily due to increased demand for OEM products across most of our product lines.  

Cost of Sales and Gross Profit. Cost of sales increased by $22.4 million, or 6.7%, to $354.6 million for fiscal 2010 from $332.2 million for fiscal 2009. The increase in the dollar amount of cost of sales was primarily due to increased volume associated with the higher net sales discussed above. In addition, the increase was partially attributable to higher costs incurred to integrate acquired businesses into TD Group’s operations and purchase accounting adjustments to inventory that were charged to cost of sales of $3.3 million.  

Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased to 57.2% for fiscal 2010 from 56.4% for fiscal 2009. The dollar amount of gross profit increased by $43.7 million, or 10.2%, to $473.1 million for fiscal year 2010 from $429.3 million for fiscal 2009. The increase in the amount of gross profit was primarily due to the following items:  

   •    Sales of $73.8 million from the acquisitions indicated above contributed gross profit of approximately $26 million in fiscal 2010, which includes the acquisition-related costs incurred in connection with those acquisitions. These acquisitions diluted gross profit as a percentage of sales for fiscal 2010 by approximately 2 percentage points.  

   •    Favorable product mix, favorable product pricing on our proprietary products and cost reduction efforts partially offset by the negative impact of fixed overhead costs spread over lower production volume (excluding acquisitions). The net impact of these items resulted in increased gross profit of approximately $18 million in fiscal 2010 despite the decline in organic sales of $7.6 million discussed above.  

Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses increased by $14.9 million or 18.6%, to $94.9 million, 11.5% of net sales, for fiscal 2010 from $80.0 million, or 10.5% of net sales, for fiscal 2009. This increase was primarily due to higher selling and administrative expenses relating to recent acquisitions of approximately $6.4 million, transaction-related expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition of Dukes Aerospace and Semco Instruments of approximately $2.7 million, higher research and development expenses primarily relating to Airbus A350 and A380 platforms more than offsetting declines in expenses on the Boeing 787, new business development expenses and higher professional fees.  

Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization of intangibles increased to $15.1 million for fiscal 2010 from $13.9 million for fiscal 2009. The net increase of $1.2 million was primarily due to amortization expense related to the additional identifiable intangible assets recognized in connection with acquisitions during the last twelve months partially offset by the order backlog becoming fully amortized in fiscal 2009 relating to prior acquisitions.  

Income from Operations. Operating income increased by $27.7 million, or 8.2%, to $363.1 million for fiscal 2010 from $335.4 million for fiscal 2009, primarily due to higher sales and other factors described above.  

Interest Expense-Net. Interest expense-net increased $27.8 million, or 33.0%, to $112.2 million for fiscal 2010 from $84.4 million for fiscal 2009, comprising an increase in interest expense of $26.7 million and a decrease in interest income of $1.1 million. Interest expense increased primarily due to interest expense of approximately $37.3 million attributable to the $425 million of 7 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2014 issued  

33  

Table of Contents 

 in October 2009. Partially offsetting the increase was lower interest rates on the Company’s existing floating-rate borrowings under its senior secured credit facility. The Company’s weighted average level of outstanding borrowings was approximately $1.78 billion for fiscal 2010 and approximately $1.36 billion for fiscal 2009. The average interest rate on total debt was approximately 6.0% for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below). Interest income was lower primarily due to lower interest rates on our invested cash balances.  

Income Taxes. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before income taxes was approximately 34.8% for fiscal 2010 compared to 35.1% for fiscal 2009. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to reductions in estimated state tax obligations and domestic tax credits.  

Net Income. Net income increased $0.5 million, or 0.3%, to $163.4 million for fiscal 2010 compared to $162.9 million for fiscal 2009, primarily as a result of the factors referred to above.  

Earnings per Share. The basic and diluted earnings per share, calculated under the two-class method, was $2.52 per share for fiscal 2010 and $3.10 per share for fiscal 2009. Due to the special cash dividend declared and paid during the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the net income for fiscal 2010 of $163.4 million was reduced by an allocation of dividends to participating securities of $30.3 million (approximately $0.57 per share) resulting in a net income applicable to common stockholders of $133.1 million.  

Fiscal year ended September 30, 2009 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2008  

Net Sales. Net sales increased by $47.8 million, or 6.7%, to $761.5 million for fiscal 2009 from $713.7 million for fiscal 2008. Sales of $64.7 million resulted from the acquisitions of CEF and the Unison product line in fiscal 2008 as well as the recent acquisitions of Aircraft Parts Corporation, Acme and the Woodward HRT product line.  

Sales excluding acquisitions declined by $16.9 million, or 2.4%, from the prior year. The net decline in organic sales was primarily due to: (i) a decrease of $30.4 million of commercial OEM sales resulting primarily from the impact of the significant decline in production rates in the business jet market resulting from the continued impact of global economic conditions negatively impacting the business jet market and a reduction in sales to The Boeing Company due to its employee strike; (ii) a decrease of $20.1 million in commercial aftermarket sales due to the impact of the global economic downturn resulting in a decline in worldwide airline traffic and business jet activity; and (iii) an increase of $37.9 million in defense sales primarily due to increased demand for OEM and aftermarket spare parts and repairs across most of our product lines.  

Cost of Sales and Gross Profit. Cost of sales increased by $4.4 million, or 1.4%, to $332.2 million for fiscal 2009 from $327.8 million for fiscal 2008. The increase in the dollar amount of cost of sales was primarily due to increased volume associated with the higher net sales of $47.8 million discussed above and higher acquisition-related costs of $3.4 million, partially offset by the cost savings from the work force reductions discussed below.  

Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased to 56.4% for fiscal 2009 from 54.1% for fiscal 2008. The dollar amount of gross profit increased by $43.4 million, or 11.2%, to $429.3 million for fiscal 2009 from $385.9 million for fiscal 2008. The increase in the amount of gross profit was primarily due to the following items:  

   •    Sales of $64.7 million from the acquisitions indicated above contributed gross profit of approximately $23 million in fiscal 2009, which includes the acquisition-related costs incurred in connection with those acquisitions. These acquisitions diluted gross profit as a percentage of sales for fiscal 2009 by approximately 2 percentage points.  

   •    Reductions in manufacturing workforce of approximately 10% which occurred from mid-calendar year 2008 throughout calendar year 2009. These reductions in manufacturing workforce were in response to an anticipated drop in overall commercial aerospace market sales. These workforce reductions resulted in cost savings which increased gross profit by approximately $10 million in fiscal 2009.  

34  

Table of Contents 

   •    Favorable product mix, meaning that the lower margin OEM product sales dropped more than the higher margin aftermarket product sales, favorable product pricing on our proprietary products and other cost reduction efforts partially offset by the impact of fixed overhead costs spread over lower production volume (excluding acquisitions). These factors resulted in increased gross profit of approximately $10 million in fiscal 2009 despite the decrease in organic sales.  

Selling and Administrative Expenses. Selling and administrative expenses increased by $5.4 million or 7.2%, to $80.0 million for fiscal 2009 from $74.7 million for fiscal 2008. This increase was primarily due to the higher sales discussed above.  

Amortization of Intangibles. Amortization of intangibles increased by $1.9 million to $13.9 million for fiscal 2009 from $12.0 million for fiscal 2008 primarily due to the recent acquisitions discussed above.  

Income from Operations. Operating income increased by $36.1 million, or 12.1%, to $335.4 million for fiscal 2009 from $299.2 million for fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher sales and other factors described above.  

Interest Expense-Net. Interest expense decreased $8.3 million, or 8.9%, to $84.4 million for fiscal 2009 from $92.7 million for fiscal 2008 primarily due to lower interest rates partially offset by a reduction in interest income of $4.5 million. The Company’s weighted average level of outstanding borrowings was approximately $1.36 billion during both fiscal 2009 and 2008 year while the average interest rate decreased to approximately 6.0% during fiscal 2009 from 6.9% for the comparable period last year.  

Income Taxes. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before income taxes was approximately 35.1% for fiscal 2009 compared to 35.6% for fiscal 2008. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an increase in the research and development tax credit.  

Net Income. Net income increased $29.8 million, or 22.4% to $162.9 million for fiscal 2009 compared to $133.1 million for fiscal 2008, primarily as a result of the factors referred to above.  

Earnings per Share. The basic and diluted earnings per share, calculated under the two-class method, was $3.10 per share for fiscal 2009 and $2.56 per share for fiscal 2008.  

Backlog  

As of September 30, 2010, the Company estimated its sales order backlog at $467 million compared to an estimated sales order backlog of $402 million as of September 30, 2009. The increase in backlog is due to the acquisitions of Dukes Aerospace and Semco, discussed above, totaling approximately $35 million and an increase in orders across existing product lines in both OEM and aftermarket channels, reflecting the apparent beginning of a long awaited upturn in global air traffic. The majority of the purchase orders outstanding as of September 30, 2010 are scheduled for delivery within the next twelve months. Purchase orders may be subject to cancellation or deferral by the customer prior to shipment. The level of unfilled purchase orders at any given date during the year will be materially affected by the timing of the Company’s receipt of purchase orders and the speed with which those orders are filled. Accordingly, the Company’s backlog as of September 30, 2010 may not necessarily represent the actual amount of shipments or sales for any future period.  

Foreign Operations  

Although we manufacture substantially all of our products in the United States, we manufacture some products in Malaysia through our wholly-owned Malaysian subsidiary and some products in Mexico through a maquiladora relationship with a third party. We sell our products in the United States, as well as in foreign countries. Substantially all of our foreign sales are transacted in U.S. dollars and, therefore, we have no material  

35  

Table of Contents 

 exposure to fluctuations in the rate of exchange between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar as a result of foreign sales. In addition the amount of components or other raw materials or supplies that we purchase from foreign suppliers, including our Malaysian manufacturing subsidiary, are not material, with substantially all such transactions being made in U.S. dollars. Accordingly, we have no material exposure to currency fluctuations in the rate of exchange between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar arising from these transactions.  

Our direct sales to foreign customers were approximately $170.6 million, $150.4 million, and $144.3 million for fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Sales to foreign customers are subject to numerous additional risks, including the impact of foreign government regulations, political uncertainties and differences in business practices. There can be no assurance that foreign governments will not adopt regulations or take other action that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on the business or market opportunities of the Company within such governments’ countries. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the political, cultural and economic climate outside the United States will be favorable to our operations and growth strategy.  

Inflation  

Many of the Company’s raw materials and operating expenses are sensitive to the effects of inflation, which could result in changing operating costs. The effects of inflation on the Company’s businesses during the fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 were not significant.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We have historically maintained a capital structure comprising a mix of equity and debt financing. We vary our leverage both to optimize our equity return and to pursue acquisitions. We expect to meet our current debt obligations as they come due through internally generated funds from current levels of operations and/or through refinancing in the debt or equity markets prior to the maturity dates of our debt.  

We continually evaluate our debt facilities to assess whether they most efficiently and effectively meet the current and future needs of our business. The Company evaluates from time to time the appropriateness of its current leverage, taking into consideration the Company’s debt holders, equity holders, credit ratings, acquisition opportunities and other factors. The Company’s debt leverage ratio, which is computed as total debt divided by EBITDA As Defined for the applicable twelve-month period, has varied widely during the Company’s history, ranging from approximately 3.5 to 6.5. Our debt leverage ratio for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 was approximately 4.3.  

Notwithstanding the definitive agreement to acquire McKechnie Aerospace Holdings, Inc. described below, the Company has not, at this time, determined to change the nature of its debt facilities. However, in the future, the Company may increase its borrowings in connection with acquisitions, if cash flow from operations becomes insufficient to fund current operations or for other short-term cash needs or for stock repurchases or dividends. Our future leverage will also be impacted by the then current conditions of the credit markets.  

We note that our senior secured credit facility matures in June 2013 and our 7 3/4% Senior Secured Notes under our Indentures mature in July 2014. As always, we are evaluating our options with respect to the maturity of such indebtedness. Notwithstanding the definitive agreement to acquire McKechnie Aerospace Holdings, Inc. described below, our current plan is to refinance a significant portion of our long-term debt upon maturity or prior to that time if the conditions of the credit markets become more favorable.  

On September 25, 2010, TransDigm entered into a Definitive Agreement with McKechnie Holdings LLC to purchase all of the outstanding stock of McKechnie, for a total purchase price on a cash-free, debt-free basis of approximately $1,265 million in cash. The Purchase Agreement contains representations, warranties, covenants and conditions that we believe are customary for a transaction of this size and type, as well as indemnification provisions subject to specified limitations. The closing of the McKechnie acquisition, which is expected before  

36  

Table of Contents 

 the end of the calendar year, is subject to several conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals, and there can be no assurance that the McKechnie acquisition will be consummated as contemplated, or at all. We intend to finance the McKechnie acquisition and concurrently refinance a portion of our existing indebtedness through a combination of senior subordinated notes and borrowings under a new senior secured credit facility. If we consummate the McKechnie acquisition, we expect to add approximately $1,300 million of indebtedness.  

Operating Activities. The Company generated $197.3 million of cash from operating activities on net income of $163.4 million during fiscal 2010 compared to $197.1 million of cash from operating activities generated on net income of $162.9 million during fiscal 2009.  

The Company generated $197.1 million of cash from operating activities during fiscal 2009 compared to $189.6 million generated during fiscal 2008. The increase of $7.5 million in fiscal 2009 is primarily due to an increase in net income of $29.8 million partially offset by the payout of the deferred compensation liability of $6.2 and the change in income taxes receivable (including the impact of the excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options) of $12.8 million.  

Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $176.6 million during fiscal 2010 consisting primarily of the acquisitions of Dukes Aerospace and Semco for a total of $166.6 million and capital expenditures of $12.9 million. Net cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2010 also includes cash proceeds of $2.9 million from the sale of real estate no longer utilized that was acquired in a previous acquisition.  

Cash used in investing activities was $168.4 million during fiscal 2009 consisting primarily of the acquisitions of the businesses of Aircraft Parts Corporation, Acme and Woodward HRT product lines for a total of $155.2 million and capital expenditures of $13.2 million.  

Cash used in investing activities was $165.0 million during fiscal 2008 consisting of the acquisitions of the businesses of CEF and the Unison product line for a total of $154.1 million and capital expenditures of $10.9 million.  

Financing Activities. Net cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2010 was $23.2 million, which comprised $404.2 million of net proceeds from the issuance of the 7  3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes in October 2009, $404.9 million of dividends and dividend equivalent payments, and $23.8 million of cash for tax benefits related to share-based payment arrangements and from the exercise of stock options.  

Net cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2009 was $2.4 million related to the exercise of stock options of $17.6 million partially offset by purchases of treasury stock amounting to $15.2 million.  

Cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2008 of $28.5 million related to the exercise of stock options.  

Description of Current Senior Secured Credit Facility and Indentures  

In June 2006 TransDigm refinanced its entire debt structure. In connection with the refinancing, TransDigm Inc. obtained a new senior secured credit facility. The senior secured credit facility was amended in 2007 in connection with the acquisition of ATI. The senior secured credit facility consists of a $780 million in term loans and a $200 million revolving loan facility. In addition, under the terms of the senior secured credit facility, TransDigm Inc. has the right to request (but no lender was committed to provide) additional term loans of up to $300 million, subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, including pro forma compliance with the financial covenant contained in the senior secured credit facility after giving effect to any such incremental term loan borrowings. At September 30, 2010, $198.0 million of the revolving credit facility was available.  

37  

Table of Contents 

The term loan facility will mature in June 2013 and is not subject to interim scheduled amortization, but is subject to certain prepayment requirements. Under the amended terms of the senior secured credit facility, commencing 90 days after the end of fiscal 2008 and each fiscal year thereafter, TransDigm Inc. is required to prepay outstanding term loans in a principal amount equal to 50% of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the senior secured credit facility); provided that the amount of the prepayment will be reduced to 25% of Excess Cash Flow if the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at the end of the applicable fiscal year is less than 5.00 to 1.00, but greater than 4.50 to 1.00. TransDigm Inc. will not be required to prepay any of the term loans if the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the end of the applicable fiscal year is equal to or less than 4.50 to 1.00 or if the term loans achieve certain minimum credit ratings at the end of such fiscal year. “Excess Cash Flow” is a negotiated definition generally designed to capture the cash that was generated by our business in excess of cash used in the business. “Consolidated Leverage Ratio” means the ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to the aggregate amount of EBITDA As Defined, calculated on a pro forma basis. TransDigm’s Consolidated Leverage Ratio was approximately 4.2 to 1.00 at September 30, 2010, thus the Company was not obligated to make a prepayment of the term loans based upon the Excess Cash Flow provision.  

In addition, subject to exceptions (including reinvestment in productive assets), TransDigm Inc. is required to offer to prepay the term loans with the net proceeds of certain asset sales. The revolving loan facility will mature and the commitments thereunder will terminate in June 2012.  

The senior secured credit facility is guaranteed by TD Group and all of TransDigm Inc.’s current domestic restricted subsidiaries, and is secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of the existing property and assets of TransDigm Inc. and all of TransDigm Inc.’s existing domestic restricted subsidiaries, and a first priority pledge of the capital stock of TransDigm Inc. and TransDigm Inc.’s domestic subsidiaries.  

The interest rates per annum applicable to loans, other than swingline loans, under the senior secured credit facility are, at the Company’s option, equal to either an alternate base rate or an adjusted LIBO rate for one, two, three or six-month (or to the extent available to each lender, nine or twelve month) interest periods chosen by TransDigm Inc., in each case, plus an applicable margin percentage. The alternate base rate is the greater of (1) Credit Suisse’s prime rate or (2) 50 basis points over the weighted average rates on overnight Federal funds as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The adjusted LIBO rate is determined by reference to settlement rates established for deposits in dollars in the London interbank market for a period equal to the interest period of the loan as adjusted for the maximum reserve percentages established by the Board of Governors of the United States Federal Reserve. The applicable margin percentage is a percentage per annum equal to (1) 1.00% for alternate base rate term loans, (2) 2.00% for adjusted LIBO rate term loans, (3) in the case of alternate base rate revolving loans and adjusted LIBO rate revolving loans, a percentage which varies based on the consolidated leverage ratio of TransDigm Inc. as of the relevant date of determination.  

TransDigm Inc. entered into a three year interest rate swap in June 2006 with Credit Suisse for an initial notional amount of $187 million at a fixed rate of 7.63%. The notional amount decreased to $150 million on September 23, 2008, and the swap agreement expired on June 23, 2009. TransDigm Inc. entered into an additional three year interest rate swap in January 2008 with Credit Suisse for the notional amount of $300 million at a fixed rate of 5.0% through March 2011.  

In connection with the refinancing, TransDigm Inc. also issued $275 million aggregate principal amount of 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes. As a result of the acquisition of ATI, TransDigm Inc. issued an additional $300 million aggregate principal amount of 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes under the Indenture dated as of June 23, 2006.  

In October 2009, TransDigm issued an additional $425 million aggregate principal amount of 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes at an issue price of 97.125% of the principal amount thereof. The terms of the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes issued in October 2009 are substantially identical to the terms of the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes that were issued and sold by TransDigm in June 2006 and February 2007.  

38  

Table of Contents 

The proceeds from the issuance of the New 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes, after the original issue discount, were used to make a cash distribution to TD Group, which paid a special cash dividend to its stockholders of approximately $375 million, made dividend equivalent payments to its holders of stock options of approximately $30 million and paid for transaction-related fees and expenses.  

Such notes do not require principal payments prior to their maturity in July 2014. The notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally and on an unsecured senior subordinated basis, by TD Group and all of our existing domestic subsidiaries.  

Certain Restrictive Covenants in Our Debt Documents  

Both the senior secured credit facility and the Indentures contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the payment of dividends, transactions with affiliates, asset sales, acquisitions, mergers and consolidations, liens and encumbrances, and prepayments of other indebtedness. In addition, the revolving loan facility under the senior secured credit facility requires TransDigm Inc. to comply with a first lien leverage ratio. A breach of any of the covenants or an inability to comply with the required leverage ratio could result in a default under the senior secured credit facility or the Indentures. If any such default occurs, the lenders under the senior secured credit facility and the holders of the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the senior secured credit facility also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. In addition, following an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders thereunder will have the right to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure the debt, which includes our available cash, and they will also have the right to prevent us from making debt service payments on the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes.  

If the McKechnie acquisition is consummated, we anticipate that we will incur additional indebtedness, which will be subject to similar covenants and agreements.  

Stock Repurchase Program  

In October 2008 we announced a program permitting us to repurchase a portion of our outstanding shares not to exceed $50 million in the aggregate. During 2009, a total of 494,100 shares were repurchased under this program at an aggregate cost of approximately $15.2 million. During 2010, we did not repurchase any shares under the program.  

Contractual Obligations  

The following is a summary of contractual cash obligations as of September 30, 2010 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The senior secured credit facility will mature on June 23, 2013 and will not be subject to interim scheduled amortization.  

 (2) Assumes that the variable interest rate on our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility remains constant at 3.6%.  

39  

Table of Contents 

In addition to the contractual obligations set forth above, the Company incurs capital expenditures for the purpose of maintaining and replacing existing equipment and facilities and, from time to time, for facility expansion. Capital expenditures totaled approximately $12.9 million, $13.2 million, and $10.9 million during fiscal 2010, 2009, and fiscal 2008, respectively. The Company expects its capital expenditures in fiscal 2011 to be between $15 million and $20 million and such expenditures are projected to increase moderately thereafter.  

The Company intends to pursue acquisitions that present opportunities consistent with the Company’s business direction. The Company regularly engages in discussions with respect to potential acquisitions and investments. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to consummate an agreement with respect to any future acquisition. The Company’s acquisition strategy may require substantial capital, and no assurance can be given that the Company will be able to raise any necessary funds on acceptable terms or at all. If the Company incurs additional debt to finance acquisitions, total interest expense will increase.  

If the Company has excess cash, it may consider methods by which it can provide cash to its debt or equity holders through a dividend, prepayment of indebtedness, repurchase of stock, or other means. In October 2008, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $50 million, in the aggregate, of the Company’s common stock. During fiscal 2009, the Company repurchased a total of 494,100 shares at an aggregate cost of $15.2 million. The Company did not repurchase any shares under the program in 2010. Whether the Company undertakes additional stock repurchases or other aforementioned activities will depend on prevailing market conditions, the Company’s liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. In addition, the Company may issue additional debt if prevailing market conditions are favorable to doing so.  

The Company’s ability to make scheduled interest payments on, or to refinance, the Company’s indebtedness, or to fund non-acquisition related capital expenditures and research and development efforts, will depend on the Company’s ability to generate cash in the future. This is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond its control. Based on its current levels of operations and absent any disruptive events, management believes that internally generated funds and borrowings available under our revolving loan facility should provide sufficient resources to finance its operations, non-acquisition related capital expenditures, research and development efforts and long-term indebtedness obligations through at least fiscal 2011. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to the Company under the senior secured credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable it to pay its indebtedness or to fund its other liquidity needs. The Company may need to refinance all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. Also, to the extent the Company accelerates its growth plans, consummates acquisitions or has lower than anticipated sales or increases in expenses, the Company may also need to raise additional capital. In particular, increased working capital needs occur whenever the Company consummates acquisitions or experiences strong incremental demand. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to raise additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  

If the McKechnie acquisition is consummated, we anticipate that we will incur additional indebtedness to finance the acquisition and to refinance existing indebtedness.  

New Accounting Standards  

New Accounting Standards Adopted in Fiscal 2010  

In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance requiring assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination, contingent consideration, and certain acquired contingencies to be measured at their fair values as of the date of acquisition. This guidance also requires that acquisition-related costs and restructuring costs be recognized separately from the business combination. This authoritative guidance was adopted as of October 1, 2009.  

40  

Table of Contents 

In connection with the acquisition of Dukes Aerospace and Semco, TD Group recorded approximately $2.7 million of acquisition-related costs, which are included in selling and administrative expenses for the year ended September 30, 2010.  

Additional Disclosure Required by Indenture  

Separate financial statements of TransDigm Inc. are not presented since TD Group has no operations or significant assets separate from its investment in TransDigm Inc. and since the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes are guaranteed by TD Group and all direct and indirect domestic restricted subsidiaries of TransDigm Inc. As of September 30, 2010, two subsidiaries of TransDigm that are not obligated to guarantee the 7 3/4% Senior Subordinated Notes are wholly-owned, foreign subsidiaries that have inconsequential assets, liabilities and equity.  

 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK