ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties known to us which may cause the operating results to vary from anticipated results or which may negatively affect our operating results and profitability are as follows:  

A downturn in the economy and other factors may affect customer spending, which could harm our operating results.  

In general, our sales represent spending on discretionary items or consumption needs by our customers. This spending is affected by many factors, including, among others:  

   •    general business conditions,  

   •    interest rates,  

   •    inflation,  

   •    the liquidity in credit markets,  

   •    taxation,  

   •    fuel prices and electrical power rates,  

   •    unemployment trends,  

   •    terrorist attacks and acts of war, and  

   •    other matters that influence customer confidence and spending.  

A downturn in either the national or local economy where our stores operate or changes in any of the other factors described above could negatively impact sales at our established stores (open more than two years) and their level of profitability.  

Our current estimate for total store market potential in North America could be incorrect.  

One of our primary growth strategies is to grow our business through the introduction of stores into new markets. Based on a snapshot of current marketplace demographics in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico, we currently estimate there is potential market opportunity in North America to support approximately 3,500 stores. We cannot guarantee that our market potential estimates are accurate or that we will open stores to reach the full market opportunity. In addition, a particular local market’s ability to support a store may change because of a change in our store format or the presence of a competitor’s store.  

10  

We may be unable to meet our goals regarding new store openings.  

Our growth is primarily dependent on our ability to attract new customers; and historically, the most effective way to attract new customers has been opening new stores. Our current business strategy focuses on opening stores at a rate of approximately 7% to 10% each year. Failure to open stores at this rate could negatively impact our long-term growth.  

Neither our current business strategy of expanding certain stores with additional product selection or our new business strategy of reducing our rate of new store openings and using the money saved to add outside sales personnel to existing stores has proven successful on a long-term basis.  

In 2002, we began implementing our current business strategy that focuses on store locations with a consistent wholesale merchandising theme, which we refer to as the Customer Service Project or CSP. The viability of this business strategy has not been proven on a long-term basis. In June 2005 we disclosed our intention to convert locations to the CSP2 format. These stores have an additional investment which includes an additional $62,000 in inventory, two additional sales specialists and two additional vehicles in each store. As discussed earlier in this report, during the third quarter of 2007 we chose to modify the CSP2 expansion from a ‘one size fits all’ approach to an ‘a la carte’ approach. This will emphasize inventory expansion based on local customer demographics and based on local product knowledge within our sales force. The results we achieved at our CSP format stores may not be indicative of the results we will achieve at our a la carte format stores. The a la carte format increases our operating costs per store, but may not lead to proportionately increased revenues per store. Our mix of higher and lower margin merchandise in the a la carte stores differs from the merchandise mix in our smaller stores and, therefore, may negatively impact our gross margins in our a la carte format stores. In addition, we may not carry the appropriate merchandise mix during the appropriate time of year in our a la carte format stores. We cannot assure our success in operating the a la carte format stores on a profitable basis. If the a la carte format store is unprofitable, the impact on our financial results could be greater than the impact of an unprofitable smaller format store.  

In April 2007, we introduced our ‘Pathway to Profit’ strategy. This strategy involves slowing our annual new store openings from our historical rate of 13% to 18% to approximately 7% to 10%. The funds saved by opening fewer stores will be invested in additional outside sales personnel, with the goal of increasing our average annual per store sales, capturing earnings leverage, and increasing our pretax operating margin. In a normal economic cycle, we believe that, over a five year period, we can grow our average store sales to $125,000 per month and grow our pretax operating margin from 18% to 23%. However, we cannot assure these results. A downturn in the economy, difficulty in successfully attracting and retaining qualified outside sales personnel, and failure to successfully change our selling process could impact our ability to grow average store sales, capture earnings leverage, and achieve expected pretax earnings results.  

Lower volume orders and changes in our customers and product mix could cause our gross margin percentage to fluctuate or decline in the future.  

From time to time, we have experienced changes in product mix and inbound inventory costs. For example, marketing activities to existing customers and needs communicated to us from existing and prospective customers have caused us to change our product mix in the past. When we change our product mix, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our historical gross margins. Furthermore, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to incrementally increase our gross margin percentage by varying product mix as we have over the last several years. Changes in our customers, product mix, or the volume of our orders could cause our gross margin percentage to fluctuate or decline.  

11  

Opening stores in new markets presents increased risks that may prevent us from being profitable in these new locations.  

We intend to open stores in new markets pursuant to our growth strategy. New stores do not typically achieve operating results comparable to our existing stores until after several years of operation, and stores in new markets face additional challenges to achieving profitability. A new store generates its sales from direct sales calls, a slow process involving repeated contacts. In new markets, we have less familiarity with local customer preferences and customers in these markets are less familiar with Fastenal’s name and capabilities. In addition, entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new, unfamiliar competitors. We cannot assure success in operating our stores in new markets on a profitable basis.  

New store openings may negatively impact our operating results.  

While new stores build the infrastructure for future growth, the first year sales in new stores are low, and the added expenses relating to payroll, occupancy, and transportation costs can impact our ability to leverage earnings. It has been our experience that new stores take approximately ten to twelve months to achieve profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in operating our new stores on a profitable basis.  

The ability to identify new products and products lines, and integrate them into our store and distribution network, may impact our ability to compete and our sales and margins.  

Our success depends in part on our ability to develop product expertise at the store level and identify future products and product lines that complement existing products and product lines and that respond to our customer’s needs. We may not be able to compete effectively unless our product selection keeps up with trends in the markets in which we compete or trends in new products. In addition, our ability to integrate new products and product lines into our stores and distribution network could impact sales and margins.  

Increases in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our cost of goods and distribution and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating margins.  

Costs of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel) and energy costs have been rising during the last several years, which has resulted in increased production costs for our vendors. These vendors typically look to pass their increased costs along to us through price increases. The fuel costs of our distribution operation have risen as well. While we typically try to pass increased vendor prices and fuel costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact, we may not be successful. Failure to fully pass these increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating margins.  

Our ability to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel to staff our stores could impact labor costs, sales at existing stores, and the rate of new store openings.  

Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store managers and store associates, who understand and appreciate our culture and are able to adequately represent this culture to our customers. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas, and the turnover rate in the industry is high. If we are unable to hire and retain personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture and product knowledge, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. An inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may also delay the planned openings of new stores. Any such delays, any material increases in employee turnover rates at existing stores, or any increases in labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results.  

12  

Inclement weather and other disruptions to the transportation network could impact our distribution system.  

Our ability to provide efficient distribution of core business products to our store network is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Disruptions at distribution centers or shipping ports, due to events such as the hurricanes of 2005 and the longshoreman’s strike on the West Coast in 2002, may affect our ability to both maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our products in particularly hard hit regions.  

We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk, and changes in foreign exchange rates could increase our costs to procure products and our foreign sales.  

Because the functional currency related to most of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business, such as sales to third party customers and purchases from suppliers denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies could impact our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices and our foreign sales. Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the Canadian dollar.  

We may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors, which could harm our business and operating results.  

The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry, although consolidating, still remains a large, fragmented industry that is highly competitive. We believe that sales of industrial, construction, and maintenance industry supplies will become more concentrated over the next few years, which may make the industry even more competitive. Our current or future competitors include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources, and we believe they will continue to challenge us with their product selection, financial resources, and services. Increased competition in markets in which we have stores or the adoption by competitors of aggressive pricing strategies and sale methods could cause us to lose market share or to reduce our prices or increase our spending, thus eroding our margins.  

Our revenues and net income may be adversely affected by economic conditions, political situations, and changing laws and regulations in foreign countries, over which we have no control.  

We obtain certain of our products, and our suppliers obtain certain of their products, from China, Taiwan, South Korea, Mexico and other foreign countries. Our vendors could discontinue selling products manufactured in foreign countries at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control or the vendor’s control, including foreign government regulations, political unrest, war, disruption or delays in shipments, changes in local economic conditions and trade issues. Our operating results and inventory levels could suffer if we are unable to promptly replace a vendor who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with a vendor providing equally appealing products.  

The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry is consolidating, which could cause it to become more competitive and could negatively impact our business.  

The industrial, construction and maintenance supply industry in North America is consolidating. This consolidation is being driven by customer needs and supplier capabilities, which could cause the industry to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by suppliers. Customers are increasingly aware of the total costs of fulfillment and of the need to have consistent sources of supply at multiple locations. We believe these customer needs could result in fewer suppliers as the remaining suppliers become larger and capable of being a consistent source of supply.  

There can be no assurance that we will be able in the future to take advantage effectively of the trend toward consolidation. The trend in our industry toward consolidation could make it more difficult for us to maintain operating margins. Furthermore, as our industrial and construction customers face increased foreign competition, and potentially lose business to foreign competitors or shift their operations overseas in an effort to reduce expenses, we may face increased difficulty in growing and maintaining our market share and growth prospects.  

13  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.  

None.  

14  

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES