Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

This section includes a discussion of our results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2012. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Overview  

Our Company is dedicated to three transformational goals that we believe will drive continued growth and leadership in a dynamic industry: know more about our customers and how to service them than anyone else; use conversion and processing technology to extract more value from the materials we manage; and continuously improve our operational efficiency. Our strategy supports diversion from landfills and converting waste into valuable products as customers seek more economically and environmentally sound alternatives. We intend to pursue achievement of our long-term goals in the short-term through efforts to:  

   Ÿ    Grow our markets by implementing customer-focused growth, through customer segmentation and through strategic acquisitions, while maintaining our pricing discipline and increasing the amount of recyclable materials we manage each year;  

   Ÿ    Grow our customer loyalty;  

   Ÿ    Grow into new markets by investing in greener technologies; and  

   Ÿ    Pursue initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure.  

These efforts will be supported by ongoing improvements in information technologies. We believe that execution of our strategy will provide long-term value to our stockholders.  

Highlights of our financial results for 2012 include:  

   Ÿ    Revenues of $13.6 billion compared with $13.4 billion in 2011, an increase of $271 million, or 2.0%. This increase in revenues is primarily attributable to:  

   Ÿ    Increases associated with acquired businesses of $535 million, of which $314 million is related to Oakleaf;  

   Ÿ    Internal revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal business of 0.8% in the current year, which increased revenue by $86 million;  

   Ÿ    Year-over-year increase in internal revenue growth from volume of $67 million, primarily from our recycling brokerage business and our material recovery facilities. Additionally, revenues increased due to higher special waste volumes; and  

   Ÿ    Increases from fuel surcharges and mandated fees of $33 million;  

   Ÿ    Offset in large part by decreases from lower recyclable commodity prices, lower electricity prices and foreign currency translation totaling $446 million;  

   Ÿ    Operating expenses of $8.9 billion, or 65.1% of revenues, compared with $8.5 billion, or 63.8% of revenues, in 2011. This increase of $338 million is due in large part to our acquisition of Oakleaf, and related increases in subcontractor costs, as well as the impact of higher fuel prices on direct and indirect fuel costs, which have related revenue increases as noted above. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in customer rebates because of lower recyclable commodity prices;  

   Ÿ    Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $79 million, or 5.1%, from $1,551 million in 2011 to $1,472 million in 2012, primarily due to reductions in incentive compensation and long-term incentive plan expenses and a decrease in consulting costs due to the implementation of our initiatives focusing on procurement and operational and back-office efficiencies. These decreases were partially offset by increases to support our strategic plan to grow into new markets and expand service offerings, including the acquisition of Oakleaf;  

31  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    Income from operations of $1.9 billion, or 13.6% of revenues, in 2012 compared with $2.0 billion, or 15.2% of revenues, in 2011;  

   Ÿ    Net income of $817 million, or $1.76 per diluted share for 2012, as compared with $961 million, or $2.04 per diluted share in 2011; and  

   Ÿ    We returned $658 million to our shareholders through dividends in 2012, compared with $637 million in 2011.  

The following explanation of certain notable items that impacted the comparability of our 2012 results with 2011 has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2012 results were affected by the following:  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax impairment charges aggregating $109 million attributable primarily to facilities in our medical waste services business and investments in waste diversion technologies. These items had a negative impact of $0.17 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax restructuring costs aggregating $82 million primarily related to our July 2012 restructuring as well as integration costs associated with our acquisition of Oakleaf. These items had a negative impact of $0.11 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a pre-tax charge of $10 million related to the withdrawal from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan and a pre-tax charge of $6 million resulting from a labor union dispute. These items had a negative impact of $0.02 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax charges aggregating $10 million related to an accrual for legal reserves and the impact of a decrease in the risk-free discount rate used to measure our environmental remediation liabilities. These items had a negative impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share.  

The following explanation of certain notable items that impacted the comparability of our 2011 results with 2010 has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2011 results were affected by the following:  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a pre-tax charge of $24 million as a result of a litigation loss, which had a negative impact of $0.03 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax restructuring charges, excluding charges recognized in the operating results of Oakleaf, of $17 million related to our cost savings programs. These charges were primarily related to employee severance and benefit costs and had a negative impact of $0.02 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $11 million related to the Oakleaf acquisition, which includes the operating results of Oakleaf and related interest expense and integration costs. These items had a negative impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a favorable pre-tax benefit of $9 million from a revision to an environmental remediation liability at a closed landfill, which had a positive impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of non-cash, pre-tax asset impairment charges of $9 million primarily related to two of our medical waste services facilities. The impairment charges had a negative impact of $0.01 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a tax benefit of $19 million due to favorable tax audit settlements and favorable adjustments relating to the finalization of our 2010 tax returns. These items had a positive impact of $0.04 on our diluted earnings per share.  

Our 2010 results were affected by the following:  

   Ÿ    The recognition of pre-tax charges aggregating $55 million related to remediation and closure costs at five closed sites, which had a negative impact of $0.07 on our diluted earnings per share;  

32  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    The recognition of net tax charges of $32 million due to refinements in estimates of our deferred state income taxes and the finalization of our 2009 tax returns, partially offset by favorable tax audit settlements, all of which, combined, had a negative impact of $0.07 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   Ÿ    The recognition of a net favorable pre-tax benefit of $46 million for litigation and associated costs, which had a favorable impact of $0.06 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   Ÿ    The recognition of net pre-tax charges of $26 million as a result of the withdrawal of certain of our union bargaining units from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan, which had a negative impact of $0.03 on our diluted earnings per share.  

During 2012, we continued to produce strong cash flows from operating activities and return cash to our shareholders through dividends, despite very challenging commodity market conditions. Our fourth quarter 2012 results were in line with our expectations, and our internal revenue growth from yield was at its highest level for the year, positioning the Company to focus on growing earnings. In 2013, we expect to see increased internal revenue growth from yield and volume, as well as continued benefit from our cost savings programs, including our 2012 restructuring. We will also continue to emphasize strong cash flow to support our dividend, debt reduction, share repurchases, and appropriate acquisition and investment opportunities.  

Free Cash Flow  

As is our practice, we are presenting free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity, in our disclosures because we use this measure in the evaluation and management of our business. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures, plus proceeds from divestitures of businesses (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets. We believe it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. Free cash flow is not intended to replace “Net cash provided by operating activities,” which is the most comparable GAAP measure. However, we believe free cash flow gives investors useful insight into how we view our liquidity. Nonetheless, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt service requirements.  

Our calculation of free cash flow and reconciliation to “Net cash provided by operating activities” is shown in the table below (in millions), and may not be calculated the same as similarly-titled measures presented by other companies:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Proceeds from divestitures of businesses for the year ended December 31, 2011 included the receipt of a payment of $17 million related to a note receivable from a prior year divestiture. This receipt is included as a component of “Other” within “Cash flows from investing activities” in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 to the comparable period in 2011, the decrease was primarily related to the impact of lower cash earnings, an increase in tax payments of $63 million year-over-year, the payment of $59 million to settle the liabilities associated with the termination of our forward starting swaps in September 2012 and unfavorable impacts of working capital changes. The decrease was partially offset by a favorable cash receipt of $72 million resulting from the termination of interest rate swaps in April 2012.  

33  

Table of Contents 

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 to the comparable period in 2010, the change is primarily attributable to decreases in our income tax payments, which positively affected our cash flow from operations, as well as a cash payment of $37 million made when our Canadian hedges matured in December 2010. This increase was partially offset by a favorable cash benefit of $77 million resulting from a litigation settlement in April 2010 and a $65 million federal tax refund in the third quarter of 2010 related to the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary in 2009.  

The increase in capital expenditures is a result of our increased spending on compressed natural gas vehicles, related fueling infrastructure and growth initiatives, and the impact of timing differences associated with cash payments for the previous years’ fourth quarter capital spending. We generally use a significant portion of our free cash flow on capital spending in the fourth quarter of each year. A more significant portion of our fourth quarter 2011 and 2010 spending was paid in cash in 2012 and 2011, respectively, than in the preceding year.  

Acquisition of Oakleaf Global Holdings  

On July 28, 2011, we paid $432 million, net of cash received of $4 million and inclusive of certain adjustments, to acquire Oakleaf. Oakleaf provides outsourced waste and recycling services through a nationwide network of third-party haulers. The operations we acquired generated approximately $580 million in revenues in 2010. We acquired Oakleaf to advance our growth and transformation strategies and increase our national accounts customer base while enhancing our ability to provide comprehensive environmental solutions. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred $1 million of acquisition-related costs, which were classified as “Selling, general and administrative” expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2011, subsequent to the acquisition date, Oakleaf recognized revenues of $265 million and net income of less than $1 million, which are included in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Oakleaf recognized revenues of $617 million and net losses of $29 million, which are included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

The following table shows adjustments since September 30, 2011 to the allocation of the purchase price of Oakleaf to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value; this allocation was finalized as of September 30, 2012 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table presents the final allocation of the purchase price to intangible assets (amounts in millions, except for amortization periods):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

34  

Table of Contents 

Goodwill of $328 million was calculated as the excess of the consideration paid over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill is a result of expected synergies from combining the Company’s operations with Oakleaf’s national accounts customer base and vendor network. The vendor-hauler network expands our partnership with third-party service providers. In many cases we can provide vendor-haulers with opportunities to maintain and increase their business by utilizing our extensive post-collection network. We believe this will generate significant benefits for the Company and for the vendor-haulers. Goodwill has been assigned to our Areas as they are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Goodwill related to this acquisition is not deductible for income tax purposes.  

The following pro forma consolidated results of operations have been prepared as if the acquisition of Oakleaf occurred at January 1, 2010 (in millions, except per share amounts):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Subsequent Event  

In January 2013, we acquired Greenstar, LLC, an operator of recycling and resource recovery facilities. We paid cash consideration of $170 million, subject to post-closing adjustments. Pursuant to the sale and purchase agreement, up to an additional $40 million is payable to the sellers during the period from 2014 to 2018 should Greenstar, LLC satisfy certain performance criteria over this period.  

Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial Information  

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Impairment Testing — In July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) amended authoritative guidance associated with indefinite-lived intangible assets testing. The amended guidance provides companies the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the entity is not required to take further action. The amendments are effective for indefinite-lived intangible impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012; however, early adoption was permitted. The Company’s early adoption of this guidance in 2012 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. Additional information on impairment testing can be found in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Comprehensive Income — In June 2011, the FASB issued amended authoritative guidance associated with comprehensive income, which requires companies to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. This update eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in equity. In December 2011, the FASB deferred the effective date of the specific requirement to present items that are reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income to net income alongside their respective components of net income and other comprehensive income. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with comprehensive income were effective for the Company on January 1, 2012 and have been applied retrospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Fair Value Measurement — In May 2011, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with fair value measurements. This amended guidance defines certain requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with GAAP. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with fair value measurements were effective for the Company on January 1,  

35  

Table of Contents 

 2012 and have been applied prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Goodwill Impairment Testing — In September 2011, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with goodwill impairment testing. The amended guidance provides companies the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before performing the two-step impairment test. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. The amendments are effective for goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011; however, early adoption was permitted. The Company’s early adoption of this guidance in 2011 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements. Additional information on impairment testing can be found in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements — In October 2009, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. This amended guidance addresses the determination of when individual deliverables within an arrangement are required to be treated as separate units of accounting and modifies the manner in which consideration is allocated across the separately identifiable deliverables. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements became effective for the Company on January 1, 2011. The new accounting standard has been applied prospectively to arrangements entered into or materially modified after the date of adoption. The adoption of this guidance has not had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities — In June 2009, the FASB issued revised authoritative guidance associated with the consolidation of variable interest entities. The new guidance primarily uses a qualitative approach for determining whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and, is therefore, required to consolidate the entity. This new guidance generally defines the primary beneficiary as the entity that has (i) the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity that can most significantly impact the entity’s performance and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses and the right to receive benefits from the variable interest entity that could be significant from the perspective of the entity. The new guidance also requires that we continually reassess whether we are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity rather than conducting a reassessment only upon the occurrence of specific events.  

As a result of our implementation of this guidance, effective January 1, 2010, we deconsolidated certain final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation trusts because we share power over significant activities of these trusts with others. Our financial interests in these entities are discussed in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The deconsolidation of these trusts has not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or cash flows during the periods presented.  

Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions  

In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that present the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments, deferred income taxes and reserves associated with our insured and self-insured claims. Each of these items is discussed in additional detail below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Landfills  

Accounting for landfills requires that significant estimates and assumptions be made regarding (i) the cost to construct and develop each landfill asset; (ii) the estimated fair value of final capping, closure and post-closure asset retirement obligations, which must consider both the expected cost and timing of these activities; (iii) the determination of each landfill’s remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and (iv) the airspace associated with each final capping event.  

Landfill Costs — We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs.  

Final Capping Costs — We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate final landfill capping costs to specific final capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post-closure monitoring and maintenance. The estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also consider when the costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post-closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Remaining Permitted Airspace — Our engineers, in consultation with third-party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography.  

Expansion Airspace — We include currently unpermitted expansion airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria:  

   Ÿ    Personnel are actively working on the expansion of an existing landfill, including efforts to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals;  

   Ÿ    It is likely that the approvals will be received within the normal application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill is located;  

37  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;  

   Ÿ    There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could impair the success of such expansion;  

   Ÿ    Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and  

   Ÿ    Airspace and related costs, including additional closure and post-closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design.  

For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if certain of these criteria are no longer met as long as we continue to believe we will ultimately obtain the permit, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill-specific review process that includes approval of our Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 32 landfill sites with expansions included at December 31, 2012, 10 landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Six of these landfills required approval by our Chief Financial Officer because of community or political opposition that could impede the expansion process. The remaining four landfills required approval due to local zoning restrictions or because the permit application processes do not meet the one- or five-year requirements.  

When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement cost related to final capping, closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill.  

Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined in cubic yards, an airspace utilization factor, or AUF, is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and is then adjusted to account for settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site-specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate, and operating practices. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi- level review by our engineering group, and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements.  

After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed as waste is received and deposited at the landfill by dividing the costs by the corresponding number of tons. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change.  

It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post-closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts, could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if it is determined that the expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of the landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment or incur significantly higher amortization expense. If at any time management makes the decision to abandon the expansion effort, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Environmental Remediation Liabilities  

We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party (“PRP”) investigations, settlements, and certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials, external contractor costs and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on a number of estimates and assumptions.  

Where it is probable that a liability has been incurred, we estimate costs required to remediate sites based on site-specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the cost for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third-party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:  

   Ÿ    Management’s judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties’ sites;  

   Ÿ    Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation;  

   Ÿ    The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and  

   Ÿ    The typical allocation of costs among PRPs unless the actual allocation has been determined.  

Asset Impairments  

Our long-lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. We monitor the carrying value of our long-lived assets for potential impairment and test the recoverability of such assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or changes in circumstances, including management decisions pertaining to such assets, are referred to as impairment indicators. If an impairment indicator occurs, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group; (ii) actual third-party valuations; and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market for similar assets. If the fair value of an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs and is included in the “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment and projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized, which could impact our ability to accurately assess whether an asset has been impaired.  

There are additional considerations for impairments of landfills, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, as described below.  

Landfills — The assessment of impairment indicators and the recoverability of our capitalized costs associated with landfills and related expansion projects require significant judgment due to the unique nature of the waste industry, the highly regulated permitting process and the sensitive estimates involved. During the review of a landfill expansion application, a regulator may initially deny the expansion application although the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill  

39  

Table of Contents 

 to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace, or a landfill may be required to cease accepting waste, prior to receipt of the expansion permit. However, such events occur in the ordinary course of business in the waste industry and do not necessarily result in impairment of our landfill assets because, after consideration of all facts, such events may not affect our belief that we will ultimately obtain the expansion permit. As a result, our tests of recoverability, which generally make use of a probability-weighted cash flow estimation approach, may indicate that no impairment loss should be recorded. At December 31, 2012, three of our landfill sites in two jurisdictions, for which we believe receipt of expansion permits is probable, are not currently accepting waste. The net recorded capitalized landfill asset cost for these three sites was $493 million at December 31, 2012. We performed tests of recoverability for these landfills and the undiscounted cash flows resulting from our probability-weighted estimation approach significantly exceeded the carrying values of each of these three sites.  

Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess our goodwill for impairment.  

In July 2012, we announced organizational changes including removing the management layer of our four geographic Groups and consolidating and reducing the number of our geographic Areas through which we evaluate and oversee our Solid Waste business from 22 to 17. With the elimination of the geographic Groups, we have determined that our Areas constitute reporting units and we now assess whether a goodwill impairment exists at the Area level. Goodwill previously assigned to the Groups was allocated to the Areas on a relative fair value basis. This reorganization did not change our other reporting units, including the Wheelabrator business and our other less material reporting units including recycling brokerage and waste diversion technology businesses.  

We assess whether a goodwill impairment exists using both qualitative and quantitative assessments. Our qualitative assessment involves determining whether events or circumstances exist that indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If based on this qualitative assessment we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we will not perform a quantitative assessment.  

If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to perform a qualitative assessment, we perform a quantitative assessment or two-step impairment test to determine whether a goodwill impairment exists at the reporting unit. The first step in our quantitative assessment identifies potential impairments by comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. Fair value is typically estimated using a combination of the income approach and market approach or only an income approach when applicable. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows of the reporting units. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted-average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting units’ expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business. The market approach estimates fair value by measuring the aggregate market value of publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics to our business as a multiple of their reported cash flows. We then apply that multiple to the reporting units’ cash flows to estimate their fair values. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using valuation inputs from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our reporting units.  

Fair value computed by these two methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that these two methods provide a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of our reporting units.  

In the second quarter of 2012, we believed an impairment indicator existed such that the fair value of our Wheelabrator business could potentially be less than its carrying amount because of the negative effect on our revenues of the continued deterioration of electricity commodity prices, coupled with our continued increased exposure to market prices as a result of the expiration of several long-term, fixed-rate electricity commodity  

40  

Table of Contents 

 contracts at our waste-to-energy and independent power facilities, and the expiration of several long-term disposal contracts at above-market rates. As a result, we performed an interim impairment analysis of Wheelabrator’s goodwill balance, of $788 million. We performed the interim quantitative assessment using both an income and a market approach in the second quarter of 2012, which indicated that the estimated fair value of our Wheelabrator business exceeded its carrying value.  

In the fourth quarter of 2012, we performed our annual impairment test of our goodwill balances using a measurement date of October 1, 2012. This impairment test indicated that the estimated fair value of our Wheelabrator business exceeded its carrying value by approximately 10% compared to an excess of 30% at our annual fourth quarter 2011 test. This quantitative assessment was performed using both an income and market approach similar to our interim quantitative assessment. If market prices for electricity worsen or do not recover as we have projected, our disposal volumes or rates decline, our costs or capital expenditures exceed our forecasts or our costs of capital increase, the estimated fair value of our Wheelabrator business could decrease and potentially result in an impairment charge in a future period. We will continue to monitor our Wheelabrator business.  

Our annual goodwill impairment test also indicated that the estimated fair value of our Eastern Canada Area exceeded its carrying value by approximately 5%. This quantitative assessment also was performed using both an income and market approach. The Eastern Canada Area goodwill balance was $295 million at October 1, 2012. If we do not achieve our anticipated disposal volumes, our collection or disposal rates decline, our costs or capital expenditures exceed our forecasts, costs of capital increase, or we do not receive anticipated landfill expansions, the estimated fair value of our Eastern Canada Area could decrease and potentially result in an impairment charge in a future period. We will continue to monitor our Eastern Canada Area.  

Refer to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to goodwill impairment considerations made during the reported periods.  

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Other Than Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill for impairment.  

Beginning in 2012, when performing the impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we generally first conduct a qualitative analysis to determine whether we believe it is more likely than not that an asset has been impaired. If we believe an impairment has occurred, we then evaluate for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of assets to the carrying value. An impairment charge is recognized if the asset’s estimated fair value is less than its carrying value.  

Fair value is typically estimated using an income approach. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted-average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business.  

Fair value computed by this method is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that this method provides a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of the reporting units.  

Refer to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment considerations made during the reported periods.  

Deferred Income Taxes  

Deferred income taxes are based on the difference between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred income tax provision represents the change during the reporting period in the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, net of the effect of acquisitions and dispositions. Deferred tax assets include tax loss and credit carry-forwards and are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on available  

41  

Table of Contents 

 evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We establish reserves for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions may be challenged and potentially disallowed. When facts and circumstances change, we adjust these reserves through our provision for income taxes.  

Insured and Self-Insured Claims  

We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation insurance programs. Our liabilities associated with the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, are based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from our assumptions used. Estimated recoveries associated with our insured claims are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable.  

Results of Operations  

Operating Revenues  

Our operating revenues generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and waste-to-energy services and from sales of commodities by our recycling, waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy operations. Revenues from our collection operations are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility or MRF and our disposal costs. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue generally consists of tipping fees and the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The fees we charge for our collection, disposal, transfer and recycling services generally include fuel surcharges, which are indexed to current market costs for fuel. Our waste-to-energy revenues, which are generated by our Wheelabrator business, are based on the type and weight or volume of waste received at our waste-to-energy facilities and IPPs and amounts charged for the sale of energy and steam. Our “Other” lines of business include Oakleaf, our landfill gas-to-energy operations, Port-O-Let® services, portable self-storage, fluorescent lamp recycling and oil and gas producing properties. Intercompany revenues between our operations have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. These operations are presented as “Other” in the table below. Shown below (in millions) is the contribution to revenues during each year:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

42  

Table of Contents 

The mix of operating revenues from our major lines of business is reflected in the table below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues (dollars in millions) along with an explanation of the significant components of the current period changes:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Calculated by dividing the amount of current year increase or decrease by the prior year’s total company revenue adjusted to exclude the impacts of current year divestitures ($13,374 million and $12,513 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively).  

43  

Table of Contents 

 (b) The amounts reported herein represent the changes in our revenue attributable to average yield for the total Company. We also analyze the changes in average yield in terms of related-business revenues in order to differentiate the changes in yield attributable to our pricing strategies from the changes that are caused by market-driven price changes in commodities. The following table summarizes changes in revenues from average yield on a related-business basis (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (i) Calculated by dividing the increase or decrease for the current year by the prior year’s related business revenue, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year. The table below summarizes the related business revenues for each year, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (ii) Average revenue growth for yield for “Collection and disposal” excludes all electricity-related revenues generated by our Wheelabrator business and our landfill gas-to-energy operations, which are reported as “Electricity” revenues.  

Our revenues increased $271 million, or 2.0%, and $863 million, or 6.9%, for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The year-over-year change in revenues for both periods has been driven by (i) revenue growth from average yield on our collection and disposal operations; (ii) acquisitions, particularly the acquisition of Oakleaf, which increased year-over-year consolidated revenues by $314 million for 2012 and $251 million for 2011; and (iii) market factors, including fluctuations in recyclable commodity prices that negatively affected revenues in 2012 and favorably affected our revenues in 2011; volatility in diesel prices that affects the revenues provided by our fuel surcharge program; foreign currency translation, which negatively affected our revenues from our Canadian operations in 2012 but favorably impacted our revenues in 2011; and lower electricity prices, which correlate with natural gas prices and cause fluctuations in the rates we receive for electricity under our power purchase contracts and merchant transactions. Further affecting revenue changes were revenue increases due to higher volumes in 2012 but revenues declines due to lower volumes in 2011.  

44  

Table of Contents 

The following provides further details associated with our period-to-period change in revenues.  

Average yield  

Collection and disposal average yield — This measure reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer, landfill and waste-to-energy disposal operations, exclusive of volume changes. Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield during both years includes not only base rate changes and environmental and service fee increases, but also (i) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to both the types of services provided and the geographic locations where our services are provided; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business; and (iii) price decreases to retain customers.  

In 2012, revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield was $86 million, or 0.8%, as compared with the prior year. This revenue increase from yield was primarily driven by our collection operations; however, we also experienced yield growth from our disposal operations. Our commercial and industrial lines of business continue to drive our yield growth in our collection operations. Our 0.8% increase for 2012 is less than the 1.8% increase for 2011. This is due in large part to reduced increases of certain service fees and continued pressure from competition in our commercial line of business. Additionally, we have experienced downward pressure on our revenue growth from yield in our residential line of business. Due to competition, it has become increasingly difficult to retain customers and to win new contracts at current average rates; as a result, in many instances, the Company has offered increased services without a commensurate increase in pricing when bidding on or renewing residential contracts and pursuing residential subscription business. These increased services are principally recycling services, which are typically priced lower than our average rates. This combination of increased competition and bundling of complementary services, such as recycling, in the residential line of business has put added pressure on our revenue growth from yield though we did see a steadily improving trend throughout 2012.  

In both 2012 and 2011, our total collection and disposal revenue growth from yield was negatively affected by the expiration and renegotiation of a long-term disposal contract in August 2011 at one of our waste-to-energy facilities in South Florida. The expiration and renegotiation of this contract decreased revenues both in our waste-to-energy disposal line of business, by approximately $17 million and $5 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively; and in our collection line of business, by approximately $7 million and $2 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Certain of the franchise agreements serviced by our collection operations in South Florida contain specific language that ties a portion of their total rate to the disposal rate charged by this waste-to-energy facility to our collection operations. The expiration of this long-term contract in South Florida negatively impacted our total collection and disposal yield by approximately $24 million and $7 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Additionally, for 2012, we experienced further downward pressure on our revenue growth from yield of approximately $7 million resulting from the expiration and renegotiation of a second similar long-term waste-to-energy disposal contract in South Florida at the end of March 2012. We expect this negative trend to continue into 2013. Although the factors discussed above negatively affected our revenue growth from yield in 2012 as compared with 2011, we did see a favorable rate of revenue growth from yield in our landfill line of business during 2012. Overall, we have found that increasing our revenue growth from yield is currently a challenge given the increased service offerings in many of our new contracts and the highly competitive environment. Despite these headwinds, we continue to maintain our pricing discipline in order to improve yield on our base business.  

Revenues from our environmental fee, which are included in average yield on collection and disposal, increased by $41 million and $47 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Environmental fee revenues totaled $344 million in 2012 as compared with $303 million in 2011 and $256 million in 2010. Revenue increase from environmental fees flattened, as we did not implement fee increases in 2012 commensurate with the prior year. During 2013, we are not expecting our environmental fee to contribute significantly to our revenue growth.  

Recycling commodities — Decreases in the prices of the recycling commodities we sold resulted in a decrease in revenues of $428 million, with an estimated negative impact on income from operations of approximately $130 million for 2012. Our year-over-year commodity prices declined almost 25% in 2012 driven  

45  

Table of Contents 

 by the continued increase in supply and lower demand. In 2011, higher recycling commodity prices were the principal driver of our revenue increase of $216 million as compared with 2010, with an estimated favorable impact on income from operations of approximately $60 million. In 2013, we expect recycling commodity sales prices to average levels present at the end of 2012 and be slightly negative in the first half of the year compared to 2012.  

Fuel surcharges and mandated fees — These revenues, which are predominantly generated by our fuel surcharge program, increased by $33 million and $169 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These increases are attributable to the fluctuation in the national average prices for diesel fuel that we use for our fuel surcharge program. The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to the pass-through of fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal governmental agencies at our landfills and transfer stations, which increased $11 million and $6 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   

Volume — Changes in our volume caused our revenue to increase $67 million, or 0.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2012. This is a notable improvement from the prior year when revenue decline due to volume was $187 million, or 1.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

In 2012, our total landfill revenue increased $49 million over the comparable prior year period due to higher third-party volumes, primarily driven by higher special waste volumes in the eastern and mid-western parts of the country. In addition, revenues increased from year-over-year volume growth in our recycling brokerage business and our material recovery facilities by $61 million for 2012. The additional recycling capacity that we added during 2011 and 2012, as well as our continued pursuit of municipal volumes, contributed to this increase in revenues due to volume.  

Volume declines from our collection business accounted for a $65 million revenue decline for the year ended December 31, 2012. The decline was primarily driven by our commercial and, to a lesser extent, our residential collection lines of business, which we attribute to the effects of pricing, competition and diversion of waste by customers, as well as the overall continued weakness in the economy. Revenue declines due to lower volumes in these two collection lines of business were offset, in part, by revenue increases in our industrial collection line of business, driven in large part by the growth of our oilfield services business. Furthermore, revenue increased due to volume growth in our non-traditional collection businesses, as well as in our ancillary services, primarily driven by increases in our medical waste services, our in-plant services and our portable self-storage services businesses. Finally, our 2012 volume growth was favorably impacted by the Hurricane Sandy cleanup efforts in the fourth quarter by about $26 million.  

In 2011, volume declines from our collection business accounted for $327 million of volume-related revenue decline. We experienced commercial and residential collection revenue declines due to lower volume that we attributed to the overall weakness in the economy, as well as the effects of pricing, competition and diversion of waste by consumers. Our industrial collection operations were negatively affected by the economic environment due to the construction slowdown across the United States. Lower third-party volumes in our transfer station operations also caused revenue declines generally attributed to economic conditions and the effects of pricing and competition. Furthermore, the overall year-over-year comparison of volumes in the collection line of business was unfavorably impacted by our year-over-year volume change of $94 million from the oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast in 2010. Additionally, in 2011, we experienced revenue declines at our waste-to-energy facilities, primarily driven by the expiration of a long-term electric power capacity agreement, which was offset to some extent by increases in waste tons processed and electricity produced.  

Revenue declines due to volume detailed above were offset, in part, by revenue increases of $101 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily from year-over-year volume improvements in our recycling brokerage business and in our material recovery facilities. Our continued pursuit of municipal volumes as well as the addition of new single stream recycling facilities during 2011 contributed to these revenue increases due to volume. We also experienced volume-related revenue increases of $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from our strategic growth businesses and our landfill gas-to-energy operations. Additionally, our total landfill revenues increased $41 million in 2011 due to higher third-party volumes as compared with the prior  

46  

Table of Contents 

 year, primarily driven by higher special waste volumes in the eastern and mid-western parts of the country. However, our landfill municipal solid waste volumes declined in 2011 as compared with the prior year due to economic conditions, increased pricing, competition and increased focus on waste reduction and diversion by consumers.  

Acquisitions — Revenues increased $535 million and $449 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, due to acquisitions. Both in 2012 and 2011, the significant revenue increase due to acquisitions was principally associated with Oakleaf, included in our “Other” business. With the anniversary of the Oakleaf acquisition in July 2012, we will not continue to experience the same year-over-year revenue growth from this acquisition. Additionally, in 2012, acquisitions increased our revenues in our collection line of business, due in part to our oilfield services and recycling lines of business. These acquisitions demonstrate our focus on identifying strategic growth opportunities in new, complementary lines of business.  

Operating Expenses  

Our operating expenses include (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs discussed below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are affected by variables such as volumes, distance and fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include interest accretion on landfill liabilities, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs and other landfill site costs; (ix) risk management costs, which include auto liability, workers’ compensation, general liability and insurance and claim costs; and (x) other operating costs, which include, among other costs, equipment and facility rent, property taxes, utilities and supplies.  

Our operating expenses increased $338 million, or 4.0%, when comparing 2012 with 2011 and increased $717 million, or 9.2%, when comparing 2011 with 2010. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 65.1% in 2012, 63.8% in 2011 and 62.5% in 2010. The increases in our operating expenses during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 can largely be attributed to the following:  

Acquisitions and growth initiatives — In both 2012 and 2011, we experienced cost increases attributable to recently acquired businesses and our various growth and business development initiatives. We estimate that these cost increases, which affected each of the operating cost categories identified in the table below, accounted for 109% and 42% of our $338 million and $717 million increases in operating expenses during 2012 and 2011, respectively. Recent acquisitions include Oakleaf and a number of collection operations, including oilfield services, and several recycling operations. In particular, the acquisition of Oakleaf increased operating costs by $263 million and $213 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, primarily impacting subcontractor costs and, to a lesser extent, cost of goods sold, repair and maintenance, and other categories. The increase in operating expenses resulting from acquired businesses was more than offset by increased revenues from acquired businesses.  

Market prices for recyclable commodities — In both 2012 and 2011, volatile market prices for recyclable commodities was the main driver of the changes in cost of goods sold, as presented in the table below, primarily due to customer recycling rebates. Overall market prices for recycling commodities decreased by approximately 25% in 2012 and increased 20% in 2011.  

Volume changes — During 2012, we experienced an increase in variable costs attributable to higher volumes in certain lines of business, particularly our recycling, industrial collection and non-traditional collection businesses. In our non-traditional collection businesses, we experienced volume increases primarily in our in-plant services. Additionally, increased volumes related to Hurricane Sandy contributed to  

47  

Table of Contents 

 higher volumes in the latter part of 2012. During 2011, we experienced volume declines as a result of the ongoing weakness of the overall economic environment, pricing, competition and increased focus on waste reduction and diversion by consumers. We continue to manage our fixed costs and control our variable costs as we experience volume increases and decreases. These cost fluctuations due to volume have impacted each of the operating cost categories identified in the table below.  

The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In addition to the significant items noted above, other factors contributing to the changes in our operating expenses are discussed below:  

Labor and related benefits — The comparability of our labor and related benefits costs for the periods presented has been affected by costs incurred primarily associated with the withdrawal of certain bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans. These costs increased 2012 expense by $10 million and 2010 expense by $26 million.  

The other contributing factors that increased costs in 2012 and 2011 were (i) higher hourly and salaried wages due to merit increases effective April 2011 and 2010 and (ii) increases stipulated in labor union agreements. These costs were offset by lower incentive compensation in 2012.  

Maintenance and repairs — The increase was primarily due to (i) increased fleet maintenance costs, which include services provided by third-parties, tires, parts and internal shop labor costs; and (ii) differences in the timing and scope of planned maintenance projects at our waste-to-energy facilities.  

Subcontractor costs — As noted above, the increases in 2012 and 2011 in subcontractor costs was primarily a result of acquisitions; principally the Oakleaf acquisition. Other contributing factors include; (i) our various growth and business development initiatives, primarily associated with servicing our in-plant services and healthcare solutions customers, (ii) higher fuel prices, as discussed below, which resulted in an increase in the fuel component of our subcontractor costs; and (iii) increased volumes related to Hurricane Sandy during 2012. The comparability to prior years was also affected by $54 million in costs related to oil spill clean up activities in 2010.  

Fuel — On average, diesel fuel prices increased 3% and 29% for 2012 and 2011, respectively. Higher fuel costs resulted in increases in both our direct fuel costs and in the fuel component of our subcontractor costs as compared with the prior periods. Increased revenues attributable to our fuel surcharge largely offset the higher fuel costs. Our fuel surcharges covered approximately 95% of recoverable fuel costs in both 2012 and 2011.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Landfill Operating Costs — The year-over-year decreases in 2012 and 2011 were primarily attributable to the following:  

   Ÿ    The recognition of an unfavorable adjustment of $17 million during 2011 due to a decrease from 3.50% to 2.00% in United States Treasury rates used as the discount rate to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets; and  

   Ÿ    Additional landfill site costs experienced along the East Coast during 2011, which were due to significant rainfall events, including the effects from spring flooding and Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee partially offset by  

   Ÿ    The 2011 recognition of a $9 million favorable revision to an environmental liability at a closed site based on the estimated cost of the remediation as prescribed by the EPA; and  

   Ÿ    The 2010 recognition of $50 million in additional environmental expenses related to four closed sites.  

Other — The comparability of our other costs for the periods presented has been affected by (i) 2012 costs associated with a labor union dispute in the Seattle Area; (ii) increased oil and gas development expense in 2012; and (iii) oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast in 2010.  

Selling, General and Administrative  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor and related benefit costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity-based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees; and (iv) other selling, general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility-related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our “Other” selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $79 million, or 5.1%, and increased $90 million, or 6.2% when comparing 2012 with 2011 and 2011 with 2010, respectively. Our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 10.8% in 2012, 11.6% in 2011 and 11.7% in 2010.  

The most significant items affecting our selling, general and administrative costs during the three-year period ended December 31, 2012 are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    A decrease in incentive compensation, included in labor and related benefits below, of $73 million in 2012;  

   Ÿ    A decrease in non-cash compensation expense, included in labor and related benefits below, attributable to our long-term incentive plan, or LTIP, of $15 million in 2012 and an increase of $10 million in 2011;  

   Ÿ    Consulting costs, included in professional fees below, of $37 million in 2011 during the start-up phase of our Company-wide initiatives focusing on procurement and operational and back-office efficiency. During 2012, these consulting costs decreased $26 million as we completed the start-up phase early in the year; however, this was partially offset by approximately $10 million of additional costs associated with our efforts to implement these initiatives; and  

   Ÿ    An increase in costs, primarily labor, of approximately $34 million and $53 million during 2012 and 2011, respectively, incurred to support our strategic plan to grow into new markets and provide expanded service offerings, including our integration of Oakleaf.  

In addition, in July 2012, we announced a reorganization of our operations, designed to streamline management and staff support and reduce our cost structure, while not disrupting our front-line operations. We have implemented the reorganization and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, we realized labor and related benefits cost savings of $20 million.  

49  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative costs for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other significant changes in our selling, general and administrative expenses are discussed below:  

   Ÿ    Labor and related benefits — In 2011, our labor and related benefits costs increased primarily due to higher salaries and hourly wages due to merit increases.  

   Ÿ    Professional fees — In 2011, we experienced a reduction in legal fees primarily as a result of the settlement in 2010 of a lawsuit related to the abandonment of revenue management software.  

   Ÿ    Provision for bad debts — Our provision for bad debts increased in 2012, primarily as a result of (i) collection issues we are experiencing in our Puerto Rico operations and (ii) billing delays to some of our strategic account customers.  

   Ÿ    Other — In 2012, we experienced decreases in (i) litigation settlement costs and (ii) insurance and claims. These decreases were partially offset by increases in (i) computer and telecommunications costs, due in part to improvements we are making to our information technology systems; and (ii) building and equipment costs, which include rental and utilities. In 2011, we experienced similar increases in our computer costs, as well as increases in litigation loss and settlement costs.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded for capital leases, on a straight-line basis from three to 50 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction and asset retirement costs arising from closure and post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the total estimated remaining capacity of a site, which includes both permitted capacity and expansion capacity that meets our Company-specific criteria for amortization purposes; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units-of-consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event; and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, using either a 150% declining balance approach or a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are generally from two to ten years depending on the type of asset.  

The following table summarizes the components of our depreciation and amortization costs for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

50  

Table of Contents 

The increase in amortization of intangible assets in 2012 and 2011 is primarily related to the amortization of customer relationships acquired through our acquisition of Oakleaf and by our Areas located in the Northern U.S.  

Restructuring  

2012 Restructurings — In July 2012, we announced a reorganization of operations, designed to streamline management and staff support and reduce our cost structure, while not disrupting our front-line operations. Principal organizational changes included removing the management layer of our four geographic Groups, each of which previously constituted a reportable segment, and consolidating and reducing the number of our geographic Areas through which we evaluate and oversee our Solid Waste subsidiaries from 22 to 17. This reorganization eliminated approximately 700 employee positions throughout the Company, including positions at both the management and support level. Voluntary separation arrangements were offered to many in management.  

Additionally, in 2012, we recognized employee severance and benefits restructuring charges associated with the reorganization of Oakleaf discussed below that began in 2011 along with certain other actions taken by the Company in early 2012.  

During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized a total of $67 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $56 million were related to employee severance and benefit costs associated with these reorganizations. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized. We do not expect additional charges related to the 2012 restructurings to be material.  

2011 Restructurings — Beginning in July 2011, we took steps to streamline our organization as part of our cost savings programs. This reorganization eliminated over 700 employee positions throughout the Company, including approximately 300 open positions. Additionally, subsequent to our acquisition of Oakleaf, we incurred charges in connection with restructuring that organization. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized a total of $19 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $18 million were related to employee severance and benefit costs. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

Through December 31, 2012, we have paid approximately $46 million of the employee severance and benefit costs incurred as a result of the combined 2012 and 2011 restructuring efforts.  

(Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items  

The following table summarizes the major components of “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Asset Impairments — During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized impairment charges aggregating $83 million, attributable in large part to $45 million of charges related to three facilities in our medical waste services business as a result of projected operating losses at each of these facilities. We wrote down the carrying values of the facilities’ operating permits and property, plant and equipment to their estimated fair values. Our medical waste services business is included in our “Other” operations in Note 21. We also recognized (i) $20 million of charges related to investments we had made in prior years in waste diversion technologies; (ii) $6 million for the impairment of an oil & gas well due to projected operating losses; (iii) $5 million for the impairment of a facility not currently used in our operations and (iv) $4 million of charges to impair goodwill related to certain of our operations. To determine the appropriate charge for each of these items, we estimated the fair value of the facilities or investments using anticipated future cash flows. These charges are included in our “Other” operations in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

51  

Table of Contents 

During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized impairment charges relating to two facilities in our medical waste services business, in addition to the three facilities impaired in 2012 and discussed above, as a result of the closure of one site and as a result of continuing operating losses at the other site. We wrote down the net book values of the sites to their estimated fair values.  

Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating opportunities associated with the sale or discontinued use of underperforming assets or assets that may no longer meet our strategic objectives. Accordingly, it is possible that additional impairments may be recorded as assets are sold or become held-for-sale.  

Other — We filed a lawsuit in March 2008 related to the revenue management software implementation that was suspended in 2007 and abandoned in 2009. In April 2010, we settled the lawsuit and received a one-time cash payment. The settlement increased our “Income from operations” for the year ended December 31, 2010 by $77 million.  

Income from Operations  

The following table summarizes income from operations for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Solid Waste — The most significant items affecting the results of operations of our Solid Waste business during the three year period ended December 31, 2012 are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    revenue growth from yield on our base business;  

   Ÿ    earnings associated with revenue changes due to volumes declined during 2011 due to the economy, pricing, competition and increased focus on waste reduction and diversion by consumers. Additionally, 2011 volume comparisons with 2010 were unfavorably affected by the 2010 oil spill clean up in the Gulf Coast. For 2012, although volumes decreased in our collection lines of business, there was a slight increase in total volumes attributed in part to (i) an improvement in landfill special waste volumes experienced principally in the eastern and midwestern parts of the country; and (ii) volumes from the Hurricane Sandy cleanup efforts. In addition, our results benefited from the growth of our oilfield services business. These services, which focus principally on the hauling and disposal of drill cuttings and fluids and various well pad services, favorably affected both our landfill and collection lines of business;  

   Ÿ    the accretive benefits of recent acquisitions;  

   Ÿ    market price declines for recyclable commodities during 2012 when compared with 2011, negatively affecting our income from operations. During 2011, income from operations benefited from substantial increases in market prices;  

   Ÿ    restructuring charges recognized during both 2012 and 2011;  

   Ÿ    higher operating costs, including maintenance and repair costs in 2012 and 2011 and transfer and disposal costs in 2012;  

   Ÿ    benefits realized as a result of our restructuring activities;  

   Ÿ    During 2012 and 2011, employees were transferred from Solid Waste to Corporate, favorably impacting income from operations; however, during 2011, annual merit increases for remaining employees more than offset the effect of the transferred employees; and  

   Ÿ    decreased incentive compensation expense during 2012.  

52  

Table of Contents 

Other items affecting the reported periods include:  

2012  

   Ÿ    a charge of $10 million for the withdrawal from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan;  

   Ÿ    $6 million of incremental operating expenses due to a labor union dispute in the Seattle Area;  

   Ÿ    a charge of $5 million for a write-down of idle property to estimated fair value;  

   Ÿ    a $5 million increase in bad debt expense due to collection issues in Puerto Rico;  

2011  

   Ÿ    a charge of $24 million as a result of a litigation loss;  

   Ÿ    higher landfill costs of approximately $14 million for the collection and disposal of leachate, which was largely the result of heavy rainfall in the Eastern U.S.;  

2010  

   Ÿ    a charge of $26 million for the withdrawal from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan; and  

   Ÿ    charges of $23 million related to litigation reserves.  

Significant items affecting the comparability of the remaining components of our results of operations for the years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010 are summarized below:  

Wheelabrator — The significant decrease in income from operations of our Wheelabrator business for the period ended December 31, 2012 as compared to 2011 was largely driven by (i) lower revenues duee to the expiration of long-term contracts at certain of our waste-to-energy facilities; (ii) lower energy pricing at our merchant facilities; (iii) increased maintenance and repair costs, primarily due to differences in the timing and scope of planned maintenance activities; and (iv) increased international development costs.  

The decrease in 2011 income from operations as compared with 2010 was driven largely by (i) lower revenues due to the expiration of a long-term electric power capacity agreement that expired December 31, 2010 and the expiration of other long-term contracts at our waste-to-energy and independent power facilities; and (ii) costs incurred to refurbish a facility acquired in 2010. The impact of these unfavorable items was partially offset by efforts to control costs across each of our facilities.  

Other — Our “Other” income from operations include (i) the effects of those elements of our in-plant services, landfill gas-to-energy operations, and third-party subcontract and administration revenues managed by our Sustainability Services, Organics, Healthcare, Renewable Energy and Strategic Accounts organizations, including Oakleaf, respectively, that are not included with the operations of our reportable segments; (ii) our recycling brokerage and electronic recycling services; and (iii) the impacts of investments that we are making in expanded service offerings, such as portable self-storage and fluorescent lamp recycling, and in oil and gas producing properties. In addition, our “Other” income from operations reflects the impacts of (i) non-operating entities that provide financial assurance and self-insurance support for the Solid Waste business; and (ii) reclasses to prior year to include the costs of our former geographic Group offices that prior to our 2012 restructuring were included in our operating segments.  

Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include:  

   Ÿ    impairment charges of $77 million recognized during 2012, primarily in (i) our medical waste services business, (ii) investments in waste diversion technologies, and (iii) an oil and gas producing property;  

   Ÿ    losses in 2012 and 2011 from our growth initiatives and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Oakleaf;  

   Ÿ    restructuring charges recognized during 2012 and 2011; and  

   Ÿ    decreased incentive compensation expense during 2012.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Corporate and Other — Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include:  

   Ÿ    higher salaries and wages due to the transfer of employees from Solid Waste to Corporate and Other in both 2012 and 2011;  

   Ÿ    decreased incentive compensation expense during 2012;  

   Ÿ    lower non-cash compensation expense attributable to our LTIP during 2012 and higher expense in 2011;  

   Ÿ    restructuring charges recognized during 2012 and 2011;  

   Ÿ    benefits realized as a result of our July 2012 restructuring activities;  

   Ÿ    2012 headcount increases due to our sales and marketing initiatives and initiatives focusing on procurement and operational and back-office efficiency;  

   Ÿ    higher professional fees in 2011 due to consulting services and related fees incurred associated with the startup phase our above-mentioned Company-wide initiatives;  

   Ÿ    a benefit in 2010 of $77 million resulting from a litigation settlement;  

   Ÿ    the recognition of a $9 million favorable adjustment during 2011 and net charges of $50 million during 2010 for estimates associated with environmental remediation liabilities at certain of our closed sites;  

   Ÿ    changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets. As a result of changes in U.S. Treasury rates, we recognized $3 million of unfavorable adjustments during 2012 and $17 million of unfavorable adjustments during 2011; and  

   Ÿ    an increase in 2011 risk management costs, primarily due to increased costs associated with auto and general liability claims and the recognition of a favorable adjustment in 2010 associated with similar claims from prior periods.  

Interest Expense  

Our interest expense was $488 million in 2012, $481 million in 2011 and $473 million in 2010. During the reported periods, our interest expense has increased only slightly in spite of an increase in our debt balances. This is primarily attributable to (i) a decrease in our weighted average borrowing rate that has been achieved by refinancing debt at maturity with debt at much lower fixed interest rates; (ii) the impacts that lower market interest rates have had on the cost of certain of our tax-exempt debt; and (iii) an increase in capitalized interest due primarily to higher capital spending. These decreases in interest expense have been partially offset by a decrease in the benefits provided by active and terminated interest rate swap agreements.  

Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities  

We recognized “Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities” of $46 million in 2012, $31 million in 2011, and $21 million in 2010. These losses are primarily related to our noncontrolling interests in two limited liability companies established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties and a refined coal facility, as well as (i) noncontrolling investments made to support our strategic initiatives and (ii) unconsolidated trusts for final capping, closure, post-closure or environmental obligations. The tax impacts realized as a result of our investments in low-income housing properties and the refined coal facility are discussed below in Provision for Income Taxes. Refer to Notes 9 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these investments. Additionally, in 2012, we recognized a charge of $10 million related to a payment we made under a guarantee on behalf of an unconsolidated entity accounted for under the equity method.  

Other, net  

We recognized other, net expense of $18 million and $4 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, and other, net income of $5 million in 2010. The increase in expense during 2012 was primarily attributable to an impairment charge of $16 million relating to an other-than-temporary decline in the value of an investment accounted for under the cost method. We wrote down the carrying value of our investment to its fair value based on other third-party investors’ recent transactions in these securities, which are considered to be the best evidence of fair value currently available.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Provision for Income Taxes  

We recorded provisions for income taxes of $443 million in 2012, $511 million in 2011 and $629 million in 2010. These tax provisions resulted in an effective income tax rate of approximately 34.0%, 33.6% and 38.5%, for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is primarily affected by (i) variations in our income before income taxes; (ii) the realization of federal and state net operating loss and credit carry-forwards; (iii) changes in effective state and Canadian statutory tax rates; (iv) tax audit settlements; and (v) the impact of federal low-income housing and refined coal tax credits. The impacts of these items are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Federal Net Operating Loss Carry-Forwards – During 2012 we recognized additional federal net operating loss carry-forwards resulting in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $8 million. Refer to the discussion below related to the acquisition of Oakleaf for more information with regard to the realization of Oakleaf net operating losses.  

   Ÿ    State Net Operating Loss and Credit Carry-forwards — During 2012, 2011 and 2010, we utilized state net operating loss and credit carry-forwards resulting in a reduction to our provision for income taxes for those periods of $5 million, $4 million, and $4 million, respectively.  

   Ÿ    State Tax Rate Changes — During 2011, our state deferred income taxes increased by $3 million to reflect the impact of changes in the estimated tax rate at which existing temporary differences will be realized. During 2010, our current state tax rate increased from 6.25% to 6.75% resulting in an increase to our provision for income taxes of $5 million. In addition, our state deferred income taxes increased $37 million to reflect the impact of changes in the estimated tax rate at which existing temporary differences will be realized.  

   Ÿ    Canadian Tax Rate Changes — During 2012 there was an increase of the provincial tax rates in Ontario which resulted in a $5 million tax expense as a result of the revaluation of the related deferred tax balances.  

   Ÿ    Tax Audit Settlements — The settlement of various tax audits resulted in reductions in income tax expense of $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010.  

   Ÿ    Federal Low-income Housing Tax Credits — Our federal low-income housing investment and the resulting credits reduced our provision for income taxes by $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, $38 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our federal low-income housing investment.  

   Ÿ    Refined Coal Investment Tax Credits — Our refined coal facility investment and the resulting credits reduced our provision for income taxes by $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 and $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our refined coal investment.  

On July 28, 2011, we acquired Oakleaf and its primary operations. As a result of the acquisition, we received income tax attributes (primarily federal and state net operating losses) and allocated a portion of the purchase price to these acquired assets. At the time of the acquisition, we fully recognized all of the tax attributes identified by the seller and concluded the realization of these attributes would not affect our overall provision for income taxes. In the third quarter of 2012, as a result of new information, we recognized a tax benefit of approximately $8 million related to additional Oakleaf federal net operating losses received in the acquisition. As this time we do not anticipate the remaining tax attributes, when realized, will affect our overall provision for income taxes. While these attributes are not expected to affect our provision for income taxes, they will have a favorable impact on our cash taxes, although we do not anticipate the impact to be material to our overall cash flow from operations.  

We expect our 2013 recurring effective tax rate will be approximately 35.0% based on expected income levels, projected federal tax credits and other permanent items.  

55  

Table of Contents 

The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law on January 2, 2013 and includes an extension for one year of the 50% bonus depreciation allowance. The provision specifically applies to qualifying property placed in service before January 1, 2014. The acceleration of deductions on 2012 qualifying capital expenditures resulting from the bonus depreciation provision had no impact on our 2012 effective tax rate. However, the ability to accelerate depreciation deductions decreased our 2012 cash taxes by approximately $90 million. Taking the accelerated tax depreciation will result in increased cash taxes in subsequent periods when the deductions for these capital expenditures would have otherwise been taken.  

Noncontrolling Interests  

Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $43 million in 2012, $48 million in 2011 and $49 million in 2010. These amounts are principally related to third parties’ equity interests in two limited liability companies that own three waste-to-energy facilities operated by our Wheelabrator business. Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the consolidation of these variable interest entities.  

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Discussion and Analysis  

We owned or operated 264 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2012 and 266 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the expected remaining capacity, in cubic yards and tonnage of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills, is shown below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2012 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 43 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are seeking expansion permits at 32 of our landfills that meet the expansion criteria outlined in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions section above. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 49 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume.  

56  

Table of Contents 

The number of landfills we own or operate as of December 31, 2012, segregated by their estimated operating lives (in years), based on remaining permitted and expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume, was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Landfills we operate through lease agreements are similar to landfills we own because we own the landfill’s operating permit and will operate the landfill for the entire lease term, which in many cases is the life of the landfill. We are usually responsible for the final capping, closure and post-closure obligations of the landfills we lease.  

 (b) For operating contracts, the property owner owns the permit and we operate the landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the landfill. However, we are generally responsible for final capping, closure and post-closure obligations under the operating contracts.  

The following table reflects landfill capacity and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts reflected here relate to the combined impacts of (i) new expansions pursued; (ii) increases or decreases in the airspace being pursued for ongoing expansion efforts; (iii) adjustments for differences between the airspace being pursued and airspace granted and (iv) decreases due to decisions to no longer pursue expansion permits.  

 (b) We received expansion permits at six of our landfills during 2012 and eight of our landfills during 2011, demonstrating our continued success in working with municipalities and regulatory agencies to expand the disposal capacity of our existing landfills.  

 (c) Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site-specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate; and operating practices. We continually focus on improving the utilization of airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials; and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training.  

57  

Table of Contents 

The tons received at our landfills in 2012 and 2011 are shown below (tons in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In 2012, we acquired one landfill, closed one landfill and our contract expired at one landfill. In addition, we have one landfill that will not be developed.  

 (b) These amounts include 1.3 million tons at December 31, 2012 and 1.4 million tons at December 31, 2011 that were received at our landfills but were used for beneficial purposes and generally were redirected from the permitted airspace to other areas of the landfill. Waste types that are frequently identified for beneficial use include green waste for composting and clean dirt for on-site construction projects.  

When a landfill we own or operate receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, we generally transfer the management of the site, including any remediation activities, to our closed sites management group. As of December 31, 2012, our closed sites management group managed 211 closed landfills.  

Landfill Assets — We capitalize various costs that we incur to prepare a landfill to accept waste. These costs generally include expenditures for land (including the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property), permitting, excavation, liner material and installation, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. The cost basis of our landfill assets also includes estimates of future costs associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities, which are discussed further below.  

The following table reflects the total cost basis of our landfill assets and accumulated landfill airspace amortization as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2012 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As of December 31, 2012, we estimate that we will spend approximately $500 million in 2013, and approximately $900 million in 2014 and 2015 combined, for the construction and development of our landfill assets. The specific timing of landfill capital spending is dependent on future events, and spending estimates are subject to change due to fluctuations in landfill waste volumes, changes in environmental requirements and other factors impacting landfill operations.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Liabilities — As we accept waste at our landfills, we incur significant asset retirement obligations, which include liabilities associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities. These liabilities are accounted for in accordance with authoritative guidance associated with accounting for asset retirement obligations and are discussed in Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have liabilities for the remediation of properties that have incurred environmental damage, which generally was caused by operations or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired operations or a site. We recognize environmental remediation liabilities when we determine that the liability is probable and the estimated cost for the likely remedy can be reasonably estimated.  

The following table reflects our landfill liabilities and our environmental remediation liabilities as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2012 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Landfill Costs and Expenses — As disclosed in the Operating Expenses section above, our landfill operating costs include interest accretion on asset retirement obligations, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs, and other landfill site costs. The following table summarizes these costs for each of the three years indicated (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The comparison of these costs for the reported periods has been significantly affected by accounting for changes in the risk-free discount rate that we use to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation liabilities and environmental remediation recovery assets, which is based on the rate for U.S. Treasury bonds with a term approximating the weighted-average period until settlement of the underlying obligations. Additionally, in 2010, we increased our cost estimates associated with environmental remediation obligations primarily based on a review and evaluation of existing remediation projects. As these remediation projects progressed, more defined plans were developed, resulting in a net increase in remediation expense to reflect the more likely remedies. In both 2012 and 2011, we had favorable revisions to environmental remediation liabilities at closed sites based on the estimated cost of the remediation alternatives prescribed by regulators.  

Amortization of landfill airspace, which is included as a component of “Depreciation and amortization” expense, includes the following:  

   Ÿ    the amortization of landfill capital costs, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) estimated future costs for landfill development and construction required to develop our landfills to their remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and  

59  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    the amortization of asset retirement costs arising from final landfill capping, closure and post-closure obligations, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) projected asset retirement costs.  

Amortization expense is recorded on a units-of-consumption basis, applying cost as a rate per ton. The rate per ton is calculated by dividing each component of the amortizable basis of a landfill by the number of tons needed to fill the corresponding asset’s airspace. Landfill capital costs and closure and post-closure asset retirement costs are generally incurred to support the operation of the landfill over its entire operating life and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using a landfill’s total airspace capacity. Final capping asset retirement costs are related to a specific final capping event and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using each discrete final capping event’s estimated airspace capacity. Accordingly, each landfill has multiple per-ton amortization rates.  

The following table presents our landfill airspace amortization expense on a per-ton basis:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Different per-ton amortization rates are applied at each of our 269 landfills, and per-ton amortization rates vary significantly from one landfill to another due to (i) inconsistencies that often exist in construction costs and provincial, state and local regulatory requirements for landfill development and landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities; and (ii) differences in the cost basis of landfills that we develop versus those that we acquire. Accordingly, our landfill airspace amortization expense measured on a per-ton basis can fluctuate due to changes in the mix of volumes we receive across the Company year-over-year. The comparability of our total Company average landfill airspace amortization expense per ton for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 has also been affected by (i) increased landfill development and environmental costs; and (ii) the recognition of reductions to amortization expense for changes in our estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. Landfill amortization expense was reduced by $3 million in 2012, $11 million in 2011 and $13 million in 2010, for the effects of these changes in estimates. In each year, the majority of the reduced expense resulted from revisions in the estimated timing or cost of final capping events that were generally the result of (i) concerted efforts to improve the operating efficiencies of our landfills and volume declines, both of which have allowed us to delay spending for final capping activities; (ii) effectively managing the cost of final capping material and construction; or (iii) landfill expansions that resulted in reduced or deferred final capping costs.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet and landfill equipment; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at waste-to-energy and materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) final capping, closure and post-closure activities at our landfills; (vi) the repayment of debt and discharging of other obligations; and (vii) capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments in support of our strategic growth plans. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through dividend payments, and we have also returned value to shareholders through share repurchases.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations  

The following is a summary of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cash and cash equivalents — Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit and money market funds that invest in U.S. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. Our cash and cash equivalents have decreased as a result of the execution of our strategic growth plans, which has increased our level of capital spending, acquisitions and investments.  

Restricted trust and escrow accounts — Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist primarily of funds deposited for purposes of settling landfill final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations. These balances are primarily included within long-term “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Debt — We use long-term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax-exempt bonds to borrow on a long-term basis, but we also use other instruments and facilities when appropriate. The components of our long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2012 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012 were primarily attributable to (i) net debt borrowings of $122 million and (ii) the impacts of accounting for other non-cash changes in our debt balances due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps, foreign currency translation, interest accretion and capital leases.  

As of December 31, 2012, we had (i) $688 million of debt maturing within twelve months, including $400 million of borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility, U.S.$75 million of advances outstanding under our Canadian credit facility, $161 million of tax-exempt bonds and (ii) $475 million of tax-exempt borrowings subject to repricing within the next twelve months. Based on our intent and ability to refinance a portion of this debt on a long-term basis as of December 31, 2012, we have classified $420 million of this debt as long-term and the remaining $743 million as current obligations.  

61  

Table of Contents 

We have credit facilities in place to support our liquidity and financial assurance needs. The following table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit (in millions) at December 31, categorized by type of facility:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In May 2011, we amended and restated our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility as a result of changes in market conditions, which significantly reduced the cost of the facility. We also extended the term through May 2016. At December 31, 2012, we had $400 million of outstanding borrowings and $933 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $667 million.  

 (b) As of December 31, 2012, we had an aggregate committed capacity of $505 million under letter of credit facilities with terms that extend from June 2013 to June 2015. As of December 31, 2012, no borrowings were outstanding under these letter of credit facilities, and we had $13 million of unused or available credit capacity.  

 (c) These letters of credit are outstanding under various arrangements that do not obligate the counterparty to provide a committed capacity.  

Summary of Cash Flow Activity  

The following is a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows in 2012 as compared with 2011 are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Decrease in earnings — Our income from operations, excluding depreciation and amortization, decreased by $109 million, on a year-over-year basis. Included in the $109 million decrease are the following items:  

   Ÿ    higher charges in 2012 related to impairments and restructuring costs of $89 million and $48 million, respectively;  

   Ÿ    lower non-cash charges attributable to equity-based compensation expense and interest accretion and discount rate adjustments on environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets of $16 million and $17 million, respectively; and  

   Ÿ    lower bonus expense of approximately $90 million in 2012 when compared with 2011.  

   Ÿ    Increased income tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, was approximately $63 million higher on a year-over-year basis as a result of the decrease in the bonus depreciation allowance from a deduction of 100% of qualifying capital expenditures for property placed in service in 2011 to a deduction of 50% of qualifying capital expenditures for property placed in service in 2012. See Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items below for additional information.  

   Ÿ    Forward starting swaps  — During the first quarter of 2011 and the third quarter of 2012, the forward-starting interest rate swaps associated with anticipated fixed-rate debt issuances were terminated  

62  

Table of Contents 

     contemporaneously with the actual issuance of senior notes in February 2011 and September 2012, and we paid cash of $9 million and $59 million, respectively, to settle the liabilities related to these swap agreements. These cash payments have been classified as a change in “Accounts payable and accrued liabilities” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   Ÿ    Termination of interest rate swaps — In April 2012, we elected to terminate our $1 billion interest rate swap portfolio associated with senior notes that were scheduled to mature from November 2012 through March 2018. Upon termination of the swaps, we received $72 million in cash for their fair value. The cash proceeds received from the termination of interest rate swap agreements have been classified as a change in “Other assets” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   Ÿ    Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was unfavorably impacted in 2012 by changes in our working capital accounts. Although our working capital changes may vary from year to year, they are typically driven by changes in accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable changes, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments.  

The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows for 2011 and 2010 are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Decreased income tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits, was approximately $242 million lower in 2011 due in large part to the extension of the bonus depreciation legislation. The ability to accelerate depreciation deductions decreased our full year 2011 cash taxes by approximately $175 million. Also contributing to the decrease in cash paid for taxes in 2011 was an increase in federal tax credits provided by our investments in two unconsolidated entities. These investments are discussed in Note 9 and Note 20 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

   Ÿ    2010 Non-recurring cash inflows — Two significant cash transactions benefited cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010. In the second quarter of 2010, we received $77 million for a litigation settlement, and in the third quarter of 2010, we received a $65 million federal tax refund related to the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary in 2009.  

   Ÿ    Settlement of Canadian hedge — In December 2010, our previously existing foreign currency hedges matured and we paid cash of $37 million upon settlement. The cash payment from the settlement was classified as a change in accrued liabilities within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   Ÿ    Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was favorably impacted in 2011 by changes in our working capital accounts. Although our working capital changes may vary from year to year, they are typically driven by changes in accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable changes, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments.  

Net Cash Used in Investing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Capital expenditures — We used $1,510 million during 2012 for capital expenditures, compared with $1,324 million in 2011 and $1,104 million in 2010. The increase in capital expenditures in 2012 and 2011 is a result of our increased spending on compressed natural gas vehicles, related fueling infrastructure, and information technology infrastructure and growth initiatives, as well as our taking advantage of the bonus depreciation legislation. The year-over-year comparison of 2012 with 2011 was also affected by timing differences associated with cash payments for the previous years’ fourth quarter capital spending. Approximately $244 million of our fourth quarter 2011 spending was paid in cash in the first quarter of 2012 compared with approximately $206 million of our fourth quarter 2010 spending that was paid in the first quarter of 2011.  

63  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    Acquisitions — Our spending on acquisitions was $250 million in 2012 compared with $867 million in 2011 and $407 million in 2010. In 2012, our acquisitions consisted primarily of interests in oil and gas producing properties acquired through two transactions, for which we paid $94 million. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our acquisitions. In 2011, we paid $432 million, net of cash received of $4 million and inclusive of certain adjustments, to acquire Oakleaf, which provides outsourced waste and recycling services. In 2010, we paid approximately $150 million to acquire a waste-to-energy facility in Portsmouth, Virginia. We continue to focus on accretive acquisitions and growth opportunities that will enhance and expand our existing service offerings.  

   Ÿ    Investments in unconsolidated entities — We made $77 million of cash investments in unconsolidated entities during 2012 primarily related to furthering our goal of expanding our service offerings and developing waste diversion technologies.  

We made $155 million of cash investments in unconsolidated entities during 2011. These investments included a $48 million payment made to acquire a noncontrolling interest in a limited liability company, which was established to invest in and manage a refined coal facility in North Dakota, and $107 million of investments primarily related to furthering our goal of growing into new markets by investing in greener technologies.  

We made $173 million of cash investments in unconsolidated entities during 2010. These cash investments were primarily related to a $142 million payment made to acquire a 40% equity investment in SEG, a subsidiary of Shanghai Chengtou Holding Co., Ltd. As a joint venture partner in SEG, we participate in the operation and management of waste-to-energy and other waste services in the Chinese market. SEG’s focus also includes building new waste-to-energy facilities in China.  

   Ÿ    Net receipts from restricted funds — Net cash received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts, which are largely generated from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds for our capital needs, contributed $14 million to our investing activities in 2012 compared with $107 million in 2011 and $48 million in 2010. The significant decrease in cash received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts during 2012 and 2010 was due to a decrease in tax-exempt borrowings.  

   Ÿ    Other — Net cash used by our other investing activities of $51 million during 2012 was primarily associated with the funding of notes receivable associated with our Wheelabrator’s investments in Europe. Net cash provided by our other investing activities of $18 million during 2011 was primarily related to the receipt of a payment of $17 million associated with a note receivable from a prior year divestiture.  

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    Share repurchases and dividend payments — For the periods presented, all share repurchases and dividend payments have been approved by our Board of Directors.  

We paid an aggregate of $658 million in cash dividends during 2012, compared with $637 million in 2011 and $604 million in 2010. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.315 in 2010, to $0.34 in 2011, and to $0.355 in 2012 and has been offset, in part, by a reduction in our common stock outstanding during 2010 and 2011 as a result of our share repurchase programs.  

We paid $575 million for share repurchases in 2011 compared with $501 million in 2010. We repurchased approximately 17 million and 15 million shares of our common stock in 2011 and 2010, respectively. We did not repurchase any shares during 2012.  

In December 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors expects to increase the quarterly dividend from $0.355 to $0.365 per share for dividends declared in 2013. However, all future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors, and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future business plans and other factors the Board of Directors may deem relevant. Additionally, the Board of Directors authorized up to $500 million in share repurchases in  

64  

Table of Contents 

 connection with the 2013 financial plan. Any future share repurchases will be made at the discretion of management and will depend on factors similar to those considered by the Board of Directors in making dividend declarations.  

   Ÿ    Proceeds from the exercise of common stock options — The exercise of common stock options and the related excess tax benefits generated a total of $43 million of financing cash inflows during 2012 compared with $45 million during 2011 and $54 million during 2010.  

   Ÿ    Net debt borrowings (repayments) — Net debt borrowings were $122 million and $698 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, and net debt repayments were $204 million in 2010. The following summarizes our cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Due to the short-term maturities of the borrowings under these credit facilities, we have reported certain of these cash flows on a net basis.  

During 2012, we did not have any significant non-cash activities. For the year ended December 31, 2011, non-cash activities included proceeds from tax-exempt borrowings, net of principal payments made directly from trust funds, of $100 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we did not have any tax-exempt bond financings; however, we did have a $215 million non-cash increase in our debt obligations as a result of the issuance of a note payable in return for a noncontrolling interest in a limited liability company established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties. This investment is discussed in detail in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

   Ÿ    Other —Net cash used in other financing activities was $2 million and $46 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, while net cash provided by other financing activities was $18 million in 2010. These activities are primarily attributable to changes in our accrued liabilities for checks written in excess of cash balances due to the timing of cash deposits or payments. During 2011, the cash used for these activities included $7 million of financing costs paid in May to amend and restate our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility. The cash provided by changes in our accrued liabilities for checks written in excess of cash balances in 2010 was offset, in part, by $13 million of financing costs paid in June to initially execute our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility.  

65  

Table of Contents 

Summary of Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2012 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities for final capping, closure and post-closure will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills.  

 (b) The amounts reported here represent the scheduled principal payments related to our long-term debt, excluding related interest. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding interest rates.  

 (c) Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2012 include $475 million of tax-exempt bonds subject to re-pricing within the next twelve months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re-offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowing for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2012, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 (d) Our recorded debt obligations include non-cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods.  

 (e) Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

 (f) Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For contracts that require us to purchase minimum quantities of goods or services, we have estimated our future minimum obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. Accordingly, the amounts reported in the table are not necessarily indicative of our actual cash flow obligations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations.  

66  

Table of Contents 

Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items  

Recent Legislation — The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law on January 2, 2013 and included an extension for one year of the 50% bonus depreciation allowance. The provision specifically applies to qualifying property placed in service before January 1, 2014. The acceleration of deductions on capital expenditures resulting from the bonus depreciation provisions has no impact on our effective tax rate, but reduces our cash taxes in the periods in which the deductions are taken.  

The acceleration of depreciation deductions related to qualifying property additions in 2012 decreased our full year 2012 cash taxes by approximately $90 million and, based on our current forecast of 2013 capital expenditures, we estimate an additional reduction in our full year 2013 cash taxes of approximately $90 million related to qualifying property additions in 2013. However, taking accelerated deductions results in increased cash taxes in subsequent periods when the deductions for these capital expenditures would have otherwise been taken. On a net basis, after taking into account the effect of all applicable years’ bonus depreciation programs, the deductions taken in previous years from acceleration programs more than offset the benefits received in 2012 and expected to be received in 2013. Our full year tax payments were approximately $60 million higher in 2012 compared with 2011.  

Uncertain Tax Positions — We have liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of long-term “Other liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next twelve months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. We anticipate that approximately $14 million of liabilities for uncertain tax positions, including accrued interest, and $3 million of related deferred tax assets may be reversed within the next twelve months. The anticipated reversals are related to state tax items, none of which are material, and are expected to result from audit settlements or the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations period. In addition, there are federal items related to the tax implications of the book impairments discussed in Note 13 that also are anticipated to reverse within the next 12 months.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We have financial interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities as discussed in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2012, nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

Inflation  

While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of diesel fuel, have affected our operating margins in recent years, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, as of December 31, 2012, over 20% of our collection revenues are generated under long-term agreements with price adjustments based on various indices intended to measure inflation. Additionally, management’s estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.