Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, Canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. From time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. Our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount. As of December 31, 2012, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures. We are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. However, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties.  

67  

Table of Contents 

Interest Rate Exposure — Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities, although our interest costs can also be significantly affected by our on-going financial assurance needs, which are discussed in the Financial Assurance and Insurance Obligations section of Item 1.  

As of December 31, 2012, we had $9.9 billion of long-term debt when excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to interest rate derivatives, discounts and premiums. The effective interest rates of approximately $1.5 billion of our outstanding debt obligations are subject to change during 2013. The most significant components of our variable-rate debt obligations are (i) $587 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (ii) $475 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within twelve months; (iii) $400 million of borrowings outstanding under our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility; and (iv) U.S.$75 million of outstanding advances under our Canadian Credit Facility. We currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2013 interest expense by approximately $13 million. As of December 31, 2011, the effective interest rates of approximately $2.2 billion of our outstanding debt obligations were subject to change within twelve months.  

Our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our “fixed-rate” tax exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds twelve months. In addition, at December 31, 2012, we had forward-starting interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $175 million. The fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations and various interest rate derivative instruments can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change.  

We have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive derivatives and related positions. These analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. An instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate derivative positions by approximately $800 million at December 31, 2012.  

We are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have significant cash and cash equivalent balances as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. These assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in U.S. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. Because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant.  

Commodity Price Exposure — In the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. With the exception of electricity commodity derivatives, which are discussed below, we generally have not entered into derivatives to hedge the risks associated with changes in the market prices of these commodities during the three years ended December 31, 2012. Alternatively, we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. Accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues also increase or decrease.  

During 2012, approximately 56% of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates, and we currently expect that nearly 56% of our electricity revenues at our waste-to-energy facilities will be at market rates by the end of 2013. Our exposure to variability associated with changes in market prices for electricity has increased over the last few years as long-term power purchase agreements have expired. The energy markets have changed significantly since the expiring contracts were executed and we have found that the current market structure does not support medium- and long-term electricity contracts. As we renegotiate our power-purchase agreements, we expect that a more substantial portion of our energy sales at our waste-to-energy facilities will be based on variable market rates. Accordingly, in 2010, we implemented a more actively managed energy program, which includes a hedging strategy intended to decrease the exposure of our revenues to volatility due to market prices for electricity. Refer to Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our electricity commodity derivatives.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Currency Rate Exposure — We have operations in Canada and investments in China and the United Kingdom. From time to time, we use currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany Canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. Our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. In addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the Company. Refer to Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency derivatives. The foreign currency exposure associated with our investments in China and the United Kingdom has not been material.  

69  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.