PART I  

 Item 1. Business.   

General  

The financial statements presented in this report represent the consolidation of Waste Management, Inc., a Delaware corporation; Waste Management’s wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries; and certain variable interest entities for which Waste Management or its subsidiaries are the primary beneficiary as described in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Waste Management is a holding company and all operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. When the terms “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” are used in this document, those terms refer to Waste Management, Inc., its consolidated subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities. When we use the term “WM,” we are referring only to Waste Management, Inc., the parent holding company.  

WM was incorporated in Oklahoma in 1987 under the name “USA Waste Services, Inc.” and was reincorporated as a Delaware company in 1995. In a 1998 merger, the Illinois-based waste services company formerly known as Waste Management, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of WM and changed its name to Waste Management Holdings, Inc. (“WM Holdings”). At the same time, our parent holding company changed its name from USA Waste Services to Waste Management, Inc. Like WM, WM Holdings is a holding company and all operations are conducted by subsidiaries. For detail on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of WM, WM Holdings and their subsidiaries, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Our principal executive offices are located at 1001 Fannin Street, Suite 4000, Houston, Texas 77002. Our telephone number at that address is (713) 512-6200. Our website address is www.wm.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K are all available, free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after we file the reports with the SEC. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “WM.”  

We are the leading provider of comprehensive waste management services in North America, including collection, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and disposal services for residential, commercial, industrial and municipal customers (our “Solid Waste business” or “Solid Waste”). Our Solid Waste business is operated and managed locally by our subsidiaries throughout North America that focus on distinct geographical areas. We are also a leading developer, operator and owner of waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities in the United States. During 2012, our largest customer represented approximately 1% of annual revenues. We employed approximately 43,500 people as of December 31, 2012.  

We own or operate 269 landfill sites, which is the largest network of landfills in our industry. In order to make disposal more practical for larger urban markets, where the distance to landfills or waste-to-energy facilities is typically farther, we manage 297 transfer stations that consolidate, compact and transport waste efficiently and economically. We also use waste to create energy. One method involves recovering the gas produced naturally as waste decomposes in landfills and using the gas in generators to make electricity. Our subsidiary, Wheelabrator Technologies, Inc., also uses waste to create energy by operating 22 highly efficient waste combustion plants that produce clean, renewable energy. We are a leading recycler in North America, handling materials that include paper, cardboard, glass, plastic, metal and electronics. We provide cost-efficient, environmentally sound recycling programs for municipalities, businesses and households across the U.S. and Canada. In addition to traditional waste operations, we are also expanding to increase the service offerings we provide for our customers.  

Our Company’s goals are targeted at serving our customers, our employees, the environment, the communities in which we work and our stockholders, and achievement of our goals is intended to meet the needs of a changing industry. The waste industry continues to undergo significant changes. Our Company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. Landfill volumes have declined in recent years, as customers are increasingly using alternatives to traditional disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the waste they generate. Accomplishment of our goals will grow our Company and allow us to meet the needs of our customers and communities as they, too, Think Green®. We believe that helping our customers achieve their environmental goals will enable us to achieve profitable growth.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Our Company is dedicated to three transformational goals that we believe will drive continued growth and leadership in a dynamic industry: know more about our customers and how to service them than anyone else; use conversion and processing technology to extract more value from the materials we manage; and continuously improve our operational efficiency. We intend to pursue achievement of our long-term goals in the short-term through efforts to:  

   Ÿ    Grow our markets by implementing customer-focused growth, through customer segmentation and through strategic acquisitions, while maintaining our pricing discipline and increasing the amount of recyclable materials we manage each year;  

   Ÿ    Grow our customer loyalty;  

   Ÿ    Grow into new markets by investing in greener technologies; and  

   Ÿ    Pursue initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure.  

These efforts will be supported by ongoing improvements in information technologies. We believe that execution of our strategy will provide long-term value to our stockholders. In addition, we intend to continue to return value to our stockholders through dividend payments, and our Board of Directors has given management authority to make common stock repurchases. In December 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors expects to increase the quarterly dividend from $0.355 to $0.365 per share for dividends declared in 2013, which is a 2.8% increase from the quarterly dividends we declared in 2012. This will result in an increase in the amount of free cash flow that we expect to pay out as dividends for the tenth consecutive year and is an indication of our ability to generate strong and consistent cash flows. All quarterly dividends will be declared at the discretion of our Board of Directors.  

Operations  

General  

Through the third quarter of 2012, the operations of our local subsidiaries were primarily organized under our Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western and Wheelabrator operating Groups. In July 2012, we announced a reorganization of our operations, designed to streamline management and staff support and reduce our cost structure, while not disrupting our front-line operations. Principal organizational changes included removing the management layer of our four geographic Groups, each of which previously constituted a reportable segment, and consolidating and reducing the number of our geographic Areas from 22 to 17.  

Following our reorganization, our senior management now evaluates, oversees and manages the financial performance of our local Solid Waste business subsidiaries through these 17 Areas. See Notes 12 and 21 to the Consolidated Financials Statements for additional information related to this reorganization and our reportable segments, respectively. Our Wheelabrator business manages waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production plants. We also provide additional services that are not managed through our Solid Waste or Wheelabrator businesses, as described below. These operations are presented in this report as “Other.”  

4  

Table of Contents 

The table below shows the total revenues (in millions) contributed annually by our Solid Waste and Wheelabrator businesses, in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012. More information about our results of operations is included in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in this report.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The services we provide include collection, landfill (solid and hazardous waste landfills), transfer, operation of waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production plants, recycling and resource recovery and other services, as described below. The following table shows revenues (in millions) contributed by these services for each of the three years indicated:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Collection. Our commitment to customers begins with a vast waste collection network. Collection involves picking up and transporting waste and recyclable materials from where it was generated to a transfer station, material recovery facility (“MRF”) or disposal site. We generally provide collection services under one of two types of arrangements:  

   Ÿ    For commercial and industrial collection services, typically we have a three-year service agreement. The fees under the agreements are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment we furnish, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility, labor costs, cost of disposal and general market factors. As part of the service, we provide steel containers to most customers to store their solid waste between pick-up dates. Containers vary in size and type according to the needs of our customers and the restrictions of their communities. Many are designed to be lifted mechanically and either emptied into a truck’s compaction hopper or directly into a disposal site. By using these containers, we can service most of our commercial and industrial customers with trucks operated by only one employee.  

   Ÿ    For most residential collection services, we have a contract with, or a franchise granted by, a municipality, homeowners’ association or some other regional authority that gives us the exclusive right to service all or a portion of the homes in an area. These contracts or franchises are typically for periods of three to six years. We also provide services under individual monthly subscriptions directly to households. The fees for residential collection are either paid by the municipality or authority from their tax revenues or service charges, or are paid directly by the residents receiving the service.  

Landfill. Landfills are the main depositories for solid waste in North America. At December 31, 2012, we owned or operated 264 solid waste landfills, which represents the largest network of landfills in North America. Solid waste landfills are constructed and operated on land with engineering safeguards that limit the possibility of  

5  

Table of Contents 

 water and air pollution, and are operated under procedures prescribed by regulation. A landfill must meet federal, state or provincial, and local regulations during its design, construction, operation and closure. The operation and closure activities of a solid waste landfill include excavation, construction of liners, continuous spreading and compacting of waste, covering of waste with earth or other acceptable material and constructing final capping of the landfill. These operations are carefully planned to maintain environmentally safe conditions and to maximize the use of the airspace.  

All solid waste management companies must have access to a disposal facility, such as a solid waste landfill. The significant capital requirements of developing and operating a landfill serve as a barrier to landfill ownership and, as a result, third-party haulers often dispose of waste at our landfills. It is usually preferable for our collection operations to use disposal facilities that we own or operate, a practice we refer to as internalization, rather than using third-party disposal facilities. Internalization generally allows us to realize higher consolidated margins and stronger operating cash flows. The fees charged at disposal facilities, which are referred to as tipping fees, are based on several factors, including competition and the type and weight or volume of solid waste deposited.  

We also operate five secure hazardous waste landfills in the United States. Under environmental laws, the federal government (or states with delegated authority) must issue permits for all hazardous waste landfills. All of our hazardous waste landfills have obtained the required permits, although some can accept only certain types of hazardous waste. These landfills must also comply with specialized operating standards. Only hazardous waste in a stable, solid form, which meets regulatory requirements, can be deposited in our secure disposal cells. In some cases, hazardous waste can be treated before disposal. Generally, these treatments involve the separation or removal of solid materials from liquids and chemical treatments that transform waste into inert materials that are no longer hazardous. Our hazardous waste landfills are sited, constructed and operated in a manner designed to provide long-term containment of waste. We also operate a hazardous waste facility at which we isolate treated hazardous waste in liquid form by injection into deep wells that have been drilled in certain acceptable geologic formations far below the base of fresh water to a point that is safely separated by other substantial geological confining layers.  

Transfer. At December 31, 2012, we owned or operated 297 transfer stations in North America. We deposit waste at these stations, as do other waste haulers. The solid waste is then consolidated and compacted to reduce the volume and increase the density of the waste and transported by transfer trucks or by rail to disposal sites. At December 31, 2012, our medical waste services business (discussed below) also had 13 smaller transfer operations (separate from its 10 processing facilities, but some of which are located at other existing Company facilities) that are permitted to consolidate regulated medical waste collections for disposal.  

Access to transfer stations is critical to haulers who collect waste in areas not in close proximity to disposal facilities. Fees charged to third parties at transfer stations are usually based on the type and volume or weight of the waste deposited at the transfer station, the distance to the disposal site and general market factors.  

The utilization of our transfer stations by our own collection operations improves internalization by allowing us to retain fees that we would otherwise pay to third parties for the disposal of the waste we collect. It enables us to manage costs associated with waste disposal because (i) transfer trucks, railcars or rail containers have larger capacities than collection trucks, allowing us to deliver more waste to the disposal facility in each trip; (ii) waste is accumulated and compacted at transfer stations that are strategically located to increase the efficiency of our network of operations; and (iii) we can retain the volume by managing the transfer of the waste to one of our own disposal sites.  

The transfer stations that we operate but do not own generally are operated through lease agreements under which we lease property from third parties. There are some instances where transfer stations are operated under contract, generally for municipalities. In most cases we own the permits and will be responsible for any regulatory requirements relating to the operation and closure of the transfer station.  

Wheelabrator. As of December 31, 2012, we owned or operated 17 waste-to-energy facilities and five independent power production plants, or IPPs, which are located in the Northeast, in the Mid-Atlantic, and in Florida, California and Washington.  

6  

Table of Contents 

At our waste-to-energy facilities, solid waste is burned at high temperatures in specially designed boilers to produce heat that is converted into high-pressure steam. As of December 31, 2012, our waste-to-energy facilities were capable of processing up to 22,300 tons of solid waste each day. In 2012, our waste-to-energy facilities received and processed 8 million tons of solid waste, or approximately 21,700 tons per day.  

Our IPPs convert various waste and conventional fuels into steam. The plants burn wood waste, anthracite coal waste (culm), tires, landfill gas and natural gas. These facilities are integral to the solid waste industry, disposing of urban wood, waste tires, railroad ties and utility poles. Our anthracite culm facility in Pennsylvania processes the waste materials left over from coal mining operations from over half a century ago. Ash remaining after burning the culm is used to reclaim the land damaged by decades of coal mining.  

We generate steam at our waste-to-energy and IPPs facilities for the production of electricity. We sell the electricity produced at our facilities into wholesale markets, which include investor-owned utilities, power marketers and regional power pools. Some of our facilities also sell steam directly to end users. Fees charged for electricity and steam at our waste-to-energy facilities and IPPs have generally been subject to the terms and conditions of long-term contracts that include interim adjustments to the prices charged for changes in market conditions such as inflation, electricity prices and other general market factors. During 2012 and 2010, several of our long-term energy contracts and short-term pricing arrangements expired, significantly increasing our waste-to-energy revenues’ exposure to volatility attributable to changes in market prices for electricity, which generally correlate with fluctuations in natural gas prices in the markets in which we operate. Our market-price volatility will continue to increase as additional long-term contracts expire. We use “receive fixed, pay variable” electricity commodity swaps to mitigate the variability in our revenues and cash flows caused by fluctuations in the market prices for electricity. Refer to the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk section of this report for additional information about the Company’s current considerations related to the management of this market exposure.  

We continue to look at opportunities to expand our waste-to-energy business. In the first quarter of 2012, we formed a U.K. joint venture, together with a commercial waste management company, to develop, construct, operate and maintain a waste-to-energy and recycling facility in England. In connection with this investment, we are committed to provide funding up to £57 million, or $93 million based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2012, to be used for the development and construction of the facility. Additional information related to this investment is included in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, in the second quarter of 2012, we invested in another U.K. joint venture, together with an electric utility company, to develop a waste-to-energy and recycling facility in England. In connection with this investment, we are committed to provide funding up to £156 million, or $253 million based upon the exchange rates at December 31, 2012, to be used for the development and construction of the facility.  

In 2010, we made two investments which increased the total assets of our Wheelabrator business by $318 million. In the first quarter of 2010, we paid $142 million to acquire a 40% equity investment in Shanghai Environment Group (“SEG”), a subsidiary of Shanghai Chengtou Holding Co., Ltd. As a joint venture partner in SEG, we participate in the operation and management of waste-to-energy and other waste services in the Chinese market. SEG is also focused on building new waste-to-energy facilities in China. As of December 31, 2012, SEG owned and operated three waste-to-energy facilities and five transfer stations. An additional five waste-to-energy facilities are under construction. Our share of SEG’s earnings are included in “Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities” in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. In the second quarter of 2010, we paid $150 million for the acquisition of a waste-to-energy facility in Portsmouth, Virginia. Wheelabrator is actively pursuing additional development projects with industry partners and other opportunities to provide waste-to-energy services in Europe and Asia.  

Recycling. Our recycling operations provide communities and businesses with an alternative to traditional landfill disposal and support our strategic goals to extract more value from the materials we manage. In 2001, we became the first major solid waste company to focus on residential single-stream recycling, which allows customers to mix recyclable paper, plastic and glass in one bin. Residential single-stream programs have greatly increased the recycling rates. Single-stream recycling is possible through the use of various mechanized screens and optical sorting technologies. We have also been advancing the single-stream recycling programs for  

7  

Table of Contents 

 commercial applications. Recycling involves the separation of reusable materials from the waste stream for processing and resale or other disposition. Our recycling operations include the following:  

Materials processing — Through our collection operations, we collect recyclable materials from residential, commercial and industrial customers and direct these materials to one of our MRFs for processing. We operate 114 MRFs where paper, cardboard, metals, plastics, glass, construction and demolition materials and other recyclable commodities are recovered for resale. We also operate 12 secondary processing facilities where recyclable materials can be further processed into raw products used in the manufacturing of consumer goods. Materials processing services include data destruction and automated color sorting.  

Plastics materials recycling — Using state-of-the-art sorting and processing technology, we process, inventory and sell plastic commodities making the recycling of such items more cost effective and convenient.  

Commodities recycling — We market and resell recyclable commodities to customers world-wide. We manage the marketing of recyclable commodities that are processed in our facilities by maintaining comprehensive service centers that continuously analyze market prices, logistics, market demands and product quality.  

Fees for recycling services are influenced by the type of recyclable commodities being processed, the volume or weight of the recyclable material, degree of processing required, the market value of the recovered material and other market factors.  

Some of the recyclable materials processed in our MRFs are purchased from various sources, including third parties and our own operations. The cost per ton of material purchased is based on market prices and the cost to transport the processed goods to our customers to whom we sell such materials. The price we pay for recyclable materials is often referred to as a “rebate.” Rebates generally are based upon the price we receive for sales of processed goods and on market conditions, but in some cases are based on fixed contractual rates or on defined minimum per-ton rates. As a result, changes in commodity prices for recycled fiber can significantly affect our revenues, the rebates we pay to our suppliers and our operating income and margins.  

Other. Other services we provide include the following:  

We provide recycling brokerage services, which involves managing the marketing of recyclable materials for third parties. The experience of our recycling operations in managing recyclable commodities for our own operations gives us the expertise needed to effectively manage volumes for third parties. Utilizing the resources and knowledge of our recycling operations’ service centers, we can assist customers in marketing and selling their recyclable commodities with little to no capital requirements. We also provide electronics recycling. We recycle discarded computers, communications equipment, and other electronic equipment. Services include the collection, sorting and disassembling of electronics in an effort to reuse or recycle all collected materials. In recent years, we have teamed with major electronics manufacturers to offer comprehensive “take-back” programs of their products to assist the general public in disposing of their old electronics in a convenient and environmentally safe manner.  

Our WM Sustainability Services organization offers our customers in all Areas a variety of services in collaboration with our Areas and strategic accounts program, including (i) in-plant services, where our employees work full-time inside our customers’ facilities to provide full-service waste management solutions and consulting services; (ii) specialized disposal services for oilfield drilling and operations; and (iii) services associated with the disposal of fly ash, residue generated from the combustion of coal and other fuel stocks. Our vertically integrated waste management operations enable us to provide customers with full management of their waste. The breadth of our service offerings and the familiarity we have with waste management practices gives us the unique ability to assist customers in minimizing the amount of waste they generate, identifying recycling opportunities and determining the most efficient means available for waste collection and disposal.  

We develop, operate and promote projects for the beneficial use of landfill gas through our WM Renewable Energy Program. Landfill gas is produced naturally as waste decomposes in a landfill. The methane component of the landfill gas is a readily available, renewable energy source that can be gathered and used beneficially as an  

8  

Table of Contents 

 alternative to fossil fuel. The EPA endorses landfill gas as a renewable energy resource, in the same category as wind, solar and geothermal resources. At December 31, 2012, landfill gas beneficial use projects were producing commercial quantities of methane gas at 137 of our solid waste landfills. At 109 of these landfills, the processed gas is used to fuel electricity generators. The electricity is then sold to public utilities, municipal utilities or power cooperatives. At 17 landfills, the gas is used at the landfill or delivered by pipeline to industrial customers as a direct substitute for fossil fuels in industrial processes. At 10 landfills, the landfill gas is processed to pipeline-quality natural gas and then sold to natural gas suppliers. At one landfill, the gas is processed into liquefied natural gas and used as vehicle fuel.  

Although many waste management services such as collection and disposal are local services, our strategic accounts program works with customers whose locations span the United States. Our strategic accounts program provides centralized customer service, billing and management of accounts to streamline the administration of customers’ multiple and nationwide locations’ waste management needs. In 2011, we acquired Oakleaf Global Holdings and its primary operations (“Oakleaf”), which provides outsourced waste and recycling services through a nationwide network of third-party haulers. Oakleaf has increased our strategic accounts customer base and enhanced our ability to provide comprehensive environmental solutions.  

We also offer integrated medical waste services for healthcare facilities, pharmacies and individuals. We provide full-service solutions to facilities to assist them in best practices, identifying waste streams and proper disposal.  

We continue to invest in businesses and technologies that are designed to offer services and solutions ancillary or supplementary to our current operations. These investments include joint ventures, acquisitions and partial ownership interests. The solutions and services include the collection of project waste, including construction debris and household or yard waste, through our Bagster® program; the development, operation and marketing of plasma gasification facilities; operation of a landfill gas-to-liquid natural gas plant; solar powered trash compactors; and organic waste-to-fuel conversion technology. Part of our expansion of services includes offering portable self-storage services; fluorescent bulb and universal waste mail-back through our LampTracker® program; and a sharps mail return program through which individuals can safely dispose of their used syringes and lancets using our MedWaste Tracker® system. In addition, we have made investments that involve the acquisition and development of interests in oil and gas producing properties. Finally, we rent portable restroom facilities to municipalities and commercial customers under the name Port-o-Let®, we service such facilities and we provide street and parking lot sweeping services.  

Competition  

We encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. In North America, the industry consists primarily of two national waste management companies, regional companies and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources, including companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management, operators of alternative disposal facilities and companies that seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy and other by-products. We compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations.  

Operating costs, disposal costs and collection fees vary widely throughout the areas in which we operate. The prices that we charge are determined locally, and typically vary by volume and weight, type of waste collected, treatment requirements, risk of handling or disposal, frequency of collections, distance to final disposal sites, the availability of airspace within the geographic region, labor costs and amount and type of equipment furnished to the customer. We face intense competition in our Solid Waste business based on pricing and quality of service. We have also begun competing for business based on service offerings. As companies, individuals and communities look for ways to be more sustainable, we are investing in greener technologies and promoting our comprehensive services that go beyond our core business of collecting and disposing of waste.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Seasonal Trends  

Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends.  

Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes that most often impact our operations in the Southern and Eastern U.S., can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. While weather-related and other “one-time” occurrences can boost revenues through additional work for a limited time span, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions, including severe winter storms, may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. The operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities.  

Employees  

At December 31, 2012, we had approximately 43,500 full-time employees, of which approximately 7,500 were employed in administrative and sales positions and the balance in operations. Approximately 8,900 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  

Financial Assurance and Insurance Obligations  

Financial Assurance  

Municipal and governmental waste service contracts generally require contracting parties to demonstrate financial responsibility for their obligations under the contract. Financial assurance is also a requirement for (i) obtaining or retaining disposal site or transfer station operating permits; (ii) supporting variable-rate tax-exempt debt and (iii) estimated final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remedial obligations at many of our landfills.  

10  

Table of Contents 

We establish financial assurance using surety bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies, trust and escrow agreements and financial guarantees. The type of assurance used is based on several factors, most importantly: the jurisdiction, contractual requirements, market factors and availability of credit capacity. The following table summarizes the various forms and dollar amounts (in millions) of financial assurance that we had outstanding as of December 31, 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) We use surety bonds and insurance policies issued by a wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, National Guaranty Insurance Company of Vermont, the sole business of which is to issue financial assurance to WM and its subsidiaries. National Guaranty Insurance Company is authorized to write up to approximately $1.5 billion in surety bonds or insurance policies for our final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, waste collection contracts and other business-related obligations.  

 (b) We hold a noncontrolling interest in an entity that we use to obtain financial assurance. Our contractual agreement with this entity does not specifically limit the amounts of surety bonds or insurance that we may obtain, making our financial assurance under this agreement limited only by the guidelines and restrictions of surety and insurance regulations.  

 (c) WM has a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility with a term ending May 2016. At December 31, 2012, we had $400 million of outstanding borrowings and $933 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility. The unused and available credit capacity of the facility was $667 million as of December 31, 2012.  

 (d) We have an aggregate committed capacity of $505 million under letter of credit facilities with terms ending from June 2013 to June 2015. As of December 31, 2012, no borrowings were outstanding under these letter of credit facilities and we had $13 million of unused or available credit capacity.  

 (e) Our funded trust and escrow accounts generally have been established to support landfill final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations and our performance under various operating contracts. Balances maintained in these trust funds and escrow accounts will fluctuate based on (i) changes in statutory requirements; (ii) future deposits made to comply with contractual arrangements; (iii) the use of funds for qualifying activities; (iv) acquisitions or divestitures of landfills; and (v) changes in the fair value of the financial instruments held in the trust fund or escrow accounts. The assets held in our funded trust and escrow accounts may be drawn and used to meet the obligations for which the trusts and escrows were established.  

11  

Table of Contents 

 (f) Financial guarantees are provided primarily to support our performance of landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities. The amount of financial assurance provided by such guarantees is dependent upon measures of our tangible net worth and other criteria.  

 (g) The amount of financial assurance required can, and generally will, differ from the obligation determined and recorded under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  

The assets held in our funded trust and escrow accounts may be drawn and used to meet the closure, post-closure and remedial obligations for which the trusts and escrows were established. Other than these permitted draws on funds, virtually no claims have been made against our financial assurance instruments in the past, and considering our current financial position, management does not expect there to be claims against these instruments that will have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In an ongoing effort to mitigate the risks of future cost increases and reductions in available capacity, we are continually evaluating various options to access cost-effective sources of financial assurance.  

Insurance  

We carry a broad range of insurance coverages, including general liability, automobile liability, real and personal property, workers’ compensation, directors’ and officers’ liability, pollution legal liability, business interruption and other coverages we believe are customary to the industry. Our exposure to loss for insurance claims is generally limited to the per-incident deductible under the related insurance policy. As of December 31, 2012, our commercial General Liability Insurance Policy carried self-insurance exposures of up to $2.5 million per incident and our workers’ compensation insurance program carried self-insurance exposures of up to $5 million per incident. As of December 31, 2012, our auto liability insurance program included a per-incident base deductible of $5 million, subject to additional deductibles of $4.8 million in the $5 million to $10 million layer. We do not expect the impact of any known casualty, property, environmental or other contingency to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our estimated insurance liabilities as of December 31, 2012 are summarized in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

The Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance policy we choose to maintain covers only individual executive liability, often referred to as “Broad Form Side A,” and does not provide corporate reimbursement coverage, often referred to as “Side B.” The Side A policy covers directors and officers directly for loss, including defense costs, when corporate indemnification is unavailable. Side A-only coverage cannot be exhausted by payments to the Company, as the Company is not insured for any money it advances for defense costs or pays as indemnity to the insured directors and officers.  

Regulation  

Our business is subject to extensive and evolving federal, state or provincial and local environmental, health, safety and transportation laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are administered by the U.S. EPA, Environment Canada, and various other federal, state and local environmental, zoning, transportation, land use, health and safety agencies in the United States and Canada. Many of these agencies regularly examine our operations to monitor compliance with these laws and regulations and have the power to enforce compliance, obtain injunctions or impose civil or criminal penalties in case of violations. In recent years, we have perceived an increase in both the amount of government regulation and the number of enforcement actions being brought by regulatory entities against operations in the waste services industry. We expect this heightened governmental focus on regulation and enforcement to continue.  

Because the major component of our business is the collection and disposal of solid waste in an environmentally sound manner, a significant amount of our capital expenditures are related, either directly or indirectly, to environmental protection measures, including compliance with federal, state or provincial and local provisions that regulate the placement of materials into the environment. There are costs associated with siting, design, operations, monitoring, site maintenance, corrective actions, financial assurance, and facility closure and post-closure obligations. In connection with our acquisition, development or expansion of a disposal facility or transfer station, we must often spend considerable time, effort and money to obtain or maintain required permits and approvals. There cannot be any assurances that we will be able to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals. Once obtained, operating permits are subject to renewal, modification, suspension or revocation by the  

12  

Table of Contents 

 issuing agency. Compliance with these and any future regulatory requirements could require us to make significant capital and operating expenditures. However, most of these expenditures are made in the normal course of business and do not place us at any competitive disadvantage.  

The primary United States federal statutes affecting our business are summarized below:  

   Ÿ    The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, or RCRA, as amended, regulates handling, transporting and disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste and delegates authority to states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste. In 1991, the EPA issued its final regulations under Subtitle D of RCRA, which set forth minimum federal performance and design criteria for solid waste landfills. These regulations are typically implemented by the states, although states can impose requirements that are more stringent than the Subtitle D standards. We incur costs in complying with these standards in the ordinary course of our operations.  

   Ÿ    The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, which is also known as Superfund, provides for federal authority to respond directly to releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment that have created actual or potential environmental hazards. CERCLA’s primary means for addressing such releases is to impose strict liability for cleanup of disposal sites upon current and former site owners and operators, generators of the hazardous substances at the site and transporters who selected the disposal site and transported substances thereto. Liability under CERCLA is not dependent on the intentional disposal of hazardous substances; it can be based upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of lawful, unintentional and non-negligent action, of hazardous substances as the term is defined by CERCLA and other applicable statutes and regulations. Liability may include contribution for cleanup costs incurred by a defendant in a CERCLA civil action or by an entity that has previously resolved its liability to federal or state regulators in an administrative or judicially-approved settlement. Liability under CERCLA could also include obligations to a PRP that voluntarily expends site clean-up costs. Further, liability for damage to publicly-owned natural resources may also be imposed. We are subject to potential liability under CERCLA as an owner or operator of facilities at which hazardous substances have been disposed and as a generator or transporter of hazardous substances disposed of at other locations.  

   Ÿ    The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, known as the Clean Water Act, regulates the discharge of pollutants into streams, rivers, groundwater, or other surface waters from a variety of sources, including solid and hazardous waste disposal sites. If run-off from our operations may be discharged into surface waters, the Clean Water Act requires us to apply for and obtain discharge permits, conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. In 1990, the EPA issued additional standards for management of storm water runoff that require landfills and other waste-handling facilities to obtain storm water discharge permits. In addition, if a landfill or other facility discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly-owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by the treatment works. Also, before the development or expansion of a landfill can alter or affect “wetlands,” a permit may have to be obtained providing for mitigation or replacement wetlands. The Clean Water Act provides for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for violations of its provisions.  

   Ÿ    The Clean Air Act of 1970, as amended, provides for increased federal, state and local regulation of the emission of air pollutants. Certain of our operations are subject to the requirements of the Clean Air Act, including large municipal solid waste landfills and large municipal waste-to-energy facilities. Standards have also been imposed on manufacturers of transportation vehicles (including waste collection vehicles). In 1996 the EPA issued new source performance standards and emission guidelines controlling landfill gases from new and existing large landfills. In January 2003, the EPA issued Maximum Achievable Control Technology standards for municipal solid waste landfills subject to the new source performance standards. These regulations impose limits on air emissions from large municipal solid waste landfills, subject most of our large municipal solid waste landfills to certain operating permit requirements under Title V of the Clean Air Act and, in many instances, require installation of landfill gas collection and control systems to control emissions or to treat and utilize landfill gas on- or off-site.  

13  

Table of Contents 

The EPA has issued source performance standards and emission guidelines for large and small municipal waste-to-energy facilities, which include stringent emission limits for various pollutants based on Maximum Achievable Control Technology standards. These sources are also subject to operating permit requirements under Title V of the Clean Air Act. The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to review and revise the MACT standards applicable to municipal waste-to-energy facilities every five years.  

   Ÿ    The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and various reporting and record keeping obligations as well as disclosure and procedural requirements. Various standards for notices of hazards, safety in excavation and demolition work and the handling of asbestos, may apply to our operations. The Department of Transportation and OSHA, along with other federal agencies, have jurisdiction over certain aspects of hazardous materials and hazardous waste, including safety, movement and disposal. Various state and local agencies with jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous waste may seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law.  

We are also actively monitoring the following recent developments in United States federal statutes affecting our business:  

   Ÿ    In 2010, the EPA issued the Prevention of Significant Deterioration, or PSD, and Title V Greenhouse Gas, or GHG, Tailoring Rule which expanded the EPA’s federal air permitting authority to include the six GHGs, including methane and carbon dioxide. The rule sets new thresholds for GHG emissions that define when Clean Air Act permits are required. The current requirements of these rules have not significantly impacted our operations or cash flows, due to the current tailored thresholds and exclusions of certain emissions from regulation. Air permits for new and modified large municipal solid waste landfills, waste-to-energy facilities and landfill gas-to-energy facilities could be impacted, but the degree of impact is incumbent upon the EPA’s final determination on permitting of biogenic GHG emissions (e.g. carbon dioxide) as well as the EPA’s or implementing states’ determinations on what may constitute “Best Available Control Technology” for new projects exceeding certain thresholds. In addition, recent final and proposed reductions in certain National Ambient Air Quality Standards and related PSD increment/significance thresholds could impact the cost, timeliness and availability of air permits for new and modified large municipal solid waste landfills, waste-to-energy facilities and landfill gas-to-energy facilities. In general, controlling emissions involves drilling collection wells into a landfill and routing the gas to a suitable energy recovery system or combustion device. The landfill gas at 137 of our solid waste landfills is currently being captured and utilized for its renewable energy value. Efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effect of climate change may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls, with resulting capital or operating costs; however, we do not believe that such regulations will have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole. See Item 1A. Risk Factors — “The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could increase our costs to operate.” We are striving to anticipate the future needs of our customers by investing in and developing ever-more-advanced recycling and reuse technologies. Potential climate change and GHG regulation initiatives have influenced our business strategy to provide low-carbon services to our customers. If the U.S. were to impose a carbon tax or other form of GHG regulation increasing demand for low-carbon service offerings in the future, the services we are developing will be increasingly valuable. 

   Ÿ    In 2011, the EPA published the Non-Hazardous Secondary Materials, or NHSM, Rule, which provides the standards and procedures for identifying whether NHSM are solid waste under RCRA when used as fuels or ingredients in combustion units. The EPA also published new source performance standards and emission guidelines for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units, and Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards for commercial and industrial boilers. The EPA has published clarifications and recently published amendments to these rules. In addition, there is litigation surrounding the rules. Although the recently published amendments are generally favorable to our industry, some of the potential regulatory interpretations are still being reviewed and other regulatory  

14  

Table of Contents 

     outcomes may be dependent on case-by-case administrative determinations. These could have a significant impact on some of our projects in which we are seeking to convert biomass or other secondary materials into products, fuels or energy. Therefore, it is not possible to quantify the financial impact of these rulemakings or pending administrative determinations at the present time. However, we do not believe the rules or administrative determinations will have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole.  

There are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. Each state and province in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. States and provinces have also adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. Some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. Our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements.  

In addition, our landfill and waste-to-energy operations are affected by the increasing preference for alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal. Several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. Legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also have been or are under consideration by the U.S. Congress and the EPA.  

Various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. While laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. From time to time, the United States Congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. Additionally, several state and local governments have enacted “flow control” regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. In 1994, the United States Supreme Court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007, the Court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. The United States Congress’ adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control could adversely affect our operations. Courts’ interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services.  

Many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted “fitness” laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant’s or permit holder’s compliance history. Some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. These laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant’s or permit holder’s fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  

See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosures relating to our current assessments of the impact of regulations on our current and future operations.  

15  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.