PART I.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

Willis Towers Watson plc was formed upon completion of the Merger on January 4, 2016, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 29, 2015, as amended on November 19, 2015 (the ‘Merger Agreement’), between Legacy Willis, Legacy Towers Watson, and Citadel Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Willis formed for the purpose of facilitating this transaction (‘Merger Sub’). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub merged with and into Towers Watson with Towers Watson continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Willis. 

Immediately following the Merger, Legacy Willis effected (i) a consolidation (i.e., a reverse stock split under Irish law) of Willis ordinary shares whereby every 2.6490 Legacy Willis ordinary shares were consolidated into one Willis Towers Watson ordinary share (the ‘Consolidation’) and (ii) an amendment to its Constitution and other organizational documents to change its name from Willis Group Holdings Public Limited Company to Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company. 

We trace our history to 1828, and are a leading global advisory, broking and solutions company that helps clients around the world turn risk into a path for growth.

We continue to integrate Willis and Towers Watson while creating a unified platform for global growth, including positioning the Company to leverage our mutual distribution strength to enhance market penetration, expand our global footprint and create a strong platform for further innovation. The Company provides a comprehensive offering of services and solutions to clients across four business segments: Human Capital and Benefits; Corporate Risk and Broking; Investment, Risk and Reinsurance; and Benefits Delivery and Administration, formerly Exchange Solutions. 

Our clients operate on a global and local scale in a multitude of businesses and industries throughout the world and generally range in size from large, major multinational corporations to middle-market domestic and international companies. Our clients include many of the world’s leading corporations, including 90% or more of the Fortune Global 500 companies, the Fortune 1000, and the FTSE 100. We also advise substantially all of the world’s leading insurance companies. We work with major corporations, emerging growth companies, governmental agencies and not-for-profit institutions in a wide variety of industries, with many of our client relationships spanning decades. No one client accounted for a significant concentration of revenues in each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015. We place insurance with approximately 2,500 insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for a significant concentration of the total premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2017, 2016 or 2015. 

Available Information

The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ‘SEC’). You may read and copy any documents we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549. Call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the Public Reference Room. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information that issuers (including Willis Towers Watson) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is www.sec.gov.

The Company makes available, free of charge through our website, www.willistowerswatson.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our proxy statement, current reports on Form 8-K and Forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, as well as any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ‘Exchange Act’) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Unless specifically incorporated by reference, information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K.

The Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit & Risk Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, and Nominating & Governance Committee Charter are available on our website, www.willistowerswatson.com, in the Investor Relations section, or upon request. Requests for copies of these documents should be directed in writing to the Company Secretary c/o Office of General Counsel, Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, Brookfield Place, 200 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10281.

General Information

Willis Towers Watson is a leading global advisory, broking and solutions company that helps clients around the world turn risk into a path for growth. Willis Towers Watson has more than 43,000 employees and services clients in more than 140 countries and territories. We design and deliver solutions that manage risk, optimize benefits, cultivate talent, and expand the power of 

5

capital to protect and strengthen institutions and individuals. We believe our unique perspective allows us to see the critical intersections between talent, assets and ideas - the dynamic formula that drives business performance. 

We offer our clients a broad range of services to help them to identify and control their risks, and to enhance business performance by improving their ability to attract, retain and engage a talented workforce. Our risk control services range from strategic risk consulting (including providing actuarial analysis), to a variety of due diligence services, to the provision of practical on-site risk control services (such as health and safety or property loss control consulting), as well as analytical and advisory services (such as hazard modeling and reinsurance optimization studies). We assist clients in planning how to manage incidents or crises when they occur. These services include contingency planning, security audits and product tampering plans. We help our clients enhance their business performance by delivering consulting services, technology and solutions that help them anticipate, identify and capitalize on emerging opportunities in human capital management as well as offer investment advice to help them develop disciplined and efficient strategies to meet their investment goals. 

As an insurance broker, we act as an intermediary between our clients and insurance carriers by advising our clients on their risk management requirements, helping them to determine the best means of managing risk and negotiating and placing insurance with insurance carriers through our global distribution network. We operate the largest private Medicare exchange in the United States (‘U.S.’). Through this exchange and those for active employees, we help our clients move to a more sustainable economic model by capping and controlling the costs associated with healthcare benefits. 

We are not an insurance company, and therefore we do not underwrite insurable risks for our own account. 

We derive the majority of our revenues from either commissions or fees for brokerage or consulting services. We do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Commission levels generally follow the same trend as premium levels as they are derived from a percentage of the premiums paid by the insureds. Fluctuations in these premiums charged by the insurance carriers can therefore have a direct and potentially material impact on our results of operations. Our fees for consulting services are spread across a variety of complementary businesses that generally remain steady during times of uncertainty. We have some businesses, such as our health and benefits and administration businesses, which can be counter cyclical during the early period of a significant economic change. 

Our colleagues serve a diverse base of clients ranging in size from large, major multinational corporations to middle-market companies in a variety of industries, public institutions, and individual clients. Many of our client relationships span decades. We work with established corporations, emerging growth companies, governmental agencies and not-for-profit institutions in a wide variety of industries.

We believe we are one of only a few global advisory, broking and solutions companies in the world possessing the global operating presence, broad product expertise and extensive distribution network necessary to effectively meet the global needs of many of our clients.

Below are our revenues and long-lived assets for Ireland, our country of domicile, countries with significant concentrations, and all other foreign countries for each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(i)Long-Lived Assets do not include deferred tax assets.

6

Business Strategy

Willis Towers Watson sees that a unified approach to people and risk can be a path to growth for our clients. Our integrated teams bring together our understanding of risk strategies and market analytics. This helps clients around the world to achieve their objectives.

We operate in attractive markets - both growing and mature - with a diversified platform across geographies, industries, segments and lines of business. We aim to become the premier advisory, broking and solutions company of choice. We design and deliver solutions that manage risk, optimize benefits, cultivate talent, and expand the power of capital to protect and strengthen institutions and individuals. We also help organizations improve performance through effective people, risk and financial management by focusing on providing human capital and financial consulting services.

 We believe we can achieve this by: 

•Delivering a powerful client proposition with an integrated global platform. Our combined offerings provide comprehensive advice, analytics, specialty capabilities and solutions covering benefits, benefits delivery solutions, brokerage and advisory, risk and capital management, and talent and rewards; 

•Leveraging our combined distribution strength and global footprint to enhance market penetration and provide a platform for further innovation; and

•Underpinning this growth through continuous operational improvement initiatives that help make us more effective and efficient and drive cost synergies. We do this by: 

◦continuing to modernize the way we run our business to better serve our clients, enabling the skills of our staff, and lowering our costs of doing business; 

◦making the necessary changes to our processes, our IT, our real estate and our workforce locations; and 

◦targeting and delivering identified, highly achievable cost savings as a direct consequence of the Merger. 

We care as much about how we work as we do about the impact that we make. This means commitment to shared values, a framework that guides how we run our business and serve clients.

Through these strategies we aim to accelerate revenue, cash flow, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (‘EBITDA’), and earnings growth, and generate compelling returns for investors, by delivering tangible growth in revenues and capitalizing on the identified cost synergies.

Principal Services

In 2016, we began managing our business across four integrated reportable operating segments: Human Capital and Benefits; Corporate Risk and Broking; Investment, Risk and Reinsurance; and Benefits Delivery and Administration. Below are the percentages of revenues generated by each segment for each of the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

7

The average number of employees by segment for the year ended December 31, 2017 is approximated below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Human Capital and Benefits 

The Willis Towers Watson Human Capital & Benefits (‘HCB’) segment provides an array of advice, broking, solutions and software for employee benefit plans, the human resources (‘HR’) organization and the management teams of our clients.  

HCB is the largest segment of the Company, generating approximately 39% of our segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. Organized into four primary offerings - Retirement; Health & Benefits; Talent & Rewards; and Technology and Administration Solutions, the segment is focused on addressing our clients’ people and risk needs to help them take on the challenges of operating in a global marketplace. 

HCB is strengthened with teams of international consultants that provide support in each of these areas to the global headquarters of multinational clients and their foreign subsidiaries. 

Retirement — The Retirement business provides actuarial support, plan design, and administrative services for traditional pension and retirement savings plans. Our colleagues help our clients assess the costs and risks of retirement plans on cash flow, earnings and the balance sheet, the effects of changing workforce demographics on their retirement plans and retiree benefit adequacy and security. We offer clients a full range of integrated retirement consulting services to meet the needs of all types of employers - including those that continue to offer defined benefit plans and those that are reexamining their retirement benefit strategies. We bring a particular in-depth data analysis and perspective to their decision process, because we have tracked the retirement designs of the largest public companies around the world over many years. 

For clients that want to outsource some or all of their pension plan management, we offer integrated solutions that combine investment consulting, pension administration, core actuarial services, and communication and change management assistance. 

Our retirement consulting relationships are generally long-term in nature, and client retention rates for this business are high. A significant portion of the revenues in this business is from recurring work, with multi-year contracts that are driven by the heavily regulated nature of employee benefit plans and our clients’ annual needs for these services. Revenues for the Retirement business are somewhat seasonal, as much of our work pertains to calendar-year plan administration and reporting and compliance related to the completion of pension plan valuations; thus, the first quarter of the fiscal year is typically Retirement’s strongest quarter. Major revenue growth drivers in this business include changes in regulations, capital market conditions, increased global demand and increased market share. 

Health and Benefits — The Health & Benefits (‘H&B’) business provides plan management consulting, broking and administration across the full spectrum of health and group benefit programs, including medical, dental, disability, life and other coverage. Our H&B reach extends from small/mid-market clients to large market clients, across the full geographic footprint of the Company, and to most industries. We can address our clients’ insured needs in more than 140 countries. 

Our consultants help clients make strategic decisions on topics such as optimizing program spend; evaluating emerging coverage options (including publicly-subsidized health insurance exchanges and private exchanges in the U.S.); and dealing with above-inflation-rate increases in healthcare costs. In addition to our consulting services, we manage a number of collective purchasing initiatives, such as pharmacy and stop-loss, that allow employers to realize greater value from third-party service providers than they can achieve on their own. 

With Global Benefits Solutions, our suite of global services supporting medical, dental and risk (life, accident and disability) programs, we have a tailored offering for multinationals. That offering includes a flexible set of ready-made offerings, proven technology, efficient operational structure and an integrated approach to service delivery that translates to a globally consistent, high-quality experience for our clients. 

8

Finally, H&B supports our Group Marketplace, our private health insurance exchange for active employees. This offering is integrated with our other health insurance exchange offerings covered by our Individual Marketplace, which are offered within the Benefits Delivery and Administration segment. 

Talent & Rewards — Our Talent & Rewards (‘T&R’) business provides advice, data, software and products to address clients’ total rewards and talent issues. T&R has operations across the globe, including centralized software development and analytics teams that support the efficient delivery of services to clients. 

Within our Rewards line of business, we address both executive compensation and broad-based rewards. We advise our clients’ management and boards of directors on all aspects of executive pay programs, including base pay, annual bonuses, long-term incentives, perquisites and other benefits. Our focus is on aligning pay plans with the organization’s business strategy and driving desired performance. Our solutions incorporate market benchmarking data and software to support compensation administration.  

Our Talent line of business offers services focused on designing and implementing talent management programs and processes which help companies attract and deploy talent, engage them over time, manage their performance, develop their skills, provide them with relevant career paths, communicate with them and manage organizational change initiatives. Our solutions include employee insight and listening tools, talent assessment tools and services, and HR software to help companies administer and manage their talent management programs and analyze talent trends. 

Revenues for the T&R business are partly seasonal in nature, with a meaningful amount of heightened activity in the second half of the calendar year during the annual compensation, benefits and survey cycles. While T&R enjoys long-term relationships with many clients, work in several practices is often project-based and can be sensitive to economic changes. The business benefits from regulatory changes affecting our clients that require strategic advice, program changes and communication such as CEO pay ratio disclosure in the U.S. and gender pay gap reporting in the United Kingdom (‘U.K.’) Additional areas of growth for T&R include evolving views on effective individual performance measurement and management, focus on workforce productivity improvements and labor cost reductions, globalization and digitization of the workforce, merger and acquisition (‘M&A’) activity, technology-enabled approaches for measuring and understanding workforce engagement, and the opportunity to leverage HR software to improve the design, management and implementation of HR processes and programs. 

Technology and Administration Solutions — Our Technology and Administration Solutions (‘TAS’) business provides benefits outsourcing services to hundreds of clients across multiple industries. Our TAS team focuses on clients outside of the U.S. where our services are supported by high quality administration teams using robust technology platforms. We have high client retention rates, and we are the leading administrator among the 200 largest pension plans in the U.K., as well as a leader in Germany. 

For both our defined benefit and defined contribution administration services, we use highly-automated processes and web technology to enable benefit plan members to access and manage their records, perform self-service functions and improve their understanding of their benefits. Our technology also provides trustees and HR teams with timely management information to monitor activity and service levels and reduce administration costs. 

Corporate Risk and Broking 

Our Corporate Risk & Broking (‘CRB’) segment provides a broad range of risk advice, insurance brokerage and consulting services to clients worldwide ranging from small businesses to multinational corporations. The segment delivers integrated global solutions tailored to client needs and underpinned by data and analytics. 

CRB generated approximately 33% of Willis Towers Watson segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017, and places more than $20 billion of premium into the insurance markets, annually. 

CRB operates as an integrated global team comprising both functional and geographic leadership. In addition there are three global offerings, which aim to leverage capabilities across geographies. In these operations, we have extensive specialized experience handling diverse lines of coverage, including complex insurance programs. A key objective is to assist clients in reducing their overall cost of risk. 

Property and Casualty — Property and Casualty provides property and liability insurance brokerage services across a wide range of industries including construction, real estate, healthcare and natural resources. Our construction practice provides risk management advice and brokerage services for a wide range of international construction activities. Clients of the construction practice include contractors, project owners, project managers, consultants and financiers. Our natural resources practice encompasses the oil and gas, mining, power and utilities sectors; and provides services including property damage, offshore 

9

construction liability and other services to global clients. In addition, we also arrange insurance products and services for our affinity client partners to offer to their customers, employees or members alongside, or in addition to, their principal business offerings. 

Financial Lines — Financial Lines specializes in brokerage services for financial, political and credit risks. Our clients include financial institutions, professional services firms and affinity groups from around the globe that require coverage for areas ranging from business risks, such as trade credit, directors and officers and medical malpractice, to external threats, such as cyber attacks, terrorism and creditor payment protection. 

Transport — Transport provides specialist expertise to the transportation industry and aerospace, marine and inspace practices. Our aerospace business provides insurance brokerage and risk management services to aerospace clients worldwide, including the world’s leading airlines, aircraft manufacturers, air cargo handlers and other airport and general aviation companies. Our marine business provides insurance brokerage services, including hull, cargo, protection and indemnity and general marine liabilities. Our marine clients include ship owners, ship builders, logistics operations, port authorities, traders and shippers. The specialist inspace team is also prominent in providing insurance and risk management services to the space industry. 

Facultative capabilities exist within each of the above offerings to serve as a broker or intermediary for insurance companies looking to arrange reinsurance solutions across various classes of risk. This allows our team of experts to deliver differentiated outcomes to their direct insureds, which in many situations are also clients of the wider Willis Towers Watson business. The facultative team also works closely with our treaty reinsurance business to structure reinsurance solutions that deliver capital and strategic benefits to insurance company clients. 

Investment, Risk and Reinsurance 

The Willis Towers Watson Investment, Risk and Reinsurance (‘IRR’) segment uses a sophisticated approach to risk which helps clients free up capital and manage investment complexity. The segment works closely with investors, reinsurers and insurers to manage the equation between risk and return. Blending advanced analytics with deep institutional knowledge, IRR identifies new opportunities to maximize performance. IRR provides investment consulting services and insurance specific services and solutions through reserves opinions, software, ratemaking, usage-based insurance, risk underwriting, and reinsurance broking. 

This segment is our third largest segment and generated approximately 19% of segment revenues for the Company for the year ended December 31, 2017. With approximately 75% of the revenues for this segment split between North America and the U.K., this segment includes the following businesses and offerings: 

Willis Re — Willis Re provides reinsurance industry clients with an understanding of how risk affects capital and financial performance and advises on the best ways to manage related outcomes. We operate this business on a global basis and provide a complete range of transactional capabilities, including, in conjunction with Willis Towers Watson Securities, a wide variety of capital markets-based products to both insurance and reinsurance companies. Our services are underpinned by modeling, financial analysis and risk management advice. 

Insurance Consulting and Technology — Insurance Consulting and Technology, formerly Risk Consulting and Software, is a global business that provides advice and technology solutions to the insurance industry, as well as to corporate clients with respect to their insurance programs. We leverage our industry experience, strategic perspective and analytical skills to help clients measure and manage risk and capital, improve business performance and create a sustainable competitive advantage. Our services include software and technology, risk and capital management, products and pricing, financial and regulatory reporting, financial and capital modeling, M&A, outsourcing and business management. 

Investment — Investment provides advice to improve investment outcomes for asset owners using a broad and sophisticated framework for managing risk. We provide coordinated investment advice and solutions to some of the world’s largest pension funds and institutional investors based on our expertise in risk assessment, asset-liability modeling, strategic asset allocation policy setting, manager selection and investment execution.  

Wholesale Insurance Broking — Wholesale Insurance Broking provides wholesale and specialist broking services to retail brokers worldwide, through Willis Towers Watson and London based specialist broker Miller Insurance Services LLP.  

Portfolio and Underwriting Services — Portfolio and Underwriting Services, with operations in London and North America, brings together our existing set of Managing General Agent underwriting activities for purposes of accelerating their future development. Within Portfolio and Underwriting Services, we act on behalf of our insurance carrier partners and self-insured entities in product marketing and distribution, risk underwriting and selection, claims management and other general administrative responsibilities.  

10

Willis Towers Watson Securities — Formerly Capital Markets & Advisory, with offices in New York, London, Hong Kong and Sydney, provides investment banking services to companies involved in the insurance and reinsurance industries for a broad array of merger and acquisition transactions as well as capital markets products, including acting as underwriter for primary issuances, operating a secondary insurance-linked securities trading desk and engaging in strategic advisory work.

Max Matthiessen — Max Matthiessen is a leading advisor and broker within insurance, benefits, human resources and savings in the Nordic region. The business specializes in providing human capital and benefits administration together with providing market leading savings and insurance solutions.

Benefits Delivery and Administration 

The Willis Towers Watson Benefits Delivery and Administration (‘BDA’, formerly Exchange Solutions) segment provides primary medical and ancillary benefit exchange and outsourcing services to active employees and retirees across both the group and individual markets. BDA services individual populations via its ‘group to individual’ technology platform, which tightly integrates patented call routing technology, an efficient quoting and enrollment engine, a Customer Relationship Management system and comprehensive insurance carrier connectivity. This segment also delivers group benefit exchanges and full outsourcing solutions serving the active employees of employers across the United States. BDA uses Software as a Service (‘SaaS’)-based technology and related services to deliver consumer-driven healthcare and reimbursement accounts, including health savings accounts, health reimbursement arrangements, flexible spending accounts and other consumer-directed accounts. 

A significant portion of the revenues in this segment is recurring in nature, driven by either the commissions from the policies we sell, or from long-term service contracts with our clients that typically range from three to five years. Revenues across this segment may be seasonal, driven by the magnitude and timing of client transition activities, and we typically increase our membership levels significantly effective January 1, after calendar year-end benefits elections. 

BDA generated approximately 9% of our segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017. BDA provides services across four integrated or related offerings, listed below, to customers primarily in the U.S. 

Individual Marketplace (formerly Retiree & Access Exchanges) — This business provides solutions through a proprietary technology platform, OneExchange Retiree, which enables our employer clients to transition their retirees to individual, defined contribution health plans that provide individuals with a tax-free allowance or contribution to spend on healthcare services at an annual cost that the employer controls, as opposed to group-based, defined benefit health plans that provide groups of individuals with healthcare benefits at uncertain annual costs. 

Group Marketplace (formerly Active Exchanges) — This business is focused on delivering group benefit exchanges, serving the active employees of employers across the United States. Using our proprietary BenefitConnect or Bright Choices exchange platforms, combined with our expertise in creating high-performing benefit plan designs, we believe we are well-positioned to help our clients simplify their benefits delivery, while lowering the total costs of benefits and related administration. We have relationships with more than 400 broker partners to access and service the small to mid-size group market and offer both fully-insured and self-insured exchanges to meet the needs of our employer clients. 

Benefits Outsourcing (formerly Technology and Administration Solutions) — Through our proprietary BenefitConnect technology, this business provides a broad suite of health and welfare outsourcing services as well as decision support and modeling tools for pension users within the U.S. With our disciplined approach to customer service, we offer cost-effective, high-touch service to hundreds of clients across many industries. 

Benefits Accounts (formerly Consumer-Directed Accounts) — This business uses its SaaS-based technology and related services to deliver consumer-driven healthcare and reimbursement accounts, including health savings accounts, health reimbursement arrangements and other consumer-directed accounts. 

Competition 

We face competition in all fields in which we operate, based on global capability, product breadth, innovation, quality of service and price. We compete with Accenture plc, Aon plc, Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., Brown & Brown Inc., Cognizant Technology Solutions Corporation, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Robert Half International Inc., as well as with numerous specialty, regional and local firms. Marsh & McLennan Companies and Aon plc are the two other major providers of global risk management services. Competition for business is intense in all of our business lines and in every insurance market, and in some business lines Marsh & McLennan Companies and Aon plc have greater market share than we do.

Competition on premium rates has also exacerbated the pressures caused by a continuing reduction in demand in some classes of business. For example, rather than purchase additional insurance through brokers, some insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously. Industrial and commercial companies increasingly rely upon their 

11

own subsidiary insurance companies, known as captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than buy insurance. Additional competitive pressures arise from the entry of new market participants, such as banks, accounting firms and insurance carriers themselves, offering risk management or transfer services. 

The human capital and risk management consulting industries are highly competitive. We believe there are significant barriers to entry, and we have developed competitive advantages in providing HR consulting and risk management consulting services. We face strong competition from several sources. 

Our principal competitors in the pension consulting industry are Mercer HR Consulting (a Marsh & McLennan company) and Aon plc. Beyond these large players, the global HR consulting industry is highly fragmented. 

Our major competitors in the insurance consulting and software industry include Milliman, Oliver Wyman (a Marsh & McLennan company), the big four accounting firms and SunGard. Aon, Buck Consultants (a Conduent Company), Connextions (a United Healthcare company), Mercer (a Marsh & McLennan company), Automatic Data Processing and Fidelity are our primary competitors in the insurance exchange industry. With the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, we also compete with the public exchanges currently run by the U.S. federal and state governments. We now compete with providers of account-based health plans and consumer-directed benefits such as WageWorks and HealthEquity. 

The market for our services is subject to change as a result of economic, regulatory and legislative changes, technological developments, and increased competition from established and new competitors. Regulatory and legislative actions, along with continuously evolving technological developments, will likely have the greatest impact on the overall market for our exchange products. We believe the primary factors in selecting an HR consulting or risk management services firm include reputation; the ability to provide measurable increases to shareholder value and return on investment; global scale; quality of service; and the ability to tailor services to clients’ unique needs. With regard to the marketplace for individuals and active employee exchanges, we believe that clients base their decisions on a variety of factors that include the ability of the provider to deliver measurable cost savings for clients, a strong reputation for efficient execution, a provider’s capability in delivering a broad number of configurations to serve various population segments and financing options, and an innovative service delivery model and platform. For our traditional consulting and risk management services and the rapidly evolving exchange products, we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors. 

Regulation 

Our business activities are subject to legal requirements and governmental and quasi-governmental regulatory supervision in all countries in which we operate. Also, such regulations may require individual or company licensing to conduct our business activities. While these requirements may vary from location to location, they are generally designed to protect our clients by establishing minimum standards of conduct and practice, particularly regarding the provision of advice and product information, as well as financial criteria. We are also subject to data privacy regulations in many countries. Our most significant regulatory regions are described below: 

United States 

Our activities in connection with insurance brokerage services within the United States are subject to regulation and supervision by state authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws in the United States are often complex and generally grant broad discretion to supervisory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. That supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling and investment of client funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Our continuing ability to provide insurance brokerage in the states in which we currently operate is dependent upon our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the regulatory authorities in each of these states. Additionally, some of our private exchange activities are overseen by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, which is part of the Department of Health and Human Services. 

Certain of our activities are governed by other regulatory bodies, such as investment and securities licensing authorities. Our activities in connection with investment services within the United States are subject to regulation and supervision at both the federal and state levels. At the federal level, certain of our operating subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC through the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Investment Advisers’ Act of 1940; and by the Department of Labor through the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA. In connection with the SEC regulations, we are required to file certain reports, and are subject to various marketing restrictions, among other requirements. In connection with ERISA regulations, we are restricted in actions we can take for plans for which we serve as fiduciaries, among other matters. Our U.S. investment activities are also subject to certain state regulatory schemes. 

12

Our Willis Towers Watson Securities business operates through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Willis Securities, Inc., a U.S.-registered broker-dealer and member of FINRA/SIPC, primarily in connection with investment banking services and advising on alternative risk financing transactions. 

Our activities in connection with Third Party Administrator (‘TPA’) services in the United States are also subject to regulation and supervision by many state authorities. Licensing requirements and supervision vary from state to state. As with insurance brokerage services, our continuing ability to provide these services in states that regulate our activities is dependent upon our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these states. 

United Kingdom 

In the United Kingdom, our business is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’). The FCA has a wide range of rule-making, investigatory and enforcement powers, and conducts monitoring visits to assess our compliance with regulatory requirements. 

The FCA has a sole strategic objective: to ensure that the relevant markets function well. Its operational objectives are to: secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers; protect and enhance the integrity of the U.K. financial system; and to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers. The FCA has powers in product intervention. For instance, it can instruct firms to withdraw or amend misleading financial promotions. A U.K. exit from the E.U. may cause an increase in regulations in the U.K.

European Union 

In 2005, the European Union Insurance Mediation Directive introduced rules to enable insurance and reinsurance intermediaries to operate and provide services within each member state of the European Union (‘E.U.’) on a basis consistent with the E.U. single market and customer protection aims. Each E.U. member state in which we operate is required to ensure that the insurance and reinsurance intermediaries resident in their country are registered with a statutory body in that country and that each intermediary meets professional requirements in relation to their competence, good repute, professional indemnity cover and financial capacity. The E.U. has been in the process of updating the Insurance Mediation Directive. Various E.U. bodies have created a replacement to the Insurance Mediation Directive called the Insurance Distribution Directive. The current timetable would require all E.U. member states to make the Insurance Distribution Directive national law by July 1, 2018. The Insurance Distribution Directive is now proposed to become effective on October 1, 2018.  

In addition, our Willis Towers Watson Securities business provides advice on securities or investments in the European Union and Australia through our U.K. wholly-owned subsidiary, Willis Towers Watson Securities Europe Limited, which is authorized and regulated by the FCA. 

Willis Towers Watson is also subject to the new E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (‘GDPR’), which goes into effect in May 2018. The GDPR is a new, comprehensive regime that significantly increases our responsibilities when handling personal data, including, without limitation, requiring us to conduct privacy impact assessments, restricting the transmission of data and requiring public disclosure of significant data breaches.  

Other 

Our Willis Towers Watson Securities business, through an affiliate, Willis Towers Watson Securities (Hong Kong) Limited, is licensed to conduct certain securities-related activities, and is subject to regulation by the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission. Certain of our entities that undertake pension scheme management are subject to MiFID (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive) and MiFIR (the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation). In addition, revisions to MiFID (‘MiFID II’) took effect in January 2018. These revisions are aimed at strengthening investor protection and improving the function of financial markets. MiFID II imposes a variety of new requirements that include, among others, rules relating to product governance and independent investment advice, responsibility of management bodies, inducements, information and reporting to clients, cross-selling, remuneration of staff, and best execution of trades for clients. Further, some of our entities are also authorized and regulated by certain financial services authorities in countries such as Sweden, Ireland, the Netherlands and the U.K. 

All companies carrying on similar activities in a given jurisdiction are subject to regulations which are not dissimilar to the requirements for our operations in the United States and United Kingdom. We do not consider these regulatory requirements as adversely affecting our competitive position. 

Across all geographies we are subject to various data privacy regulations that apply to medical, financial and other types of personal information belonging to our clients, their employees and third parties, as well as our own employees. 

13

Our failure, or that of our employees, to satisfy the regulatory compliance requirements or the legal requirements governing our activities, can result in disciplinary action, fines, reputational damage and financial harm. 

See Part I, Item 1A-Risk Factors for an analysis of how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of the Company as of February 28, 2018 were as follows:

Nicolas Aubert (age 52) - Mr. Aubert has served as the Head of Great Britain at Willis Towers Watson since January 4, 2016, and as the CEO of Willis Limited, the Company’s U.K. insurance and reinsurance broking subsidiary, since September 30, 2015. Prior to his appointment as the Head of Great Britain, Mr. Aubert served as CEO of Willis GB, the operating segment of Willis Group Holdings that included Willis’ London specialty businesses and facultative business, and the retail insurance business in Great Britain since January 2015. Since March 2016, Mr. Aubert has served as the Chairman of the London Market Group (LMG), a professional body representing the common interests of the London Insurance Market operators, Lloyd’s of London, IUA, LIIBA and LMA. Prior to joining Willis, Mr. Aubert served as the Chief Operating Officer of American International Group (AIG) in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and formerly as the Managing Director of AIG in the U.K. After joining AIG in June 2002 to lead AIG France, Mr. Aubert served in various other senior management positions, including Managing Director of Southern Europe, where he oversaw operations in 12 countries, including Israel. Prior to AIG, Mr. Aubert worked in various leadership positions at ACE, CIGNA, GAN and started his career at GENERALI. He holds specialized Masters Degrees in Insurance Law (DESS Assurances) from Pantheon-Sorbonne University of Paris and from Institut des Assurances de Paris (Université Paris-Dauphine) and an M.B.A. from the French High Insurance Studies Center (CHEA).

Anne D. Bodnar (age 61) - Ms. Bodnar has served as the Chief Human Resources Officer at Willis Towers Watson since January 4, 2016. Previously, Ms. Bodnar served on Towers Watson’s Management Committee since January 2015, and as Towers Watson’s Chief Administrative Officer since January 1, 2010. Ms. Bodnar previously served as Managing Director of HR at Towers Perrin beginning in 2001. From 1995 to 2000, Ms. Bodnar led Towers Perrin’s recruiting and learning and development efforts. Prior to that, she was a strategy consultant in Towers Perrin’s Human Capital business. Earlier in her career, Ms. Bodnar held several operational and strategic planning roles at what is now JPMorgan Chase. Additionally, Ms. Bodnar published a chapter entitled “HR as a Strategic Partner” in Human Resources Leadership Strategies: Fifteen Ways to Enhance HR Value in Your Company. She was elected to the YWCA’s Academy of Women Achievers in 1999. Ms. Bodnar graduated cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Smith College and has an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.

Michael J. Burwell (age 54) - Mr. Burwell has served as Chief Financial Officer of Willis Towers Watson since October 3, 2017. Before joining Willis Towers Watson, Mr. Burwell spent over 30 years at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC), where he served in various senior leadership roles, including, most recently, as a Senior Partner driving Transformation activities with various clients across industries since 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Burwell served as Vice Chairman, Global and US Transformation Leader from 2012 to 2016, as Vice Chairman, US Operations Leader (COO) and Chief Financial Officer from 2007 to 2012, and as Leader of the Transaction Services practice from 2005 to 2007. During his initial time at PwC, Mr. Burwell served 11 years in the assurance practice working on numerous audit clients. He has a bachelor’s degree in business administration from Michigan State University and is a certified public accountant. In 2010, he was named Michigan State University’s Alumnus of the year.

Matthew S. Furman (age 48) - Mr. Furman has served as General Counsel at Willis Towers Watson since January 4, 2016. Previously, Mr. Furman served as Executive Vice President and Group General Counsel at Willis Group Holdings, where he was a member of the Operating Committee since April 2015. From 2007 until March 2015, Mr. Furman was Senior Vice President, Group General Counsel-Corporate and Governance, and Corporate Secretary for The Travelers Companies, Inc. From 2000 until 2007, Mr. Furman was an attorney at Goldman, Sachs & Co. in New York, where he was Vice President and Associate General Counsel in the finance and corporate legal group. Prior to that, he was in private practice, with almost six years’ experience at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett in New York. Mr. Furman also serves as a Director of the Legal Aid Society and a member of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s Investor Advisory Committee. He holds a bachelor’s degree from Brown University and a law degree from Harvard Law School.

Adam L. Garrard (age 52) - Mr. Garrard has served as Head of International at Willis Towers Watson since January 4, 2016. Previously, Mr. Garrard served as Chief Executive Officer for Willis Group Holdings in Asia since September 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Garrard served as Chief Executive Officer for Willis in Europe since January 2009, Chief Executive Officer for Willis in Australasia since May 2005 and Chief Executive Officer for Asia since January 2002. Mr. Garrard has resided in Singapore, Shanghai, Sydney and London while undertaking his Chief Executive Officer roles. After graduating from De Montfort University with a bachelor’s degree in Business Administration in 1992, Mr. Garrard joined SBJ Stephenson Insurance Brokers before joining Willis in 1994.

14

Julie J. Gebauer (age 56) - Ms. Gebauer has served as Head of Human Capital & Benefits at Willis Towers Watson since January 4, 2016. Previously, Ms. Gebauer served as Managing Director of Towers Watson’s Talent and Rewards business segment since January 1, 2010. Beginning in 2002, Ms. Gebauer served as a Managing Director of Towers Perrin and led Towers Perrin’s global Workforce Effectiveness Practice and the global Towers Perrin-International Survey Research Corporation line of business. Ms. Gebauer was a member of Towers Perrin’s Board of Directors from 2003 through 2006. She joined Towers Perrin in 1986 as a consultant and held several leadership positions at Towers Perrin, serving as the Managing Principal for the New York office from 1999 to 2001 and the U.S. East Region Leader for the Human Capital Group from 2002 to 2006. Ms. Gebauer is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries. Ms. Gebauer graduated Phi Beta Kappa and with high distinction from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln with a bachelor’s degree in Mathematics, and was designated a Chancellor’s Scholar.

Joseph Gunn (age 47) - Mr. Gunn has served as the Head of North America at Willis Towers Watson since October 27, 2016. Previously, Mr. Gunn served as the regional director for the Northeast region of Willis Towers Watson where he led the business in both Metro New York and New England since January 4, 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Gunn served as the National Partner for the Northeast Region at Willis North America since July 2009, and before that, as the Chief Growth Officer for Willis North America and regional executive officer for the South Central region of Willis North America since August 2006. Before joining Willis in 2004, Mr. Gunn led the Marsh Client Development team for the North Texas operations and served as a senior relationship officer on several large accounts. Mr. Gunn serves as a member of the board of trustees of Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York. He holds a bachelor’s degree in Political Science from Florida State University.

John J. Haley (age 68) - Mr. Haley has served as Chief Executive Officer and Director at Willis Towers Watson since January 4, 2016. Previously, Mr. Haley served as the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Towers Watson since January 1, 2010, and as President since October 3, 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Haley served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Watson Wyatt beginning on January 1, 1999, as Chairman of the Board of Watson Wyatt beginning in 1999 and as a director of Watson Wyatt beginning in 1992. Mr. Haley joined Watson Wyatt in 1977. Prior to becoming President and Chief Executive Officer of Watson Wyatt, he was the Global Director of the Benefits Group at Watson Wyatt. Mr. Haley is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, and a member of the American Academy of Actuaries and the Conference of Consulting Actuaries. He is also a co-author of Fundamentals of Private Pensions (University of Pennsylvania Press). Mr. Haley also serves on the board of MAXIMUS, Inc., a provider of health and human services program management, consulting services and system solutions, and previously served on the board of Hudson Global, Inc., an executive search, specialty staffing and related consulting services firm. He has an A.B. in Mathematics from Rutgers College and studied under a Fellowship at the Graduate School of Mathematics at Yale University.

Carl A. Hess (age 56) - Mr. Hess has served as the Head of Investment, Risk and Reinsurance since October 27, 2016. Previously, Mr. Hess served as the Co-Head of North America at Willis Towers Watson since January 4, 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Hess served as Managing Director, The Americas of Towers Watson since February 1, 2014, and before that, he served as the Managing Director of Towers Watson’s Investment business since January 1, 2010. Before his service at Towers Watson, Mr. Hess worked in a variety of roles for over 20 years at Watson Wyatt, lastly as Global Practice Director of Watson Wyatt’s Investment business. Mr. Hess is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries and the Conference of Consulting Actuaries, and a Chartered Enterprise Risk Analyst. He has a bachelor’s degree cum laude in Logic and Language from Yale University.

Todd Jones (age 53) - Mr. Jones has served as the Head of Corporate Risk and Broking since October 27, 2016. Previously, Mr. Jones served as the Co-Head of North America at Willis Towers Watson since January 4, 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Jones served as an executive officer and Chief Executive Officer of Willis North America since July 1, 2013. Mr. Jones joined Willis in 2003 as the North American Practice Leader for Willis’ Executive Risks Practice and served as the President of Willis North America from 2010 to 2013. Mr. Jones also served as a National Partner for the Northeast Region. Prior to joining Willis, Mr. Jones held various leadership roles in the insurance brokerage industry. Before entering the brokerage industry, he was a financial analyst and corporate banker for a regional bank that is now part of Wells Fargo. He holds a bachelor’s degree in Business from Wake Forest University and an M.B.A. from the Stern School of Business at New York University.

Paul G. Morris (age 53) - Mr. Morris has served as Head of Western Europe at Willis Towers Watson since January 4, 2016. Previously, Mr. Morris served as Managing Director for Towers Watson in Europe, the Middle East and Africa since September 1, 2011. Prior to that, Mr. Morris served as Director, Consulting Services, for Towers Watson beginning January 1, 2010. Mr. Morris served as a Managing Consultant of Watson Wyatt from 2005 until the consummation of the merger of Towers Perrin and Watson Wyatt. He joined The Wyatt Company in 1988. Following the establishment of the global Watson Wyatt Worldwide alliance in 1995, Mr. Morris served as a Senior Consultant of Watson Wyatt Partners from 1995 through 1999 and became a partner in 1999. Mr. Morris is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries, a Member of the Institute of Actuaries, and has a bachelor’s degree in Applied Mathematics from Harvard College and an M.Sc. in Applied Mathematics from Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.

15

Anne Pullum (age 35) - Ms. Pullum has served as the Chief Administrative Officer and Head of Strategy and Innovation at Willis Towers Watson since October 27, 2016. Beginning on January 4, 2016, Ms. Pullum served as Willis Towers Watson’s Head of Strategy, where she has played a key role in determining the Company’s strategy and worked across all business segments and functional areas. Previously, Ms. Pullum served as the Head of Strategy for Willis Group since May 2014. Before joining Willis, Ms. Pullum worked at McKinsey & Company, where she served financial services and natural resource clients since October 2010. Prior to that, Ms. Pullum conducted economic research at Greenspan Associates in Washington, D.C. and served as an analyst in the Goldman Sachs Equities Division in London. Ms. Pullum holds an M.B.A. from INSEAD and a bachelor’s degree in International Economics from Georgetown University’s School of Foreign Service. 

David Shalders (age 51) - Mr. Shalders has served as Operations and Technology Director at Willis Towers Watson since January 4, 2016. Previously, Mr. Shalders served as an executive officer and Group Operations & Technology Director of Willis Group Holdings since November 4, 2013. Prior to joining Willis, Mr. Shalders spent over a decade in senior operations and IT roles at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group, most recently as Global COO for Global Banking and Markets. Mr. Shalders also held roles as Head of London & Asia Operations and Head of Derivative Operations for NatWest at RBS. Prior to RBS, Mr. Shalders held various IT and Operations leadership roles at Accenture, JP Morgan and SG Warburg. He has an M.A. in Geography from Cambridge University and an M.Sc. in Computer Science from The London School of Economics.

Gene H. Wickes (age 65) - Mr. Wickes has served as the Head of Benefits Delivery and Administration (formerly Exchange Solutions) at Willis Towers Watson since April 1, 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Wickes served as an Executive Sponsor of the combined Willis Towers Watson Merger integration team since January 4, 2016. Previously, he served as the Managing Director of the Benefits business segment of Towers Watson from January 1, 2010 until the closing of the Willis Towers Watson merger. Prior to that, he served as the Global Director of the Benefits Practice of Watson Wyatt beginning in 2005 and as a member of Watson Wyatt’s Board of Directors from 2002 to 2007. Mr. Wickes was Watson Wyatt’s Global Retirement Practice Director in 2004 and the U.S. West Division’s Retirement Practice Leader from 1997 to 2004. Mr. Wickes joined Watson Wyatt in 1996 as a senior consultant and consulting actuary. Prior to joining Watson Wyatt, he spent 18 years with Towers Perrin, where he assisted organizations with welfare, retirement, and executive benefit issues. Mr. Wickes is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries and a member of the Conference of Consulting Actuaries, and has a B.S. in Mathematics and Economics, an M.S. in Mathematics and an M.S. in Economics, all from Brigham Young University.

Board of Directors

A list of the Board of Directors of the Company and their principal occupations is provided below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS