Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

The Company’s fiscal 2011 financial information is summarized in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the related Notes. The following background is essential to more fully understand the Company’s financial information.  

Patterson operates a distribution business in three complementary markets: dental supply, veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply. Historically the Company’s strategy for growth focused on internal growth and the acquisition of smaller distributors and businesses offering related products and services to the dental market. In fiscal 2002, the Company expanded its strategy to take advantage of a parallel growth opportunity in the veterinary supply market by acquiring the assets of J. A. Webster, Inc. on July 9, 2001. The Company added a third component to its business platform in fiscal 2004 when it entered the rehabilitation supply market with the acquisition of AbilityOne Products Corp. (“AbilityOne”) on September 12, 2003. AbilityOne is now known as Patterson Medical.  

Operating margins of the veterinary business are considerably lower than the dental and rehabilitation supply businesses. While operating expenses run at a lower rate in the veterinary business, its gross margin is substantially lower. A major contributor to this margin differential results from the high concentration of pharmaceutical products distributed by the veterinary business, which are sold at margins well below the average for other consumable products.  

There are several important aspects of the Company’s business that are useful in analyzing the Company, including: (1) market growth in the various markets it operates; (2) internal growth; (3) growth through acquisition; and (4) continued focus on controlling costs and enhancing efficiency. Management defines “internal growth” as the increase in net sales from period to period, excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, and excluding the net sales, for a period of twelve months following the transaction date, of businesses that it has acquired.  

The Company operates with a 52-53 week accounting convention with its fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in April. Fiscal year 2011 included 53 weeks, while fiscal years ending in 2010 and 2009 were both comprised of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2012 will be comprised of 52 weeks.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share. A quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share was paid throughout fiscal 2011, except in the fourth quarter when the dividend was increased to $0.12 per share. Total dividends declared in fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were $50 million and $12 million, respectively. The Company expects to continue paying a quarterly cash dividend into the foreseeable future.  

During fiscal 2011, the Company repurchased approximately 3.3 million shares of its common stock at a cost of approximately $99 million. Through these repurchases and the cash dividends, the Company returned nearly $149 million of cash to its shareholders.  

With respect to the Company’s Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”), allocations to employees have been made almost entirely from shares of Company stock acquired in 1990. Although the accounting standards in effect in 1990 were subsequently revised, the accounting for the shares acquired in 1990 was grandfathered under the revised standards. The accounting for the 1990 shares called for the expensing of shares released for allocation to employees to be based on the original cost of the shares acquired. The revised standards require the expensing of shares released based on fair market value at the time the shares are committed to be released.  

Since the revision of the accounting standards, the ESOP has acquired additional shares, nearly all of which are still held for future allocation employees. As the final allocation of the shares acquired in 1990 was made at the end of fiscal 2011, the ESOP shares that will be contributed to employees in fiscal 2012 and beyond will result in a non-cash expense equal to the fair market value of the shares when released.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Based on the Company’s best estimate of a competitive ESOP contribution to employees in fiscal 2012, we estimate the non-cash ESOP expense will increase our operating expenses by approximately $23 million and $0.12 per share in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. While this expense does create a comparability discrepancy between the Company’s past and foreseeable future, it does not change the Company’s underlying cash generation ability or the fundamentals of the business.  

Results of Operations   

The following table summarizes the consolidated results of operations over the past three fiscal years as a percent of sales:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010  

Net Sales. Consolidated net sales in fiscal 2011 were $3,415.7 million, an increase of 5.5% from $3,237.4 million in fiscal 2010. The growth in sales includes a 2.1% contribution from acquisitions and a 0.4% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency translation rates. Each of the business units continued to be impacted by the weakness in the general economy during fiscal 2011. Fiscal 2011 also included an additional or fifty-third week due to the Company’s fiscal year convention of ending on the last Saturday in April. It is difficult to quantify the exact impact of this additional week, but estimates have been provided in those areas where it is possible to make reasonable approximations. We estimate that the impact of the extra week on consolidated sales was approximately one and a half percent.  

Dental segment sales in fiscal 2011 rose 3.2% to $2,236.1 million from $2,167.5 million in fiscal 2010. Acquisitions added 0.1% to sales and the impact of currency translation rates was a favorable 0.7%. Consumable sales increased 3.2%, although they were affected by uneven patient demand for dental services as a result of the weak economy. While the economic recovery has been slow, we believe the fundamentals of the North American dental market continued to strengthen as fiscal 2011 progressed.  

Dental equipment and software sales increased 3.6% in fiscal 2011 to $734.7 million. Sales of basic dental equipment and software grew 5.4%, led by sales of digital sensors and cone beam and panoramic imaging systems. Sales of CEREC® dental restorative systems declined 2.4%.  

As market fundamentals have started to improve, we believe dentists have gradually become more confident about investing in their practices. In addition, we implemented additional marketing programs at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. These two factors helped in reaching equipment sales growth of 11.2% in the fourth quarter. We believe we are rebuilding sales momentum and are forcasting stronger equipment sales growth for fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011, however, our equipment sales may experience quarterly fluctuations as they have historically, given the sales cycles related to these capital expenditures and the potential impact of prevailing economic conditions.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Other dental sales, consisting primarily of technical service parts and labor, software support services and artificial teeth, increased 2.0% in fiscal 2011.  

Webster Veterinary sales grew 4.9% to $674.9 million. Sales of consumables were 4.0% higher in fiscal 2011 and equipment and software sales of $34.3 million represented an increase of 16.8% compared to fiscal 2010. The Veterinary equipment business has been growing at solid rates in recent quarters, and we intend to continue investing in this relatively new portion of Webster’s operation that has expanded the unit’s full-service platform. Due to a change in distribution by a major pharmaceutical company at the beginning of calendar 2010, Webster’s consumable sales growth was negatively impacted during the first two-thirds of the fiscal year. A higher percentage of doses sold during this period were under agency agreements as compared to the prior year where more doses were sold under buy-sell agreements. Under agency agreements, Webster reports a small commission for each dose sold, while under a buy-sell agreement, the full transaction value of the dose is recorded as revenue. This impact was estimated to be approximately three percentage points during the period.  

Patterson Medical sales of $504.7 million were 18.4% higher than fiscal 2010. Acquisitions, primarily those from the health care business of DCC plc (“DCC”), contributed 15.3% of sales growth. Internally generated sales growth, which excludes the contribution of acquisitions and a 0.4% negative impact from foreign currency translation rates, was 3.5% in fiscal 2011.  

Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin was 33.5% in fiscal 2011 and 33.7% in fiscal 2010.  

The Dental segment’s gross margin decreased 30 basis points to 36.5% in fiscal 2011. Lower vendor rebates and a higher level of promotional activities as compared to fiscal 2010 contributed to the decline.  

Gross margin of the Veterinary unit was 19.3%, a decrease of 20 basis points from 19.5% in fiscal 2010. Price increases on a line of pharmaceutical products by a manufacturer and lower vendor rebates were primary factors of the decline in gross margin.  

Patterson Medical’s gross margin of its historical operations expanded during fiscal 2011; however, these improvements were offset by lower gross margins of the operations acquired from DCC, which carried lower gross margins than Patterson Medical’s historical business. For the year, gross margin declined 10 basis points to 39.1%.  

Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio in fiscal 2011 was 22.5%, or 20 basis points lower than fiscal 2010.  

The Dental unit’s operating expense ratio decreased 30 basis points, reflecting expense controls and leverage gained from higher sales on fixed costs.  

The ratio of the Veterinary unit’s operating expenses as a percent of sales decreased 80 basis points, due to leverage on higher sales and cost savings from the further integration of the October, 2008 Columbus Serum acquisition. Those integration activities were completed in fiscal 2011.  

Patterson Medical’s operating expense ratio temporarily increased 80 basis points in fiscal 2011 due to the direct costs of the transaction and the cost structure of the assets acquired from DCC. Integration activities throughout the year were largely complete at the end of fiscal 2011 and are expected to result in a lower cost of operations for the acquired businesses in fiscal 2012.  

Operating Income. Operating income was $376.0 million in fiscal 2011, or 5.8% higher compared to $355.3 million in fiscal 2010. Operating margin was 11.0% in fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Interest Expense. Interest expense was $25.8 million in fiscal 2011 compared to $25.7 million in fiscal 2010.  

Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, was $5.7 million in fiscal 2011 compared to $9.4 million in fiscal 2010. The decrease was due to losses related to the Veterinary unit’s equity interest in VetSource. Interest income totaled $8.2 million in fiscal 2011, compared to $8.6 million in fiscal 2010.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 36.7% in fiscal 2011 as compared to 37.4% in fiscal 2010. A portion of the dividends paid on shares held by our Employee Stock Ownership Plan are deductible on the Company’s income tax return. As there were more dividends paid in fiscal 2011 than in fiscal 2010, the deductible amount was larger, resulting in a lower effective income tax rate in fiscal 2011.  

Net Income and Earnings Per Share. Net income increased 6.2% to $225.4 million in fiscal 2011 due primarily to the increase in operating income as discussed above. Earnings per diluted share and dilutive shares outstanding were $1.89 and 119.1 million, respectively, in fiscal 2011 and $1.78 and 119.2 million, respectively, in fiscal 2010.  

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009  

Net Sales. Fiscal 2010 consolidated sales were $3,237.4 million, an increase of 4.6% compared to $3,094.2 million in fiscal 2009. Acquisitions contributed 4.1% to sales growth, resulting mostly from acquisitions by the veterinary and rehabilitation units. Fluctuations in foreign currency translation rates contributed 0.4% to sales growth. During both fiscal 2010 and 2009, sales at each of our business units were adversely affected by the recession and slow economic recovery.  

Sales of our consolidated dental supply unit were $2,167.5 million, a decrease of 0.3% from $2,174.4 million in fiscal 2009. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates related to our dental operations in Canada and the contribution from acquisitions had a favorable impact on fiscal 2010 sales of 0.6% and 0.7%, respectively. Sales of dental consumable supplies decreased 0.2% to $1,214.8 million. Beginning late in the first half of fiscal 2009 and continuing throughout fiscal 2010, the sales of consumables were affected by reduced discretionary spending and high levels of unemployment resulting from the general economic conditions, particularly in the United States.  

Dental equipment sales declined 3.0% in fiscal 2010 to $709.5 million. We believe the weak economy caused many dental practitioners to focus their investment dollars on equipment with rapid and high rates of return. Sales of basic equipment were 7.5% lower in fiscal 2010, while sales of CEREC® 3D dental restorative systems rose 15.7%. Within the basic equipment category, certain technology products with rapid rates of return such as digital imaging systems (sensors, panoramic and cone beam units) outperformed core equipment such as chairs, power units and cabinetry.  

Other dental sales, consisting primarily of technical service parts and labor, software support services and artificial teeth, grew 7.7% in fiscal 2010.  

Sales of Webster Veterinary grew 16.9% to $643.6 million. Acquisitions, primarily the Columbus Serum Company (“Columbus”) acquired in October 2008, contributed 11.5% of the sales growth. Internally generated sales rose 5.4%.  

Patterson Medical sales of $426.3 million were 15.5% higher than fiscal 2009. Acquisitions, primarily those of Mobilis Healthcare Group (“Mobilis”) late in fiscal 2009 and Empi Therapy Solutions (“Empi”) in June 2009, contributed 13.4% of the sales growth. Internally generated sales growth, which excludes the contribution of acquisitions and a 0.3% negative impact related to foreign currency translation rates, was 2.4% in fiscal 2010.  

Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin was 33.7% in both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009.  

The Dental segment’s gross margin improved 40 basis points to 36.8% in fiscal 2010, largely due to product mix. Core equipment such as chairs, units and lights, generally have a lower gross margin than newer, technology related equipment.  

Gross margin of the Veterinary unit was unchanged at 19.5%.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Patterson Medical’s gross margin declined 30 basis points due primarily to the Mobilis and Empi acquisitions which carry lower gross margins than Patterson Medical’s historical business.  

Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio in fiscal 2010 was 22.7%, or 20 basis points higher than fiscal 2009. In the second half of fiscal 2009 and continuing throughout fiscal 2010, the Company took steps involving a range of cost control initiatives including a hiring freeze except in the area of sales representatives, a wage freeze and restrictions on travel and other more discretionary expenses. In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company enacted company-wide salary reductions. While these measures have slowed expense growth, their impact was lessened by acquisition-related expenses, including amortization expense, and higher levels of incentive compensation based on achievement of operating targets for the current year.  

The Dental unit’s operating expense ratio increased 40 basis points, reflecting increased fixed costs on lower sales volume and acquisition-related expense.  

The ratio of the Veterinary unit’s operating expenses as a percent of sales improved 10 basis points, primarily due to leverage on higher sales.  

Patterson Medical’s operating expense ratio increased 70 basis points in fiscal 2010 due primarily to the cost structure of recent acquisitions.  

Operating Income. Operating income was $355.3 million in fiscal 2010, or 2.6% higher compared to $346.2 million in fiscal 2009. Operating margin was 11.0% and 11.2% in fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively, as increases in semi-variable and fixed costs outpaced revenue growth causing the de-leveraging of the expense structure.  

Interest Expense. Interest expense was $25.7 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $30.1 million in fiscal 2009. The $4.4 million decrease in interest expense is due primarily to $130 million of scheduled debt payments made in November 2008.  

Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, was $9.4 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $3.6 million in fiscal 2009. Interest income increased $3.1 million due primarily to higher levels of finance contracts held during fiscal 2010. Besides higher interest income, other income was $0.9 million, a change of $2.7 million from the loss of $1.8 million in fiscal 2009, due primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency rates.  

Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 37.4% in fiscal 2010 as compared to 37.5% in fiscal 2009.  

Net Income and Earnings Per Share. Net income increased 6.3% to $212.3 million in fiscal 2010 due to increases in operating income and other income, net as discussed above. Earnings per diluted share and dilutive shares outstanding were $1.78 and 119.2 million, respectively, in fiscal 2010 and $1.69 and 118.4 million, respectively, in fiscal 2009.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Patterson’s operating cash flow has been the Company’s principal source of liquidity in the last three fiscal years. During fiscal 2009 and in early fiscal 2010, the Company used its revolving credit facility periodically as a source of liquidity in addition to operating cash flow.  

Operating activities generated cash of $262.6 million in fiscal 2011, compared to $265.5 million in fiscal 2010 and $124.0 million in fiscal 2009. In the second half of fiscal 2009, the Company invested in a financing program to support marketing efforts directed at the CEREC® product line. This promotion, which ended at the close of fiscal 2009, had generated approximately $98 million of finance contracts that the Company could not immediately sell to its funding sources due to certain requirements in those funding arrangements. In fiscal 2011 and 2010, the Company invested in similar financing programs, but to a lesser degree.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Capital expenditures were $36.9, $29.8 and $32.3 million in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Significant expenditures in these years included the purchase and expansion of distribution facilities to accommodate multiple business units, the construction of a new facility for the Patterson Technology Center, the expansion of our general office building and continuing investments in information systems. In fiscal 2011, a project to build-out a purchased distribution center in Indiana has progressed and is operational for one business unit. In fiscal 2012, the remainder of the build-out will be completed and the building will serve as a distribution facility used by all three business units. This facility is replacing several smaller distribution facilities that have been or will be closed. In addition, the majority of the construction of a new building for the Patterson Technology facility in Illinois took place in fiscal 2011. This 100,000 square foot state-of-the-art facility will replace a nearby leased location and is expected to open in the second quarter of fiscal 2012. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 will include the interior furnishings for this facility.  

The Company expects to invest approximately $30 million in capital expenditures during fiscal 2012, including investments in information systems and the completion of the Indiana distribution facility build-out and Patterson Technology facility projects discussed above.  

Cash used for acquisitions and equity investments totaled $52.2 million in fiscal 2011, $53.7 million in fiscal 2010 and $124.8 million in fiscal 2009. The majority of the cash used for acquisitions in fiscal 2011 was related to the acquisition of the entities of DCC plc. The acquisition of the rehabilitation products business of Empi, Inc. and the investment in VetSource accounted for the majority of the cash used in fiscal 2010 and the acquisitions of Columbus, Dolphin, and Mobilis accounted for the majority of the cash used in fiscal 2009.  

There were neither issuances of, nor principal payments on, debt during fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2010, the Company fully paid the $22 million that was outstanding under a revolving credit facility at the end of fiscal 2009. A maximum of $300 million is available under this facility which expires in fiscal 2013. Payments on long-term debt in fiscal 2009 were $130 million and related to a scheduled retirement of debt that had been issued in fiscal 2004.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company declared and paid an initial quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share. In fiscal 2011, the Company continued to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share for the first three quarters, which was increased to $0.12 per share in the fourth quarter. Total dividends paid in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 were $50.0 million and $11.9 million, respectively. In addition, during fiscal 2011 the Company repurchased approximately 3.3 million shares of its common stock for approximately $99 million. Under a share repurchase plan authorized by the board of directors, as of April 30, 2011, the Company may repurchase up to an additional 23.1 million shares of its common stock. This authorization remains in effect through March 15, 2016.  

The Company expects to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend and to return a portion of its excess cash to shareholders through additional repurchases of its common stock under the current authorization discussed above. While there are no assurances as to the level of repurchases in the future, the Company expects to use approximately $100 million to repurchase its common stock during fiscal 2012.  

Management expects funds generated from operations and existing cash to be sufficient to meet the Company’s working capital needs for the next fiscal year. The Company expects to continue to obtain liquidity from the sale of its equipment finance contracts. In addition, as of April 30, 2011, $300 million is available under a revolving credit facility. The Company’s existing debt facilities are believed to be adequate as a supplement to internally generated cash flows to fund anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives, including acquisitions.  

The Company sells a significant portion of its finance contracts to a commercial paper funded conduit managed by a third party bank, and as a result, commercial paper is indirectly an important source of liquidity for the Company. The Company is allowed to participate in the conduit due to the quality of its finance contracts and  

38  

Table of Contents 

 its financial strength. Cash flow could be impaired if the Company’s financial strength diminished to a level that precluded the Company from taking part in this facility or other similar facilities. Also, market conditions outside of the Company’s control could adversely affect the ability of the Company to sell the contracts.  

Customer Financing Arrangements  

The Company is a party to two arrangements under which it has sold finance contracts it receives from its customers to outside financial institutions. These arrangements have provided sources of liquidity for the Company that would have to be replaced should each of the current financial institutions be unable or unwilling to continue in the arrangements. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, one agreement with a group of banks led by U.S. Bank National Association with capacity of $110 million was amended such that no additional contracts will be sold under the arrangement. At the same time, the Company’s other agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A was amended to increase capacity from $367 million to $550 million.  

In December 2010, the agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. was amended and restated and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. became the managing agent under the amended agreement. As of April 30, 2011, the capacity under this agreement is $500 million. The Company’s financing business is described in further detail in Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Note 6, “Customer Financing”, discusses the nature and business purpose of the arrangements and the activity under each arrangement during fiscal 2011, including the amount of finance contracts sold and the holdback receivable owed to the Company.  

Contractual Obligations  

A summary of the Company’s contractual obligations as of April 30, 2011 follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As discussed in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company adopted the provisions of ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes” related to uncertainty in income taxes at the beginning of fiscal 2008. The Company is unable to determine its contractual obligations by year related to this pronouncement, as the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of its reserves for income taxes cannot be reasonably estimated. The total liability for unrecognized tax benefits including interest and penalties at April 30, 2011, is $21.9 million.  

For a more complete description of our contractual obligations, see Notes 7 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Outlook  

Over the last ten years, the Company has been able to grow revenue and earnings through its strategy of emphasizing its value-added, full-service capabilities, using technology to enhance customer service, continuing to improve operating efficiencies, and growing through internal expansion as well as from acquisitions. While we believe that the weakness in the general economy that has existed during much of fiscal 2011 and 2010 will continue to affect our performance for at least the near term, the Company’s strategy will continue to focus on these key elements. With strong operating cash flow and available credit capacity, the Company is confident that it will be able to financially support its future growth. The Company believes that the strategic initiatives that it has implemented in the past several years, as well as those that will be implemented in fiscal 2012 and beyond,  

39  

Table of Contents 

 will strengthen the Company’s operational platform and contribute to future growth. Given these factors, the Company considers itself well positioned to capitalize upon the growth opportunities in the dental supply, companion-pet veterinary supply and the worldwide rehabilitation supply markets.  

Asset Management  

The following table summarizes the Company’s days sales outstanding (DSO) and inventory turnover the past three fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Receivables as of April 30, 2011 and April 24, 2010 include approximately $19 and $63 million, respectively, of finance contracts received from customers related to certain financing promotions in fiscal 2011 and 2010. The Company has sold contracts in fiscal 2011 and expects to sell the contracts held as of April 30, 2011 to outside institutions under an existing agreement during fiscal 2012. If these finance contracts are excluded from the calculation of DSO, the pro forma DSO would be 46 and 44 as of April 30, 2011 and April 24, 2010.  

 (2) The inventory values used in this calculation are the LIFO inventory values for all inventories except for manufactured inventories and foreign inventories, which are valued using FIFO inventory methods.  

Foreign Operations  

Foreign sales are derived primarily from Patterson Dental and Patterson Medical operations in Canada and from Patterson Medical’s operations in the U.K., France and Australia. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have not significantly impacted earnings. However, changes in exchange rates enhanced net sales in fiscal 2011 and 2010, and adversely affected net sales in fiscal 2009. Without foreign currency effects, net sales would have been $12.4 million lower, $11.5 million lower, and $33.4 million higher in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Changes in currency exchange rates are a risk accompanying foreign operations, but this risk is not considered material with respect to the consolidated operations of the Company.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The Company has adopted various accounting policies to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes that the Company’s policies are conservative and its philosophy is to adopt accounting policies that minimize the risk of adverse events having a material impact on recorded assets and liabilities. However, the preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and judgments regarding the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities based on the information available to management at the time. Changes subsequent to the preparation of the financial statements in economic, technological and competitive conditions may materially impact the recorded values of the Company’s assets and liabilities. Therefore, the users of the financial statements should read all the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and be aware that conditions currently unknown to management may develop in the future. This may require a material adjustment to a recorded asset or liability to consistently apply the Company’s significant accounting principles and policies that are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial performance and condition of the Company may also be materially impacted by transactions and events that the Company has not previously experienced and for which the Company has not been required to establish an accounting policy or adopt a generally accepted accounting principle.  

Revenue Recognition—Revenues are generated from the sale of consumable products, equipment, software products and services, technical service parts and labor, freight and delivery charges, and other sources.  

40  

Table of Contents 

 Revenues are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed and final, and there is reasonable assurance of collection of the sale. Estimates for returns, damaged goods, rebates, loyalty programs and other revenue allowances are made at the time the revenue is recognized based on the historical experience for such items.  

Consumable product sales are recorded upon delivery, except in those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point.  

Equipment and software product revenues are recognized upon delivery and, if necessary, installation. In those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point, revenues are recognized when products are transferred to the shipping carrier. Revenue derived from post contract customer support for software is deferred and recognized ratably over the period in which the support is provided.  

Revenue for arrangements with multiple deliverables meeting the criteria for a separate unit of accounting use the relative fair value method and revenue is recognized for each deliverable in accordance with applicable revenue recognition criteria.  

Other revenue including freight and delivery charges and technical service parts and labor is recognized when the related product revenue is recognized or when the product or services are provided to the customer.  

Patterson Advantage® Loyalty Program—Patterson Dental provides a point-based awards program to qualifying customers involving the issuance of “Patterson Advantage® dollars” which can be used toward equipment and technology purchases. The program was initiated on January 1, 2009 and runs on a calendar year schedule. Patterson Advantage® dollars earned during a program year expire one year after the end of the program year. The cost and corresponding liability associated with the program are recognized as contra-revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 605-50, “Revenue Recognition-Customer Payments and Incentives.” As of April 30, 2011, the Company does not have sufficient experience with the program to reasonably estimate the amount of Patterson Advantage® dollars that will not be redeemed and thus has recorded a liability for the maximum potential amount that could be redeemed. Actual redemptions could differ from our estimates, resulting in an adjustment to revenues.  

Inventory and Reserves—Inventory consists primarily of merchandise held for sale and is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for all inventories, except for foreign inventories and manufactured inventories, which are valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company continually assesses the valuation of our inventories and reduces the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of our forecasted usage to estimated realizable value. Estimates are made of the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements.  

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets—Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets include copyrights, trade names and trademarks.  

Goodwill for each reporting unit is evaluated using a two-step impairment test at the reporting unit level. The Company has three reporting units at April 30, 2011, which are the same as our operating units. The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the book value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, with its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed to determine the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recorded. The determination of fair value involves uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry and economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. The Company conducts impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of  

41  

Table of Contents 

 present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. Additionally, in assessing goodwill for impairment, we consider the reasonableness of the implied control premium based on market capitalizations and recent market transactions.  

We assess other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by comparing the carrying value of an asset with its fair value. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. The determination of fair value involves assumptions, including projected revenues and gross profit levels, as well as consideration of any factors that may indicate potential impairment.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, management completed its annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests and determined there was no impairment. Although the Company believes our estimates and assumptions used in estimating cash flows and determining fair value are reasonable, making material changes to such estimates and assumptions could materially affect such impairment analyses and our financial results, including an impairment charge that could be material.  

Long-Lived Assets—Long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such assets. The Company’s definite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of an exclusive distribution agreement and customer lists. When impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value.  

Income Taxes—The Company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes.  

During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the Company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the Company’s belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the Company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. The Company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made and could materially affect our financial results.  

To the extent that the provision for income taxes would have increased/decreased by 1 percent of income before taxes, consolidated net income would have decreased/increased $3.6 million in fiscal 2011.  

Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets if, after assessment of available positive and negative evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be fully realized. The valuation allowance reflected in the footnote disclosure relates to net operating loss carryforwards of Mobilis Healthcare Group, acquired during fiscal 2009 and principally based in the United Kingdom.  

Self-insurance—The Company is self-insured for certain losses related to general liability, product liability, automobile, workers’ compensation and medical claims. The Company estimates a liability based upon an analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. While we believe our current estimates are reasonable based on information currently available, actual results could differ and affect our financial results due to changes in the amount or frequency of claims, medical cost inflation or other factors. Historically, actual results related to these types of claims have not varied significantly from estimated amounts.  

Stock-based Compensation—The Company recognizes stock-based compensation based on certain assumptions including inputs within the Black-Scholes Model and estimated forfeitures. These assumptions require subjective judgment and changes in the assumptions can materially affect fair value estimates.  

42  

Table of Contents 

 Management assesses the assumptions and methodologies used to estimate forfeitures and to calculate estimated fair value of stock-based compensation on a regular basis. Circumstances may change, and additional data may become available over time, which could result in changes to these assumptions and methodologies and thereby materially impact our fair value determination or estimates of forfeitures. If factors change and the Company employs different assumptions, the amount of compensation expense associated with stock-based compensation may differ significantly from what was recorded in the current period.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance codified into ASC Topic No. 860, “Transfers and Servicing” (ASC 860) which amends the derecognition guidance in former FASB Statement No. 140 and eliminates the exemption from consolidation for qualifying special-purpose entities. Also in June 2009, the FASB issued guidance codified into ASC Topic No. 810, “Consolidation” (ASC 810) which amends the consolidation guidance applicable to variable interest entities. The amendments significantly affected the overall consolidation analysis under former FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). Both ASC 860 and ASC 810 were effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. See Note 6 to the financial statements for information regarding the Company’s accounting under this guidance.  

In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-13, “Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements” (ASU 2009-13). This update amends ASC Topic 605-25, “Revenue Recognition—Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements” to remove the criterion that entities must use objective and reliable evidence of fair value in separately accounting for deliverables and provides entities with a hierarchy of evidence that must be considered when allocating arrangement consideration. The update also requires entities to allocate arrangement consideration to the separate units of accounting based on the deliverables’ relative selling price. ASU 2009-13 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, unless the election is made to adopt ASU 2009-13 retrospectively. ASU 2009-13 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-14, “Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements” (ASU 2009-14). This update modifies the scope of the software revenue recognition guidance to exclude (a) non-software components of tangible products and (b) software components of tangible products that are sold, licensed, or leased with tangible products when the software components and non-software components of the tangible product function together to deliver the product’s functionality. ASU 2009-14 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, unless the election is made to adopt ASU 2009-14 retrospectively. ASU 2009-14 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Factors That May Affect Future Operating Results  

Certain information of a non-historical nature contained in Items 1, 2, 3 and 7 of this Form 10-K include forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “expects,” “plans,” “estimates,” “intends” and variations of such words are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. The statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties or assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, the Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following important factors, among others, could cause the Company’s actual operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. The factors listed under this caption are intended to serve as cautionary statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following information is not intended to limit in any way the characterization of other statements or information under other captions as cautionary statements for such purpose. The order in which such factors appear below should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.  

   •    Economic conditions and volatility in the financial markets could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  

43  

Table of Contents 

   •    The Company’s ability to meet increased competition from national, regional and local full-service distributors and mail-order distributors of dental, veterinary and rehabilitation products, while maintaining current or improved profit margins.  

   •    The ability of the Company to effectuate modifications to the business models of its three operating units to address changes in the individual markets of those business units.  

   •    The ability of the Company to consolidate the distribution, information services, human resources, financial and other administrative functions of its three business units jointly shared services which meet the needs of the individual business units.  

   •    The ability of the Company to manage rapidly changing energy and commodity prices.  

   •    The ability of the Company to retain its base of customers and to increase its market share.  

   •    The ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified and motivated sales personnel.  

   •    The ability of the Company to provide for an orderly management succession, including the ability to recruit skilled personnel for the business, and then identify and train our personnel for their transition into key roles to support the long-term growth of the business.  

   •    The continued ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with key vendors and the ability of the Company to create relationships with additional manufacturers of quality, innovative products.  

   •    Changes in the economics of dentistry affecting dental practice growth and the demand for dental products, including the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology diagnostic and therapeutic products.  

   •    Reduced growth in expenditures for dental services by private dental insurance plans.  

   •    The accuracy of the Company’s assumptions concerning future per capita expenditures for dental services, including assumptions as to population growth and the demand for preventive and specialty dental services such as periodontic, endodontic and orthodontic procedures.  

   •    The rate of growth in demand for infection control products currently used for prevention of the spread of communicable diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis and herpes.  

   •    Changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets.  

   •    The effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation, which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitation and assistive products.  

   •    Acquisitions of businesses could negatively impact our profitability and return on invested capital.  

   •    Our international operations are subject to risks that could adversely affect our operating results.  

   •    We sell products that could be subject to market and technological obsolescence.  

   •    Audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.  

   •    We are subject to a variety of litigation that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

   •    We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired.  

   •    We are exposed to the risk of changes in interest rates.  

   •    Certain U.S. and foreign laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business.  

44  

Table of Contents 

 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK