Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

You should read the following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of NASDAQ OMX in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K, as well as the discussion under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Overview  

We are a leading global exchange group that delivers trading, clearing, exchange technology, securities listing, and public company services across six continents. Our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, market data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, financial services and market technology products and services. Our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting cash equity trading, derivatives trading, clearing, settlement and many other functions.  

On February 27, 2008, Nasdaq and OMX AB combined their businesses and Nasdaq was renamed The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. Under the purchase method of accounting, Nasdaq was treated as the accounting and legal acquirer in the business combination with OMX AB. We also completed our acquisitions of PHLX in July 2008, BSX in August 2008, certain businesses of Nord Pool in October 2008, the assets of North American Energy Credit and Clearing Corp. in March 2010, Nord Pool in May 2010, SMARTS in August 2010, as well as FTEN and ZVM in December 2010. These acquisitions also have been treated as purchases for accounting purposes, with NASDAQ OMX treated as the acquirer. Additionally, we purchased a majority stake in IDCG in December 2008 and a 22% equity interest in EMCF in January 2009. The financial results of these transactions are included in the consolidated financial results beginning on the date of each acquisition or strategic initiative.  

Financial Highlights  

The comparability of our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009 to the same period in 2008 is significantly impacted by our business combination with OMX AB as well as the acquisition of PHLX and the acquisition of Nord Pool’s derivatives, clearing and consulting subsidiaries. In our discussion and analysis of results of operations, we have quantified the contribution of additional revenues or expenses resulting from the operations of OMX, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NASDAQ OMX Commodities wherever such amounts were material. While identified amounts may provide indications of general trends, the analysis cannot completely address the effects attributable to integration efforts.  

In addition, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar impacted our operating results. Impacts associated with fluctuations in foreign currency are discussed in more detail under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 33.9% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 26.4% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Swedish Krona, Euro, Norwegian Krone and Danish Krone.  

In countries with currencies other than the U.S. dollar, revenues and expenses are translated using monthly average exchange rates. The following discussion of results of operations isolates the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations to better measure the comparability of operating results between periods. Operating results excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations are calculated by translating the current year’s results by the prior period’s exchange rates.  

The following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the year ended December 31, 2010 when compared with the same period in 2009:  

   •    Revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased $69 million, or 4.7%, to $1,522 million in 2010, compared with $1,453 million in 2009, reflecting an operational increase in revenues of $52 million and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $17 million. The increase in operational revenues was primarily due to:  

45  

Table of Contents 

   •    an increase in total derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $38 million;  

   •    an increase in access services revenues of $29 million;  

   •    an increase in total cash equity revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $9 million;  

   •    an increase in global index group revenues of $8 million; and  

   •    an increase in global listings services revenues of $6 million, partially offset by;  

   •    a decrease in broker service revenues of $18 million;  

   •    a decrease in market data revenues of $13 million;  

   •    a decrease in other market services revenues of $5 million; and  

   •    a decrease in market technology revenues of $1 million.  

   •    Operating expenses increased $41 million, or 4.8%, to $891 million in 2010, compared with $850 million in 2009, reflecting an increase in operating expenses of $27 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million. The operational increase in operating expenses was primarily due to an increase in general, administrative and other expense of $29 million primarily due to a pre-tax charge of $40 million incurred in January 2010 as a result of the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009, partially offset by asset retirements of $10 million in 2009 related to obsolete technology assets.  

   •    Loss on divestiture of businesses was $11 million in 2010. This charge was due to our decision to close the businesses of both NEURO and Agora-X during the second quarter of 2010.  

   •    Net income from unconsolidated investees was $2 million in 2010, compared with a net loss of $107 million in 2009. The net loss for 2009 is primarily due to $87 million of impairment charges ($82 million on our NASDAQ Dubai investment and $5 million on our Agora-X investment), as well as a $19 million loss related to the sale of our share capital in Orc Software AB, or Orc.  

   •    Gain on sales of businesses was $12 million in 2009 and was related to the sale of substantially all of our Carpenter Moore insurance agency business for a gain of $7 million and the sale of our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom for a gain of $5 million.  

   •    Debt conversion expense was $25 million in 2009 and was related to the conversion of most of our 3.75% convertible notes into common stock. The $25 million expense included a cash inducement of $9 million, the then present value of series A convertible preferred stock issued totaling $15 million, and debt issuance and other costs of $1 million.  

These current and prior year items are discussed in more detail below.  

Business Environment  

We serve listed companies, market participants and investors by providing high quality cash equity, derivative and commodities markets, thereby facilitating economic growth and corporate entrepreneurship. We also provide market technology to exchanges and markets around the world. In broad terms, our business performance is impacted by a number of drivers including macroeconomic events affecting the risk and return of financial assets, investor sentiment, government and private sector demands for capital, the regulatory environment for capital markets, and changing technology in the financial services industry. Our future revenues and net income will continue to be influenced by a number of domestic and international economic trends including:  

   •    Trading volumes, particularly in U.S. and Nordic cash equity and derivative securities, which are driven primarily by overall macroeconomic conditions;  

46  

Table of Contents 

   •    The number of companies seeking equity financing, which is affected by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, availability of diverse sources of financing as well as tax and regulatory policies;  

   •    The emergence of new market participants seeking opportunities in the recovering global economy;  

   •    The steady optimism of our technology customers about the outlook for capital markets and economic stability;  

   •    Continuing pressure in transaction fee pricing due to intense competition in the U.S. and Europe;  

   •    Competition for listings and trading related to pricing, product features and service offerings;  

   •    Regulatory changes imposed upon certain types of instruments, transactions, or capital market participants; and  

   •    Technological advancements and members’ demand for speed, efficiency, and reliability.  

Currently our business drivers are defined by investors’ cautious outlook about the pace of global economic recovery, and governments’ ability to fund their sovereign debt. The lack of confidence in the prospects for growth results in sporadic increases in the level of market volatility and lackluster trading volume. Additional impacts on our business drivers include the international enactment and implementation of new legislative and regulatory initiatives, and the continued rapid evolution and deployment of new technology in the financial services industry. The business environment that influenced our financial performance for the full year 2010 may be characterized as follows:  

   •    A considerable increase in the pace of new equity issuance relative to a historically slow 2009 in the U.S. with 89 IPOs on The NASDAQ Stock Market, up from 33 in 2009. IPO activity also increased in the Nordics with 11 IPOs on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic;  

   •    Matched share volume for all our U.S. markets decreased 16.2% relative to 2009 driven by a significant decline in overall U.S. volume and a modest decline in our market share;  

   •    A 34.1% increase relative to 2009 in the number of cash equity transactions on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges driven by increased levels of participant trading as participants increasingly adopt algorithmic trading;  

   •    A 1.6% increase relative to 2009 in the SEK value of cash equity transactions on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges resulting from increased volume levels and higher 12-month equity valuations;  

   •    Growth of 30.1% experienced by our Nordic and Baltic exchanges relative to 2009 in the number of traded and cleared equity and fixed-income contracts (excluding EDX and Eurex) driven by an increase in the number of derivative exchange members and increased market share in competitively listed products;  

   •    Intense competition among U.S. exchanges for both cash equity trading volume and listings, and strong competition between multilateral trading facilities and exchanges in Europe for equity trading volume;  

   •    Globalization of exchanges, customers and competitors extending the competitive horizon beyond national markets; and  

   •    Market trends requiring continued investment in technology to meet customers’ demands for speed, capacity, and reliability as markets adapt to a global financial industry, as increasing numbers of new companies are created, and as emerging countries show ongoing interest in developing their financial markets.  

47  

Table of Contents 

2011 Outlook  

We launched several strategic initiatives during 2010 which should benefit us during the challenging economic environment anticipated for 2011. For the third year in a row, more share value traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market than on any other single cash equities exchange in the world. Our platform continues to stand out as a reliable, flexible, and high capacity system delivering high levels of execution quality and speed under even extremely demanding market conditions. We continued to expand the application of our U.S. INET trading system with the successful launch of a new cash equities trading platform, NASDAQ OMX PSX, in 2010. The NASDAQ OMX PSX model prioritizes trading according to price and order size, thereby offering an exchange alternative to institutional and block traders. The standout performance and flexibility of our technology has enabled us to enter new markets with a low cost and highly regarded platform offering strong performance to both existing and new clients and creating additional sales opportunities for both our Transactions Services and Market Data businesses.  

Our 2009 experiences with launching INET technology on our U.S. exchanges continued in 2010 with the NASDAQ OMX PSX cash equities market. Internationally, we developed and launched Genium INET for the NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic exchanges. By using NASDAQ OMX high performance systems in our major exchanges, the flexibility of INET and Genium INET technology has been demonstrated in both the U.S. and in Europe. The Australian Stock Exchange became our first Genium INET customer in late 2010 and we anticipate that the Singapore Stock Exchange will introduce their Genium INET based platform during 2011.  

We expect global markets to continue to be marked by significant change in 2011. These changes will be driven primarily by regulatory initiatives in the U.S. and Europe as legislation created in the aftermath of the financial crisis is implemented and as the industry reacts to those initiatives. We expect that cash equities markets will continue to fragment into additional venues and trading will continue to migrate from exchanges to OTC systems. Conversely, trading in OTC derivatives will begin to move onto exchanges and other public execution facilities. Our investment in IDCG creates an opportunity for entering the clearing business for interest rate swap products.  

Throughout 2010 there were signs of a recovery in the IPO market and we expect the demand for public equity capital from companies experiencing the return of global economic growth to support further increases in the number of IPOs. Furthermore, an improved outlook for equity investments and the number of private companies seeking capital is expected to add to the IPO pipeline in 2011. We continue to leverage the opportunities in market data brought about by the breadth of NASDAQ OMX’s data distribution capabilities by offering new data products to our customer base and by strengthening our direct relationships with those customers.  

We believe that the year ahead will be positive for our business drivers and our operations as the global economy slowly recovers. We believe that our aggressive steps in meeting our cost, revenue, and technology objectives over the last three years will enable us to benefit from improving economic conditions in 2011. We will continue to look for opportunities to further diversify our business with enhanced product offerings and/or acquisitions that are complementary to our existing businesses.  

Business Segments  

We manage, operate and provide our products and services in three business segments: Market Services, Issuer Services and Market Technology.  

   •    The Market Services segment includes our U.S. and European Transaction Services businesses and our Market Data business, which are interrelated because the Transaction Services businesses generate the quote and trade information that we sell to market participants and data distributors. Market Services also includes our Broker Services business.  

48  

Table of Contents 

   •    The Issuer Services segment includes our Global Listing Services and the Global Index Group businesses. The companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market, our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and NASDAQ OMX First North represent a diverse array of industries. This diversity of companies listed on NASDAQ OMX markets allows us to develop industry-specific and other indexes that we use to develop and license NASDAQ OMX branded indexes, associated derivatives and index products as part of our Global Index Group. The Global Listing Services business also includes our Corporate Solutions business.  

   •    The Market Technology segment delivers technology and services to marketplaces, brokers and regulators throughout the world. Market Technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration, surveillance solutions and advisory services.  

Our management allocates resources, assesses performance and manages these businesses as three separate segments. See Note 18, “Segments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Sources of Revenues and Cost of Revenues  

Market Services Revenues  

Transaction Services  

U.S. Cash Equity Trading  

U.S. cash equity trading revenues are variable, based on individual customer share volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. We charge transaction fees for executing cash equity trades in NASDAQ-listed and other listed securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX as well as on orders that are routed to other market venues for execution.  

For The NASDAQ Stock Market and NASDAQ OMX PSX we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for NASDAQ OMX BX we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. We record these credits as transaction rebates which are included in cost of revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income. These transaction rebates are paid on a monthly basis and the amounts due are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Also, we pay Section 31 fees to the SEC for supervision and regulation of securities markets. We pass these costs along to our customers through our cash equity trading fees. We collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on NASDAQ’s, NASDAQ OMX BX’s and NASDAQ OMX PSX’s platforms and we recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when invoiced. Section 31 fees received are included in cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the SEC is remitted semiannually and recorded as Section 31 fees payable to the SEC in the Consolidated Balance Sheets until paid. Since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. As we hold the cash received until payment to the SEC, we earn interest income on the related cash balances.  

European Cash Equity Trading  

We charge transaction fees for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic. The transaction fee for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic is charged per executed order and as per value traded.  

U.S. Derivative Trading and Clearing  

U.S. derivative trading and clearing revenues are variable, based on traded and cleared volumes, and recognized when executed or when contacts are cleared. The principal types of derivative contracts traded on  

49  

Table of Contents 

 NASDAQ OMX PHLX and The NASDAQ Options Market are equity options, ETF options, index options and currency options. In the U.S., we also operate NFX, which offers trading for currency futures and other financial futures.  

Similar to U.S. cash equity trading, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and record the transaction rebate as a cost of revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Also, we pay Section 31 fees to the SEC for supervision and regulation of securities markets. See “U.S. Cash Equity Trading” above for further discussion.  

Through NOCC, we engage in riskless principal trading of OTC power and gas contracts. Revenues are based on notional amounts or volume of power and gas transacted and/or delivered and are recognized upon settlement of the contracts.  

European Derivative Trading and Clearing  

European derivative trading and clearing revenues are also variable, based on the volume of traded and cleared contracts, and recognized when executed or when contracts are cleared. Derivative trading and clearing is conducted on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen. The principal types of derivative contracts traded are stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. On NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, we offer clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures and index options and futures, by serving as the CCP. In doing so, we guarantee the completion of the transaction and market participants can thereby limit their counterparty risk. We also act as the counterparty for certain OTC contracts.  

On NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, we also offer clearing services for resale and repurchase agreements. Clearing revenues for resale and repurchase agreements are based on the value and length of the contract and are recognized when cleared.  

European derivative trading and clearing revenues also include clearing revenues for commodities. NASDAQ OMX Commodities provides access to the world’s largest power derivatives markets and one of Europe’s largest carbon markets. NASDAQ OMX Commodities offers international power derivatives and carbon products, operates a clearing business and offers consulting services to commodities markets globally. Our clearing revenues from trading transactions on Nord Pool are variable, based on cleared volume, and recognized when contracts are cleared. We also generate clearing revenues for contracts traded on the OTC derivative market which are also recognized when contracts are cleared. In addition, European derivatives revenues include annual renewal fees. Each January, NASDAQ OMX Commodities members are billed an annual fee which is recognized ratably over the following 12-month period.  

Access Services  

We generate revenues by providing market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. The type of connectivity is determined by the level of functionality a customer needs. As a result, access services revenues vary depending on the type of connection provided to customers. We provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. These participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. We also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. Revenues for providing access to our markets, co-location services and revenues for monthly exchange membership and registration fees are recognized on a monthly basis as the service is provided. Revenues from annual fees for exchange membership and registration fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period.  

Market Data  

Market Data revenues are earned from U.S. tape plans and U.S. and European proprietary market data products.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Net U.S. Tape Plans  

Revenues from U.S. tape plans include eligible UTP Plan revenues which are shared among UTP Plan participants. Under the revenue sharing provision of the UTP Plan, we are permitted to deduct costs associated with acting as the exclusive Securities Information Processor from the total amount of tape fees collected. After these costs are deducted from the tape fees, we distribute to the respective UTP Plan participants, including The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX, their share of tape revenues based on a formula, required by Regulation NMS that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, all quotes and trades in NYSE- and NYSE Amex-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on NYSE- and NYSE Amex-listed securities. Revenues from net U.S. tape plans are recognized on a monthly basis.  

U.S. Market Data Products  

We collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own data, as well as select third-party content. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information. We earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. U.S. Market Data revenues are recognized on a monthly basis. These revenues, which are subscription based, are recorded net of amounts due under revenue sharing arrangements with market participants.  

European Market Data Products  

European Market Data revenues are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic, NASDAQ OMX Baltic and NASDAQ OMX Commodities for four classes of securities: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. Revenues from European market data are subscription-based, are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data and are recognized on a monthly basis.  

Broker Services  

Our Broker Services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the Nordic market. The primary services offered are flexible back-office systems. Our services allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company’s back-office functions. Revenues from broker services are based on a fixed basic fee for administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed. Broker Services revenues are recognized on a continuous basis as services are rendered.  

In November 2009, we sold our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom to TD Waterhouse and recorded a gain of $5 million which is included in gain on sales of businesses in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2009. The sale of our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom will not have a material impact on our future consolidated results of operations.  

Issuer Services Revenues  

Global Listing Services  

Listing Services revenues in the U.S. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. Annual renewal fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. Listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. European listing fees, which are comprised of revenues derived from annual fees received from companies listed  

51  

Table of Contents 

 on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and NASDAQ OMX First North, are directly related to the listed companies’ market capitalization on a trailing 12-month basis. These revenues are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period.  

Global Listing Services revenues also include fees from Corporate Solutions. Our Corporate Solutions business provides customer support services, products and programs to companies, including companies listed on our exchanges. Revenues primarily include subscription income from Shareholder.com and Directors Desk, fees from GlobeNewswire and revenues from Corporate Solutions Nordic. Prior to October 2009, Corporate Solutions revenues also included commission income from our Carpenter Moore insurance agency business. In October 2009, we sold substantially all of our Carpenter Moore insurance agency business and recorded a gain of $7 million, which is included in gain on sales of businesses in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2009. The sale of our Carpenter Moore business will not have a material impact on our future consolidated results of operations. 

Fee income for services other than placement of insurance coverage is recognized as those services are provided. Shareholder.com revenues are based on subscription agreements with customers. Revenues from subscription agreements are recognized ratably over the contract period, generally one year in length. As part of subscription services, customers also are charged usage fees based upon actual usage of the services provided. Revenues from usage fees and other services are recognized when earned. Directors Desk revenues are based on subscriptions for online services for directors. Subscriptions are one year in length and revenues are recognized ratably over the year. GlobeNewswire generates fees primarily from wire distribution services, and revenues are recognized as services are provided. For our insurance agency business, commission income was recognized when coverage became effective, the premium due under the policy was known or could be reasonably estimated, and substantially all required services related to placing the insurance had been provided. Broker commission adjustments and commissions on premiums billed directly by underwriters were recognized when such amounts could be reasonably estimated.  

Global Index Group  

We develop and license NASDAQ OMX branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our Global Index Group. Revenues primarily include license fees from these branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products in the U.S. and abroad. We also generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored ETFs. We primarily have two types of license agreements: transaction-based licenses and asset-based licenses. Transaction-based licenses are generally renewable long-term agreements. Customers are charged based on transaction volume or a minimum contract amount, or both. If a customer is charged based on transaction volume, we recognize revenue when the transaction occurs. If a customer is charged based on a minimum contract amount, we recognize revenue on a pro-rata basis over the licensing term. Asset-based licenses also are generally long-term agreements. Customers are charged based on a percentage of assets under management for licensed products, per the agreement, on a monthly or quarterly basis. These revenues are recorded on a monthly or quarterly basis over the term of the license agreement.  

Market Technology Revenues  

The Market Technology segment delivers technology and services to marketplaces, brokers and regulators throughout the world. Market Technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration, surveillance solutions and advisory services.  

Revenues are derived from the following primary sources: licensing, support and facility management revenues, delivery project revenues, as well as change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues.  

52  

Table of Contents 

We enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. In order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of Vendor Specific Objective Evidence, or VSOE, of fair value for each element. When VSOE for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered.  

License and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by NASDAQ OMX that are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. After we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. Facility management revenues are also generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements and are derived when NASDAQ OMX assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. Revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. We record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Delivery project revenues are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by NASDAQ OMX. The majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. We may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. Under contract accounting, when VSOE for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. We record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Change request revenues include customer specific adaptations and modifications of the system solution sold by NASDAQ OMX after delivery has occurred. Change request revenues are recognized in revenue when earned. Advisory services are designed to support our customers’ strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. Advisory services revenues are recognized in revenue when earned. Broker surveillance revenues are derived from surveillance solutions targeting brokers and regulators throughout the world. Broker surveillance revenues are subscription based and are recognized in revenue when earned.  

53  

Table of Contents 

NASDAQ OMX’s Operating Results  

Key Drivers  

The following table includes key drivers for our Market Services, Issuer Services, and Market Technology segments. In evaluating the performance of our business, our senior management closely watches these key drivers.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

54  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Transactions reported to the FINRA/NASDAQ Trade Reporting Facility.  

 (2)  Includes transactions executed on NASDAQ’s, NASDAQ OMX BX’s and NASDAQ OMX PSX’s systems plus trades reported through the FINRA/NASDAQ Trade Reporting Facility.  

 (3)  In December 2009, derivative volume was transferred to NASDAQ OMX from EDX.  

 (4)  Transactions executed on Nord Pool and reported for clearing to NASDAQ OMX Commodities measured by Terawatt hours (TWh) and one thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide (1000 tCO2).  

 (5)  New listings include IPOs, including those completed on a best efforts basis, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and separately listed ETFs.  

 (6)  New listings include IPOs and represent companies listed on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic and companies on the alternative markets, NASDAQ OMX First North.  

 (7)  Number of listed companies for NASDAQ at period end, including separately listed ETFs.  

 (8)  Represents companies listed on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic and companies on the alternative markets, NASDAQ OMX First North, at period end.  

 (9)  Total contract value of orders signed.  

 (10)  Represents total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenue. Market Technology deferred revenue, as discussed in Note 7, “Deferred Revenue” to the consolidated financial statements, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders.  

Segment Operating Results  

Of our 2010 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,522 million, 67.3% was from our Market Services segment, 22.6% was from our Issuer Services segment, 10.0% was from our Market Technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. Of our 2009 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,453 million, 67.2% was from our Market Services segment, 22.7% was from our Issuer Services segment, 10.0% was from our Market Technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. Of our 2008 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,460 million, 67.5% was from our Market Services segment, 23.5% was from our Issuer Services segment, 8.2% was from our Market Technology segment and 0.8% related to other revenues.  

55  

Table of Contents 

The following table shows our total revenues, cost of revenues and revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

56  

Table of Contents 

MARKET SERVICES  

The following table shows total revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees from our Market Services segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

57  

Table of Contents 

 # Denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%.  

 (1)  Includes Section 31 fees of $252 million in 2010, $314 million in 2009 and $207 million in 2008. Section 31 fees are recorded as U.S. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues.  

 (2)  Includes Section 31 fees of $19 million in 2010, $14 million in 2009 and $2 million in 2008. Section 31 fees are recorded as U.S. derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues.  

Transaction Services  

Transaction Services revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increases were primarily due to increases in derivative trading and clearing revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and access services revenues. Partially offsetting the increase in 2009 was a decrease in cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees.  

U.S. Cash Equity Trading Revenues  

U.S. cash equity trading revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to modified rates and lower tiered rebate payouts, partially offset by a significant decline in industry volumes and a decline in our matched market share. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on NASDAQ’s trading system and the average net fee per share matched on NASDAQ’s trading system.  

U.S. cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. The decrease in 2010 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on NASDAQ’s trading system due to a significant decline in industry volumes, a decrease in Section 31 pass-through fee revenues charged by us to our customers and a decline in our matched market share. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on NASDAQ’s trading system, partially offset by higher Section 31 revenues due to higher rates charged by us to customers beginning in the second quarter of 2009.  

As discussed above, we record Section 31 fees as U.S. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. We are assessed these fees from the SEC and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. Pass-through fees can increase or decrease due to rate changes by the SEC, our percentage of the overall industry volumes processed on our systems, and differences in actual dollar value of the shares traded. Since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. Section 31 fees were $252 million in 2010, $314 million in 2009 and $207 million in 2008. The decrease in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to lower Section 31 fee rates and lower dollar value traded on NASDAQ and NASDAQ OMX BX’s trading systems. The increase in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to higher Section 31 fee rates in 2009.  

For The NASDAQ Stock Market and NASDAQ OMX PSX we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and for NASDAQ OMX BX we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that takes the liquidity. These transaction rebates decreased in 2010 compared to 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. The decrease in 2010 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on NASDAQ’s trading system due to a significant decline in industry volumes, lower tiered rebate payouts and a decline in our matched market share. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a lower number of shares matched on NASDAQ’s trading system, partially offset by an increase in the amount of the rebate offered to liquidity providers.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. The decrease in 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in Section 31 pass-through fees, lower routing costs, and a decrease in the amount of volume routed by NASDAQ due to declines in industry volumes. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to higher Section 31 fee rates, partially offset by lower routing costs, a decrease in the amount of volume routed by NASDAQ and lower fees incurred from NSCC.  

European Cash Equity Trading Revenues  

European cash equity trading revenues include trading revenues from equity products traded on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic exchanges and NEURO (for periods prior to closing our NEURO business). European cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. The decrease in 2010 was primarily due to revised trading fees introduced in the first quarter of 2010, partially offset by an increase in trading activity and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a decrease in the value traded per day due to lower average market capitalization of stocks traded, partially offset by the inclusion of European cash equity trading revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008. In addition, foreign exchange negatively impacted European cash equity trading revenues by $11 million in 2009.  

U.S. Derivative Trading and Clearing Revenues  

U.S. derivative trading and clearing revenues and revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to increases in volumes traded and market share, partially offset by lower average net fees for traded contracts. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s derivative trading revenues of $196 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s derivative trading revenues totaling $78 million for 2008. In addition, an increase in market share contributed to these increases in 2009.  

Similar to U.S. cash equity trading, Section 31 fees are recorded as derivative trading and clearing revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. We are assessed these fees from the SEC and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. Since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. Section 31 fees were $19 million in 2010, $14 million in 2009 and $2 million 2008.  

Transaction rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant, increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to a revised fee structure implemented in the first quarter of 2010 along with higher volumes traded and an increase in market share. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s transaction rebates of $61 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s transaction rebates totaling $17 million in 2008. The increase in transaction rebates in 2009 was also due to an increase in market share as discussed above.  

Brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in Section 31 pass-through fees. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $11 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s brokerage, clearance and exchange fees totaling $2 million in 2008.  

European Derivative Trading and Clearing Revenues  

European derivative trading and clearing revenues include trading and clearing revenues from derivative products traded on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, as well as clearing revenues from resale and repurchase agreements on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, trading and clearing revenues from derivative products on NASDAQ  

59  

Table of Contents 

 OMX Copenhagen and revenues from NASDAQ OMX Commodities. European derivative trading and clearing revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to higher trading and clearing revenues for energy contracts, options and futures contracts and fixed income products due to the transfer of derivative volume from EDX to NASDAQ OMX in the fourth quarter of 2009. Also contributing to the increase in 2010 was transaction activity associated with clearing resale and repurchase agreements which was launched in the fourth quarter of 2010 and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to the growth in cleared energy products and the transfer of derivative volume from EDX to NASDAQ OMX, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million in 2009.  

European derivative trading and clearing revenues include:  

   •    trading and clearing revenues for options and futures contracts of $49 million in 2010 compared with $33 million in 2009 and $41 million in 2008;  

   •    trading and clearing revenues for energy and carbon products of $41 million in 2010 compared with $35 million in 2009 and $6 million for the two months included in 2008. Beginning in May 2010, trading and clearing revenues for energy and carbon products include revenues from Nord Pool;  

   •    trading and clearing revenues from fixed income products of $18 million in 2010 compared with $14 million in both 2009 and 2008; and  

   •    other revenues and fees of $7 million in 2010 compared with $5 million in 2009 and $3 million in 2008. During 2009, we began providing trading and clearing operations to a Dutch trading platform called The Order Machine, which primarily contributed to the increase in other revenues and fees in 2010 and 2009.  

Access Services Revenues  

Access services revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to increased demand for co-location and network connectivity services and a revised fee structure for access services. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to: (i) revised fees for access services, (ii) increases in customer demand for network connectivity, (iii) continued expansion of our co-location services and (iv) the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s access services revenues of $15 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s access services revenues totaling $10 million in 2008.  

Market Data  

Market Data revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008.  

The decrease in 2010 was primarily due to decreases in net U.S. tape plans and European market data products revenues, partially offset by an increase in U.S. market data products revenues.  

The decline in net U.S. tape plans revenues in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to declines in NASDAQ’s trading and quoting market share of U.S. cash equities, as calculated under the SEC-mandated market data revenue quoting and trading formula, and reductions in the size of the tape plan revenue pools mainly driven by declines in subscriber populations.  

The increase in U.S. market data products revenues in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to growth of new products such as BX TotalView, options data feeds and mutual fund products, partially offset by discontinued products.  

The decrease in European market data products revenues in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to declines in subscriber populations and discontinued products, partially offset by modified fees for market data products and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million.  

60  

Table of Contents 

The decrease in 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in net U.S. tape plans revenues, partially offset by increases in U.S. market data products revenues and the inclusion of European market data products revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million.  

The decline in net U.S. tape plans revenues in 2009 was primarily due to a decline in NASDAQ’s trading and quoting market share of U.S. cash equities and a reduction in the size of the tape plans revenue pools.  

The increase in U.S. market data products revenues in 2009 was primarily due to growth of products such as the NASDAQ Global Index Data Service, which was launched in the first quarter of 2009, NASDAQ Last Sale, which was launched in the second quarter of 2008, and other proprietary data products.  

Broker Services  

Broker Services revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. These decreases were primarily due to the sale of our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom to TD Waterhouse in November 2009. The decrease in 2009 was also due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million.  

ISSUER SERVICES  

The following table shows revenues from our Issuer Services segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Global Listing Services  

U.S. Listing Services Revenues  

Annual renewal fees decreased in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily due to a decrease in the number of listed companies on The NASDAQ Stock Market. The number of companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market on January 1, 2010 was 2,852, compared to 3,023 on January 1, 2009, the date on which listed companies were billed their annual fees. The decrease in the number of listed companies was due to 302 delistings from The NASDAQ Stock Market in 2009, partially offset by 131 new listings in 2009.  

Annual renewal fees decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a decrease in the number of listed companies on The NASDAQ Stock Market. The number of companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market on January 1, 2009 was 3,023, compared to 3,135 on January 1, 2008, the date on which listed companies were billed their annual fees. The decrease in the number of listed companies was due to 289 delistings from The NASDAQ Stock Market in 2008, partially offset by 177 new listings in 2008.  

61  

Table of Contents 

The number of listed companies as of January 1, 2010, 2009 and 2008 includes separately listed ETFs. Annual renewal fees are recognized ratably over a 12-month period.  

Listing of additional shares fees increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared to 2008. Listing of additional shares fees are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated service period of four years. Therefore, revenues for each year will vary depending on the change in the total shares outstanding for companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market in each of the preceding four years.  

Initial listing fees decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. Initial listing fees are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated service period of six years. Therefore, revenues for each year will vary depending on the number of new listings, which include IPOs, in each of the preceding six years. New listings were 195 during 2010 compared with 131 during 2009 and 177 during 2008. The increase in new listings during 2010 was primarily due to a stronger IPO market and will impact future revenues as these fees are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated service period of six years.  

European Listing Services Revenues  

European Listing Services revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008.  

The increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in the market capitalization of Nordic issuers, partially offset by a decrease in the number of listed companies from 797 as of December 31, 2009 to 780 as of December 31, 2010.  

The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a decline in the market capitalization of Nordic issuers as well as a decrease in the number of listed companies from 824 as of December 31, 2008 to 797 as of December 31, 2009. In addition, foreign exchange negatively impacted European Listing Services revenues by $4 million in 2009. Partially offsetting the decline in 2009 was an increase in revenues due to the inclusion of European Listing Services revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008.  

European Listing Services revenues are recognized ratably over a 12-month period.  

Corporate Solutions Revenues  

Corporate Solutions revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to expanding customer utilization of Shareholder.com, Directors Desk and GlobeNewswire, as well as revenues from Bloom Partners. In addition, the inclusion of Corporate Solutions Nordic for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 contributed to the increase in 2009. Partially offsetting these increases in 2010 and 2009 was a decrease in Carpenter Moore revenues primarily due to the sale of substantially all of our Carpenter Moore insurance agency business in October 2009.  

Global Index Group Revenues  

Global Index Group revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in underlying assets associated with NASDAQ OMX-licensed ETFs and other financial products. The Global Index Group has also seen growth in the number of products licensed and an increase in volume for licensed derivative products in 2010. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a decrease in underlying assets associated with NASDAQ OMX-licensed ETFs and a decrease in licensed derivatives and futures volumes, partially offset by futures price increases and the inclusion of a full twelve-month period of European global index revenues compared with ten months in 2008.  

62  

Table of Contents 

MARKET TECHNOLOGY  

The following table shows the revenues from our Market Technology segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Market Technology revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to an increase in change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues, partially offset by decreases in delivery project revenues and license, support and facility management revenues.  

License, support and facility management revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to a decrease in facility management revenues due to the loss of facility management customers. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in support revenues resulting from our acquisition of SMARTS in August 2010, clients entering the support stage of their contracts and a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million in 2010.  

Delivery project revenues decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to higher deliveries of market technology contracts during 2009, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million in 2010.  

Change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues increased in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to an increase in broker surveillance revenues resulting from our acquisition of SMARTS in August 2010, as well as higher change request activity during 2010.  

Market Technology revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to the inclusion of Market Technology revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008, as well as increased deliveries of market technology contracts during 2009. Partially offsetting these increases was an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million in 2009.  

As of December 31, 2010, total order value, which represents the total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenues, was $495 million. Market Technology deferred revenue of $146 million, which is included in this amount, represents cash payments received that are yet to be recognized as revenue for these signed orders. See Note 7, “Deferred Revenue,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. The recognition and timing of these revenues depends on many factors, including those that are not within our control. As such, the following table of Market Technology revenues to be recognized in the future represents our best estimate:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

63  

Table of Contents 

Expenses  

Operating Expenses  

The following table shows our operating expenses:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total operating expenses increased $41 million in 2010 compared with 2009 and $30 million in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 reflects an increase in operating expenses of $27 million and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million. The increase in operating expenses of $27 million in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in general, administrative and other expense for charges incurred in connection with the January 2010 repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009, partially offset by asset retirements in the third quarter of 2009 related to obsolete technology assets. The increase in 2009 reflects an increase in operating expenses of $63 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $33 million. The increase in operating expenses of $63 million in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of OMX’s operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 and the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008.  

Compensation and benefits expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $7 million and higher compensation expenses reflecting stronger financial performance, partially offset by a decrease in salary expense primarily due to the sale of substantially all of our Carpenter Moore insurance agency business and our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom in the fourth quarter of 2009. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of OMX’s compensation and benefits expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 as well as increased compensation and stock based compensation as a result of other recent acquisitions. Partially offsetting the increase in compensation and benefits expense in 2009 was a decrease in incentive compensation reflecting stronger financial performance in 2008, as well as a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $15 million. Headcount, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest, increased to 2,395 employees at December 31, 2010 from 2,235 employees at December 31, 2009. Headcount at December 31, 2008 was 2,506 employees. The increase in headcount in 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to our recent acquisitions of SMARTS and FTEN. The decrease in headcount in 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily due to a reduction in staffing needs driven by successful integration efforts associated with our business combination with OMX AB and the acquisition of PHLX, as well as the sale of substantially all of our Carpenter Moore business and our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom as noted above.  

Marketing and advertising expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to production and media costs of a television advertisement campaign in 2010, as well as increased advertising on behalf of new issuers. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a reduction in media production and advertising.  

64  

Table of Contents 

Depreciation and amortization expense decreased slightly in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. The decrease in 2010 was primarily due to the full amortization of a technology intangible asset in January 2010, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency of $2 million. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s depreciation and amortization expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008 and the inclusion of OMX’s depreciation and amortization expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million.  

Professional and contract services expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign currency. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to expenses for consulting work performed on system upgrades, as well as the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s professional and contract services expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008. Partially offsetting these increases were foreign exchange, which had a favorable impact of $3 million in 2009, and lower costs due to cost savings programs that were put in place during 2009.  

Computer operations and data communications expense remained flat in 2010 compared with 2009 and increased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to an increase in hardware maintenance, software leases and network costs to facilitate our recent acquisitions, as well as the inclusion of OMX’s computer operations and data communications expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million.  

Occupancy expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in co-location rent related to the build-out of our data centers, a $5 million sublease loss reserve recorded in 2010 due to our decision to vacate space we currently lease in Philadelphia and San Francisco as well as London and an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $1 million. Partially offsetting these increases in 2010 was a $8 million sublease loss reserve recorded in 2009 on the space we occupy in Stockholm, Sweden, discussed below. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to a charge incurred as a result of our decision to exercise our option to terminate our lease contract for space we occupy in Stockholm before its term and our decision to vacate part of the space we occupy in Stockholm, which resulted in recording an estimated sublease loss reserve of $8 million. In addition, an increase in co-location rent and the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s occupancy expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008 contributed to the increase in 2009. Partially offsetting this increase was foreign exchange, which had a favorable impact of $2 million for 2009.  

Regulatory expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to outsourcing the regulation of NASDAQ OMX PHLX to FINRA in 2010. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to new regulatory fees from FINRA and an expansion of regulatory services to new markets. FINRA provides regulatory services to The NASDAQ Stock Market, The NASDAQ Options Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, NASDAQ OMX PSX and the markets operated and regulated by NASDAQ OMX BX, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions.  

Merger and strategic initiatives expense was $4 million in 2010 compared with $17 million for 2009 and $25 million in 2008. Merger and strategic initiatives expense for 2010 included legal and consulting costs related to our recent acquisitions of SMARTS and FTEN and costs related to strategic initiatives. Merger expenses for 2009 and 2008 were directly attributable to the business combination with OMX AB and the acquisition of PHLX, but did not qualify as purchase accounting adjustments. The costs primarily included consulting and legal costs related to our integration of OMX AB and PHLX. Merger expenses in 2009 also included sales and use tax exposures which existed on previous acquisitions.  

General, administrative and other expense increased in 2010 compared with 2009 and decreased in 2009 compared with 2008. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to charges incurred related to the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009. In January 2010, we recorded a pre-tax charge  

65  

Table of Contents 

 of $40 million, which included the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs incurred in conjunction with our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009 of $28 million, costs to terminate our float-to-fixed interest rate swaps previously designated as a cash flow hedge of $9 million and other costs of $3 million. See “Senior Unsecured Notes, Credit Facility and Repayment of Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities in Place as of December 31, 2009,” of Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In addition, the increase was due to the recognition of pre-tax gains of $4 million in 2009 on the early extinguishment of debt, net of debt issuance, discussed below. Partially offsetting these increases in 2010 were asset retirements of $10 million in the third quarter of 2009 related to obsolete technology assets.  

The decrease in general, administrative and other expense in 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily due to foreign exchange, which had a favorable impact of $6 million, the recognition of pre-tax gains of $4 million in 2009 on the early extinguishment of debt, net of debt issuance and other costs, and an improvement in collections of bad debts in 2009, partially offset by asset retirements of $10 million in 2009 related to obsolete technology assets. See “Early Extinguishment of Debt,” of Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the early extinguishment of debt.  

Non-operating Income and Expenses  

The following table presents our non-operating income and expenses:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 # Denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%.  

Interest Income  

Interest income decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. The decrease in 2010 was primarily due to lower average interest rates earned on our short term investments included in cash and cash equivalents, as well as on financial investments, at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to lower interest rates of approximately 2% on our investments in 2009 compared with 2008.  

Interest Expense  

Interest expense for 2010 was $102 million, and was comprised of $81 million in interest expense, $14 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of the 2.50% convertible notes and $7 million in non-cash debt issuance amortization expense. Interest expense remained flat in 2010 compared with 2009 as decreases in  

66  

Table of Contents 

 interest expense due to lower average outstanding debt obligations in 2010 resulting from principal amortization payments made in 2009 and 2010 and repurchases of our debt during 2009 were offset by increases in interest expense due to higher average interest rates on our debt obligations.  

Interest expense for 2009 was $102 million, and was comprised of $67 million in interest expense, $13 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of the 2.50% convertible notes, $11 million in non-cash debt issuance amortization expense and $11 million in other related fees. Interest expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to a full twelve-month period of interest expense in 2009 on our outstanding debt obligations related to the OMX AB business combination compared with ten months of interest expense in 2008 and additional interest expense due to our increased outstanding debt obligations as a result of the acquisitions of PHLX and certain businesses of Nord Pool that were completed in the second half of 2008.  

Dividend and Investment Income  

Dividend and investment income decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 and in 2009 compared with 2008. The decrease in 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in the fair value of our government debt securities portfolio as a result of increased rates. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a decrease in the dividend per share received from our available-for-sale investment in the Oslo Børs Exchange, or Oslo, as well as a decrease in the fair value of our government debt securities portfolio classified as trading investment securities. Lower fair values were generally related to higher interest rates in 2009 on this portfolio.  

Loss on Divestiture of Businesses  

The loss on divestiture of businesses of $11 million in 2010 was due to our decision to close the businesses of both NEURO ($6 million) and Agora-X ($5 million) in the second quarter of 2010.  

Income (Loss) from Unconsolidated Investees, net  

Net income from unconsolidated investees of $2 million in 2010 was related to our share in the earnings and losses of our equity method investments. The net loss in 2009 of $107 million was primarily due to impairment charges related to our investments in NASDAQ Dubai and Agora-X and the sale of our Orc shares. See below for further discussion. The net income in 2008 of $27 million primarily related to the NASDAQ Dubai transaction in February 2008. We contributed intangible assets and $50 million in cash to NASDAQ Dubai in exchange for a 33 1/3% equity stake in NASDAQ Dubai. One of the intangible assets contributed was the Nasdaq trade name, which had a zero carrying value on Nasdaq’s books and records prior to the transfer. As a result, we recognized a $26 million gain for the difference between Nasdaq’s carrying value and the fair value of the contributed asset on this non-monetary exchange.  

Impairment of NASDAQ Dubai  

In December 2009, we agreed to participate in the realignment of the ownership structure of NASDAQ Dubai. The realignment was completed in May 2010 and at that time, NASDAQ Dubai became a wholly-owned subsidiary of DFM, a publicly traded company controlled by Borse Dubai. We received a 1% equity interest in DFM in exchange for our equity interest in NASDAQ Dubai. Our existing technology and trademark licensing arrangements with Borse Dubai and NASDAQ Dubai remain unchanged.  

In connection with the realignment of the ownership structure discussed above, a third-party specialist determined the fair value of NASDAQ Dubai. Based on this valuation, we determined our carrying value of NASDAQ Dubai was no longer recoverable and was in fact impaired, and we wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in an $82 million pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2009.  

67  

Table of Contents 

At the time of the realignment in May 2010, we recorded a pre-tax, non cash loss of $1 million in income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income, which was based on the difference between the price of DFM common stock multiplied by the number of shares of DFM acquired and the carrying value of our investment in NASDAQ Dubai at the time of the exchange.  

NASDAQ OMX originally contributed intangible assets and $50 million in cash to NASDAQ Dubai in exchange for a 33 1/3% equity stake in NASDAQ Dubai in February 2008. At that time, NASDAQ OMX valued its total NASDAQ Dubai investment at $128 million. Prior to the impairment, the investment had a carrying value of $120 million.  

Impairment of Agora-X  

In December 2009, we entered into an agreement to increase our investment in Agora-X from 20% to 85%. In evaluating the fair value of the total investment, it was determined that our carrying value of Agora-X was no longer recoverable and was in fact impaired, and we wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of $5 million.  

Sale of Orc Shares  

During the second quarter of 2009, we sold our shares in Orc, representing 25.25% of the share capital of Orc, to a group of Swedish and other international investors for $54 million in cash. As a result of the sale, we recognized a $19 million loss, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees.  

Loss on Sale of Investment Security  

In connection with our business combination with OMX AB, we acquired a long-term available-for-sale investment in Oslo. During the second quarter of 2009, we made a strategic decision to sell this investment, demonstrating our intent to no longer hold this investment, and recorded a $5 million loss, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees.  

In 2008, we recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $35 million related to this investment, which was included in asset impairment charges in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See “Asset Impairment Charges” below for further discussion.  

Gain on Sales of Businesses  

In October 2009, we sold substantially all of our Carpenter Moore insurance agency business. Certain assets of the western region direct practice insurance brokerage business were sold to Woodruff-Sawyer & Co. and the eastern region insurance brokerage business was sold to Aon Risk Services Companies, Inc. In connection with these sales, we recorded a gain of $7 million.  

In November 2009, we sold our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom to TD Waterhouse and recorded a gain of $5 million.  

Debt Conversion Expense  

In the third quarter of 2009, we recorded debt conversion expense of $25 million related to an inducement for conversion of most of the 3.75% convertible notes into common stock. The $25 million expense included a cash inducement of $9 million, the present value of the series A convertible preferred stock issued of $15 million, and debt issuance and other costs of $1 million. See “Conversion of 3.75% Convertible Notes,” of Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” and “Preferred Stock,” of Note 12, “Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Asset Impairment Charges  

In 2008, we recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $35 million related to our long-term available-for-sale investment security in Oslo. See “Financial Investments,” of Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. We also recorded a non-cash impairment loss of $7 million in 2008 from the write-down of finite-lived intangibles assets, primarily related to our insurance agency business. See Note 4, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Gain (Loss) on Foreign Currency Contracts, net  

The loss on foreign currency contracts of $58 million in 2008 primarily related to a forward contract entered into to hedge the NOK cash payment for the Nord Pool transaction ($72 million) and our market technology forward currency contracts ($13 million), partially offset by gains on forward contracts entered into to hedge the foreign currency exposure on our business combination with OMX AB ($27 million).  

See Note 15, “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Income Taxes  

NASDAQ OMX’s income tax provision was $137 million in 2010 compared with $128 million in 2009 and $198 million in 2008. The overall effective tax rate was 26.0% in 2010, 32.7% in 2009 and 38.6% in 2008. The lower effective tax rate in 2010 when compared to 2009 was primarily due to the restructuring of certain NASDAQ OMX subsidiaries. These transactions resulted in one-time reductions in deferred tax liabilities due to a revised effective tax rate and a one-time tax deduction for a capital loss. The higher effective tax rate in 2009 was primarily due to losses on the sale of our equity method investment and an available-for-sale investment security, which are not deductible for tax purposes in the local jurisdiction where these investments were held. The lower effective tax rate in 2009 when compared with 2008 was primarily due to reductions in valuation allowances associated with certain deferred tax assets, and reductions in current year taxes in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Offsetting these decreases is the debt conversion expense, which is not deductible for U.S. tax purposes. The higher effective tax rate in 2008 was primarily due to the other-than-temporary impairment loss of $35 million on a long-term available-for-sale investment security, which is not deductible for tax purposes.  

The effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. These same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets.  

In order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. Interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense.  

NASDAQ OMX and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return and applicable state and local income tax returns and non-U.S. income tax returns. Federal income tax returns for the years 2007 through 2009 are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service. Several state tax returns are currently under examination by the respective tax authorities for the years 2000 through 2008 and we are subject to examination for 2009. Non-U.S. tax returns are subject to review by the respective tax authorities for years 2003 through 2009. In August 2010 we paid the state of California $2 million with respect to audits for the years 1996 through 1998 and the years 2000 through 2006. Since this amount was included in our unrecognized tax  

69  

Table of Contents 

 benefits as of December 31, 2009, such payment does not affect our 2010 effective tax rate. The outcome of these audits did not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. We anticipate that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2010 will significantly decrease in the next twelve months as we expect to settle certain tax audits. The final outcome of such audits cannot yet be determined. We anticipate that such adjustments will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

In the fourth quarter of 2010, we received an appeal from the Finnish Tax Authority in which such authority challenges certain interest expense deductions claimed by NASDAQ OMX in Finland for the years 2009 and 2008. NASDAQ OMX’s tax return position with respect to this deduction was previously reviewed and approved by the Finnish Tax Authority. The appeal also demands certain penalties be paid with regards to such tax return filing position. If the Finnish Tax Authority prevails in their challenge, additional tax and penalties for such years would total approximately $10 million. We expect the Finnish Tax Authority to agree with our position once its review is completed and, as such, it is unlikely NASDSAQ OMX will be assessed any additional tax and penalties. Through December 31, 2010, we have recorded the tax benefits associated with such filing position.  

In June 2009, NASDAQ OMX filed an application for an advance tax ruling with the Swedish Tax Council for Advance Tax Rulings. The application was filed to confirm whether certain interest expense is deductible for Swedish tax purposes under legislation that became effective on January 1, 2009. In June 2010, we received a favorable response from the Swedish Tax Council for Advance Tax Rulings in which all members of the Council agreed that such interest expense is deductible for Swedish tax purposes. The Swedish Tax Agency has recently appealed such ruling to the Swedish Supreme Administrative Court. We expect the Swedish Supreme Administrative Court to agree with the ruling from the Swedish Tax Council for Advance Tax Rulings. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a tax benefit of $18 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, related to this matter. Since January 1, 2009, we have recorded a tax benefit of $37 million, or $0.18 per diluted share, related to this matter.  

Net (Income) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests  

Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $6 million in 2010 compared to a net loss of $3 million in 2009 and net income of $1 million in 2008. The 2010 and 2009 amounts primarily reflect losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in IDCG. The 2008 noncontrolling interests amount primarily represents 1.2% of OMX income for the period February 27, 2008 to August 27, 2008 (the effective date of the purchase of the remaining minority OMX AB shares).  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

While 2010 was still a challenging economic environment, global market and economic conditions appear to have rebounded from adverse levels experienced during 2009, and this recovery has reinvigorated financial markets. Many lenders and institutional investors have re-established their lending practices and are now able to provide increased funding to borrowers, which has resulted in improved access to credit and positive liquidity growth. Our cost and availability of funding remain healthy and we expect to be positively impacted by continued improvements in the credit markets as we expect to be able to obtain improved terms should we seek either new debt financing or refinancing of our existing obligations.  

In January 2010, NASDAQ OMX refinanced its existing credit facilities by issuing $1 billion of senior unsecured notes, or the Notes, and entering into a $950 million senior unsecured three-year credit facility. The new credit facility provides for an unfunded $250 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility), a $350 million funded Tranche A term loan, or the Term Loan A, and a $350 million funded Tranche X term loan, or the Term Loan X and, together with the Term Loan A, the Term Loans. The Notes were issued at a discount. As a result of the discount, the proceeds received from the issuance were less than the aggregate principal amounts. NASDAQ OMX applied the net proceeds of $996 million from the  

70  

Table of Contents 

 Notes, the $700 million funded Term Loans and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009 and related fees. As a result, NASDAQ OMX terminated the associated credit agreement.  

In December 2010, we entered into a $400 million senior unsecured bridge facility, of which proceeds of $370 million were utilized to partially finance the purchase of 22,781,000 shares of our outstanding common stock from Borse Dubai. See “Share Repurchase from Borse Dubai,” of Note 12, “NASDAQ OMX Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase from Borse Dubai. In December 2010, we also issued $370 million of 5.25% senior unsecured notes, or the 2018 Notes. The 2018 Notes were issued at a discount and pay interest semiannually at a rate of 5.25% per annum until January 16, 2018. As a result of the discount, the proceeds received from the issuance were less than the aggregate principal amount. NASDAQ OMX applied the net proceeds of $367 million from the 2018 Notes and cash on hand of $3 million to repay all amounts outstanding under our bridge facility and terminated the bridge facility as of December 31, 2010.  

Excluding the bridge facility, which was repaid with the net proceeds from the 2018 Notes, net proceeds from debt obligations were $2.1 billion in 2010.  

See “Senior Unsecured Notes, Credit Facility and Repayment of Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities in Place as of December 31, 2009,” “Bridge Facility,” and “5.25% Senior Unsecured Notes,” of Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Historically, we have funded our operating activities and met our commitments through cash generated by operations, augmented by the periodic issuance of our common stock in the capital markets and by issuing debt obligations. In addition to these cash sources, we have a $250 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility) under our credit facility to borrow funds.  

In the near term, we expect that our operations will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, and interest payments on our debt obligations. Working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $279 million at December 31, 2010, compared with $516 million at December 31, 2009, a decrease of $237 million. As of December 31, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents of $315 million were primarily invested in money market funds. In the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt and other long-term liabilities.  

Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include:  

   •    deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments;  

   •    changes in our working capital requirements; and  

   •    an increase in our expenses.  

Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include:  

   •    operating covenants contained in our credit facility that limit our total borrowing capacity;  

   •    increases in interest rates applicable to our floating rate loans under our credit facility;  

   •    credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt;  

   •    a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and  

   •    volatility in the public debt and equity markets.  

71  

Table of Contents 

The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our cash and cash equivalents and cash flows, indebtedness, contractual obligations and contingent commitments and derivative clearing and broker-dealer net capital requirements on our liquidity and capital resources.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents and Changes in Cash Flows  

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in banks and all non-restricted highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. The balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short-term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy and alternative investment choices. Restricted cash, which was $60 million as of December 31, 2010 and $30 million as of December 31, 2009, is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements and is classified as restricted cash in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, current restricted cash primarily includes cash held for regulatory purposes at NASDAQ OMX Nordic. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, restricted cash also includes cash held in customer margin accounts at IDCG and NOCC. Non-current restricted cash was $105 million at December 31, 2010 and $80 million at December 31, 2009, an increase of $25 million. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, non-current restricted cash includes a deposit in the guaranty fund of IDCG of $80 million. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, non-current restricted cash includes $25 million segregated for NOCC to improve its liquidity position and is not available for general use. These amounts are classified as non-current restricted cash in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

The following tables summarize our cash and cash equivalents and changes in cash flows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Cash and cash equivalents exclude restricted cash which is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 # Denotes a variance greater than 100.0%.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Cash and cash equivalents decreased $279 million from December 31, 2009 primarily due to cash used in financing activities and investing activities, partially offset by cash provided by operating activities.  

72  

Table of Contents 

Changes in Cash Flows  

Cash Provided by Operating Activities  

The following items impacted our cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010:  

   •    Net income of $389 million, plus:  

   •    Non-cash items of $172 million comprised primarily of $103 million of depreciation and amortization expense, $37 million for charges related to debt refinancing (including $28 million for the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs incurred in conjunction with our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009 and $9 million in costs to terminate our float-to-fixed interest rate swaps previously designated as a cash flow hedge), $33 million of share-based compensation expense, $14 million related to accretion of our 2.50% convertible senior notes, $11 million for loss on divestiture of businesses and asset retirements and impairment charges of $6 million, partially offset by deferred taxes, net of $35 million.  

Partially offset by an:  

   •    Increase in other assets of $79 million primarily related to a prepaid expense for a data center lease of $32 million, an increase in non-current restricted cash related to $25 million segregated for NOCC to improve its liquidity position and an increase of $30 million in current restricted cash which relates to cash held on customer margin accounts at IDCG and NOCC, as well as increases related to regulatory requirements within NASDAQ OMX Nordic.  

   •    Decrease in Section 31 fees payable to SEC of $55 million primarily due to the timing of payments, which are made twice a year in September and March, as well as lower fee rates.  

The following items impacted our cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009:  

   •    Net income of $263 million, plus:  

   •    Non-cash items of $271 million comprised primarily of loss from unconsolidated investees, net of $107 million, depreciation and amortization of $104 million, share-based compensation of $35 million, debt conversion expense of $25 million, accretion of 2.50% convertible senior notes of $13 million and asset retirements and impairment charges of $13 million, partially offset by gain on sales of businesses of $12 million and deferred taxes, net of $10 million.  

   •    Decrease in other assets of $130 million primarily due to a decrease in restricted cash as a result of the release of NASDAQ OMX Commodities clearing capital due to changes in our clearing capital model.  

   •    Increase in Section 31 fees payable to SEC of $88 million due to higher Section 31 fees as a result of rate increases.  

   •    Decrease in receivables, net of $33 million primarily due to decreases in our transaction services trade receivables reflecting increased tape rebates, which are netted against our tape revenue billings.  

   •    Partially offset by a:  

   •    Decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $125 million primarily due to lower rebates as a result of decreased trading activity, as well as the wind-down of activities at Carpenter Moore and our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom, which were sold in the fourth quarter of 2009.  

73  

Table of Contents 

   •    Decrease in accrued personnel costs of $41 million primarily due to a decrease in our incentive compensation accrual reflecting stronger financial performance in 2008, as well as a reduction in the number of employees in 2009.  

   •    Decrease in other current liabilities of $37 million primarily due to decreases in accrued taxes as a result of payments made.  

We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, share-based compensation and the timing and amount of other payments that we make.  

Cash Used in Investing Activities  

Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 is primarily due to purchases of trading securities, cash used for acquisitions, and purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from sales and redemptions of trading securities. In 2009, cash used in investing activities primarily related to cash used in connection with the purchase of trading securities, as well as purchases of property and equipment. Partially offsetting cash used in 2009 was cash received from sales and redemptions of trading securities and our available-for-sale investment in Oslo, as well as cash received from the sale of our 25.25% equity method investment in Orc.  

Cash Used in Financing Activities  

Cash used in financing activities in 2010 primarily consisted of the repayment of debt obligations of $2.2 billion consisting of the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009 of $1.7 billion, repayment of our bridge facility of $370 million, repayment of $130 million on our Term Loans, including optional payments totaling $60 million made in the second and third quarters of 2010, and a $16 million payment related to the payoff of our subordinated debt obligation assumed in the acquisition of Nord Pool’s derivatives clearing and consulting subsidiaries. We also utilized $797 million of cash in connection with our share repurchase program, which includes our stock repurchase from Borse Dubai. These decreases were partially offset by the net proceeds from debt obligations of $2.4 billion, as discussed above.  

See “Indebtedness” below for further discussion of our debt obligations. See “Share Repurchase from Borse Dubai,” and “Share Repurchase Program,” of Note 12, “NASDAQ OMX Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share repurchase program.  

Cash used in financing activities for 2009 consisted of $225 million in principal payments made on our senior secured term loan facilities in place as of December 31, 2009 and a $71 million payment to repay in full the vendor note issued to the previous owners of Nord Pool in connection with the acquisition of certain businesses of Nord Pool. In addition, we repurchased $47 million principal amount of our 2.50% convertible senior notes for a cash payment of $40 million and recognized a pre-tax gain of $4 million, net of debt issuance and other costs, and made a $4 million payment on our other credit facilities in 2009. We also made a $9 million payment in connection with an inducement for the conversion of our 3.75% convertible notes. For further discussion of the $9 million inducement payment, see Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” and “Preferred Stock,” of Note 12, “Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements.  

74  

Table of Contents 

Indebtedness  

The following table summarizes our debt obligations by contractual maturity:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  As of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, approximately $0.5 million aggregate principal amount of the 3.75% convertible notes remained outstanding.  

 (2)  In addition to our scheduled $70 million quarterly payments, we made optional payments totaling $60 million of principal on our Term Loans during the second and third quarters of 2010.  

Senior Unsecured Notes, Credit Facility and Repayment of Our Senior Secured Credit Facilities in Place as of  

December 31, 2009  

As discussed above and in Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements, in January 2010 NASDAQ OMX issued $1 billion of Notes and entered into a $950 million senior unsecured three-year credit facility. The credit facility provides for an unfunded $250 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility) and $700 million of funded Term Loans. NASDAQ OMX applied the net proceeds from the Notes, the $700 million funded Term Loans and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009 and related fees. As a result, NASDAQ OMX terminated the associated credit agreement.  

The senior unsecured credit facility contains financial and operating covenants. Financial covenants include an interest expense coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. The interest expense coverage ratio requires NASDAQ OMX to maintain a minimum ratio of adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined by the credit agreement) to cash interest expense (as defined by the credit agreement) of 4.0 to 1.0. The maximum leverage ratio of debt (excluding up to $100 million of short term borrowings in connection with regulatory requirements) to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (as defined by the credit agreement), is initially set at 3.5 to 1.0, stepping down to 3.25 to 1.0 beginning January 2012. Operating covenants include limitations on NASDAQ OMX’s ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens on assets, enter into affiliate transactions and pay dividends.  

The credit facility also contains customary affirmative covenants, including access to financial statements, notice of defaults and certain other material events, maintenance of business and insurance, and events of default, including cross-defaults to our material indebtedness.  

NASDAQ OMX is permitted to repay borrowings under the credit facility at any time in whole or in part, without penalty. We also are required to repay loans outstanding under the credit facility with net cash proceeds  

75  

Table of Contents 

 from sales of property and assets of NASDAQ OMX and its subsidiaries (excluding inventory sales and other sales in the ordinary course of business) and casualty and condemnation proceeds, in each case subject to specified exceptions and thresholds.  

Bridge Facility  

As discussed above and in Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements, in December 2010, NASDAQ OMX entered into a $400 million senior unsecured bridge facility of which proceeds of $370 million were utilized to partially finance the purchase of our stock from Borse Dubai. We applied the net proceeds from the issuance of our 2018 notes, discussed below, and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under the bridge facility and terminated the bridge facility as of December 31, 2010.  

5.25% Senior Unsecured Notes  

In December 2010, NASDAQ OMX issued $370 million of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2018, at a discount. The net proceeds were $367 million. The 2018 Notes pay interest semiannually at a rate of 5.25% per annum until January 16, 2018.We applied the net proceeds from the 2018 Notes of $367 million and cash on hand of $3 million to repay all amounts outstanding under our bridge facility, as discussed above, as well as related fees.  

Other Credit Facilities  

In addition to the $250 million revolving credit commitment discussed above, we also have other credit facilities related to our clearinghouses in order to meet liquidity and regulatory requirements. These credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily Swedish Krona and U.S. dollar, totaled $440 million ($196 million in available liquidity and $244 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2009, these credit facilities totaled $417 million ($185 million in available liquidity and $232 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized.  

Debt Covenants  

At December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations.  

Debt Obligations by Contract Maturity  

See “Contractual Obligations and Contingent Commitments” below for our debt obligations by contract maturity, which includes both principal and interest obligations. See Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations.  

Derivative Clearing and Broker-Dealer Net Capital Requirements  

Derivative Clearing Operations Regulatory Capital Requirements  

We are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for our clearing operations for NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, NASDAQ OMX Commodities and IDCG. The level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. At December 31, 2010, we were required to maintain regulatory capital of $273 million which is comprised of:  

   •    $3 million of restricted cash;  

   •    $80 million of non-current restricted cash; and  

   •    $190 million primarily in Swedish government debt securities. These securities are included in financial investments, at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2010.  

76  

Table of Contents 

In addition, we have available credit facilities of $244 million which can be utilized to satisfy our regulatory capital requirements.  

Broker-Dealer Net Capital Requirements  

Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity. These requirements obligate these subsidiaries to comply with minimum net capital requirements. At December 31, 2010, Nasdaq Execution Services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $8.1 million, or $7.8 million in excess of the minimum amount required. At December 31, 2010, NASDAQ Options Services also was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $5.4 million, or $5.1 million in excess of the minimum amount required.  

Other Capital Requirements  

NASDAQ Options Services also is required to maintain a $2.0 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with OCC.  

Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with GAAP, we have also provided non-GAAP net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. Management uses this non-GAAP information internally, along with GAAP information, in evaluating our performance and in making financial and operational decisions.  

We believe our presentation of these measures provides investors with greater transparency and supplemental data relating to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for period-to-period comparison of results as the items described below do not reflect historical operating performance. These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Investors should not rely on any single financial measure when evaluating our business. We recommend investors review the GAAP financial measures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. When viewed in conjunction with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide greater transparency and a more complete understanding of factors affecting our business than GAAP measures alone. Our management uses these measures to evaluate operating performance and management decisions made during the reporting period by excluding certain items that we believe have less significance on, or do not impact, the day-to-day performance of our business. We understand that analysts and investors regularly rely on non-GAAP financial measures, such as non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share, to assess operating performance. We use non-GAAP net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share because they more clearly highlight trends in our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on GAAP financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our operating performance. Non-GAAP net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX for the periods presented below is calculated by adding net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX and various non-recurring, infrequent or other charges that are not routine operating expenses, and their related income tax effects. We do not believe these items are representative of our future operating performance since these charges were not consistent with our historical and normal operating performance.  

Non-GAAP adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily related to the following:  

(i) debt related charges associated with the repayment of our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009, (ii) loss on divestiture of businesses due to our decision to close the businesses of both NEURO and Agora-X in the second quarter of 2010, (iii) asset retirement charges primarily related to obsolete  

77  

Table of Contents 

 technology, (iv) workforce reduction costs, (v) sublease loss reserve charge recorded on the space we occupy in Philadelphia, San Francisco and London due to our decision to vacate this space, (vi) merger and strategic initiatives costs, primarily legal and consulting, related to our recent acquisitions of SMARTS and FTEN, as well as costs related to other strategic initiatives, (vii) adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect these non-GAAP adjustments, and (viii) non-recurring tax items, net primarily due to the permanent tax effect of the restructuring of certain NASDAQ OMX subsidiaries. This resulted in a one-time reduction in deferred tax liabilities due to a revised effective tax rate and a one-time tax deduction for a capital loss.  

Non-GAAP adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily related to the following:  

(i) debt conversion expense related to an inducement for conversion of most of our 3.75% convertible notes into common stock, (ii) gain on early extinguishment of a portion of our 2.50% convertible senior notes, net of costs, (iii) impairment charges related to our investments in NASDAQ Dubai and Agora-X, as well as the sale of our Orc shares, (iv) asset retirement charges primarily related to obsolete technology, (v) loss on the sale of our available-for-sale investment security in Oslo, (vi) gain on the sale of substantially all of our Carpenter Moore insurance agency business and a gain on the sale of our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom, (vii) workforce reduction costs, (viii) sublease loss reserve charge recorded as a result of our decision to exercise our option to terminate our lease contract for space we occupy in Stockholm before its term and our decision to vacate part of this space, (ix) merger and strategic initiatives costs, directly attributable to the business combination with OMX AB and the acquisition of PHLX, which did not qualify as purchase accounting adjustments, (x) adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect these non-GAAP adjustments, (xi) non-recurring tax items, net primarily due to reductions in 2008 U.S. tax liabilities based on recent tax return filings and reductions in U.S. tax liabilities for years which are no longer subject to examination, and (xii) other.  

Non-GAAP adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily related to the following:  

(i) asset impairment charges related to a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge on our long-term available-for-sale investment security in Oslo and a non-cash impairment loss from the write-down of finite-lived intangible assets, primarily related to our Carpenter Moore insurance agency business, (ii) net loss on foreign currency contracts primarily related to our foreign currency forward contracts used to economically hedge our exposure related to our business combination with OMX AB and the Nord Pool transaction, (iii) a non-recurring gain on the contribution of the Nasdaq trade name in the transaction with NASDAQ Dubai, (iv) workforce reduction costs, (v) merger and strategic initiatives costs, directly attributable to the business combination with OMX AB and the acquisition of PHLX, which did not qualify as purchase accounting adjustments, (vi) adjustment to the income tax provision to reflect these non-GAAP adjustments, and (vii) other.  

78  

Table of Contents 

The following table represents reconciliations between GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share and non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  We determine the tax effect of each item based on the tax rules in the respective jurisdiction where the transaction occurred. The foreign currency revaluation has no associated tax impact.  

79  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations and Contingent Commitments  

NASDAQ OMX has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. The following table shows these contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. A weighted-average interest rate of 2.41% at December 31, 2010 was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on our Term Loans. All other debt obligations were calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rate multiplied by the aggregate principal amount at December 31, 2010.  

 (2)  We lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. Some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs.  

 (3)  In connection with our acquisitions of FTEN and SMARTS, we entered into escrow agreements to secure the payment of post-closing adjustments and other closing conditions. At December 31, 2010, these agreements provide for future payments of $25 million.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Collateral Received for Clearing Operations, Guarantees Issued and Credit Facilities Available  

Collateral Received for Clearing Operations  

Through our clearing operations in the derivatives markets with NASDAQ OMX Commodities, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and IDCG, as well as riskless principal trading at NOCC and the resale and repurchase market with NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, we are the legal counterparty for each position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. We also act as the counterparty for certain trades on OTC derivative contracts. The derivatives are not used by us for the purpose of trading on our own behalf and the resale and repurchase agreements are not used by us for financing purposes. The structure and operations of NASDAQ OMX Commodities and NASDAQ OMX Stockholm differ from other clearinghouses. See “Derivative Positions, at Fair Value,” of Note 14, “Fair Value of Financial Investments,” for further discussion. As a legal counterparty of each transaction, we bear the counterparty risk between the purchaser and seller in the contract. The counterparty risks are measured using models that are agreed to with the Financial Supervisory Authority of the application country, which requires us to provide minimum guarantees and maintain certain levels of regulatory capital.  

We require our customers and clearing members to pledge collateral and meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. Total customer pledged collateral with NASDAQ OMX Commodities and NASDAQ OMX Stockholm was $8.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and $6.1 billion at December 31, 2009. This pledged collateral is held by a third-party custodian bank for the benefit of the clearing members and is accessible by NASDAQ OMX in the event of default. Since these funds are not held by NASDAQ OMX Commodities or NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and they are not available for our use, we do not receive any interest income on these funds.  

80  

Table of Contents 

We also require market participants at IDCG and NOCC to meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations and to provide collateral to cover the daily margin call. Customer pledged cash collateral held by IDCG and NOCC, which was $15 million at December 31, 2010, is included in restricted cash with an offsetting liability included in other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as the risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest income, belongs to IDCG and NOCC. Clearing member pledged cash collateral, included in IDCG’s guaranty fund, was $8 million at December 31, 2010. This cash is included in non-current restricted cash with an offsetting liability included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as the risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest income, belongs to IDCG.  

Through our clearing operations in the resale and repurchase markets with NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, pledged collateral which is transferred through NASDAQ OMX Stockholm at initiation of the bilateral contract between the two clearing member counterparties, primarily consists of Swedish government debt securities. In addition, market participants must meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. In the event that one of the members cannot fulfill its obligation to deliver or receive the underlying security at the agreed upon price, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm is required to buy or sell the security in the open market to fulfill its obligation. In order to protect itself against a price movement in the value of the underlying security, or price risk, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm requires all members to provide additional margin as needed, which is valued on a daily basis and is maintained at a third-party custodian bank for the benefit of the clearing members and is accessible by NASDAQ OMX Stockholm in the event of default.  

Guarantees Issued and Credit Facilities Available  

In addition to the collateral pledged by market participants discussed above, we have obtained financial guarantees and credit facilities which are guaranteed by us through counter indemnities, to provide further liquidity and default protection. At December 31, 2010, financial guarantees issued to us totaled $5 million. Credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily Swedish Krona and U.S. dollar, totaled $440 million ($196 million in available liquidity and $244 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2009, these facilities totaled $417 million ($185 million in available liquidity and $232 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was utilized.  

We believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies. Accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for these arrangements.  

Leases  

We lease some of our office space and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with third parties and sublease office space to third parties. Some of our leases contain renewal options and escalation clauses based on increases in property taxes and building operating costs.  

Other Guarantees  

We have provided other guarantees as of December 31, 2010 of $18 million, primarily related to obligations for our rental and leasing contracts. In addition, for certain Market Technology contracts, we have performance guarantees of $6 million related to the delivery of software technology and support services. We have received financial guarantees from various financial institutions to support these guarantees. These guarantees totaled $35 million at December 31, 2009.  

We have also provided a $25 million guarantee to our wholly-owned subsidiary, NOCC, to cover losses associated with customer defaults, net of any collateral posted against such losses.  

81  

Table of Contents 

We believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. Accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for the above guarantees.  

Brokerage Activities  

Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services provide guarantees to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under their standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. If a member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to the clearinghouses, other members would be required to meet its shortfalls. To mitigate these performance risks, the exchanges and clearinghouses often require members to post collateral as well as meet certain minimum financial standards. Nasdaq Execution Services’ and NASDAQ Options Services’ maximum potential liability under these arrangements cannot be quantified. However, we believe that the potential for Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. Accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for these arrangements.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

As a result of our operating and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, equity risk and credit risk.  

We have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. We identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis.  

We perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have. We may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes.  

Interest Rate Risk  

The following table summarizes our significant exposure to interest rate risk on our financial assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Represents total contractual debt obligations.  

 (2)  Annualized impact of a 100 basis point parallel adverse shift in the yield curve.  

 (3)  Includes floating rate and fixed interest rates with a maturity or reset date due within 12 months.  

 (4)  Financial assets primarily consist of Swedish government debt securities, which are classified as trading investment securities, with an average duration of 1.60 years.  

We are exposed to cash flow risk on floating rate positions, which totaled $480 million at December 31, 2010. When interest rates on financial assets of floating rate positions decrease, net interest income decreases. When interest rates on financial liabilities of floating rate positions increase, net interest expense increases. Based on December 31, 2010 positions, each 1.0% change in interest rates on our net floating rate positions would impact annual pre-tax income negatively by $1 million in total as reflected in the table above.  

82  

Table of Contents 

We are exposed to price risk on our fixed rate financial investments, which totaled $220 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, these fixed rate positions have an average outstanding maturity or reset date falling in more than one year. A shift of 1.0% of the interest rate curve would in aggregate impact the fair value of these positions by approximately $4 million. The average duration of the portfolio was 1.60 years. The net effect of such a yield curve shift, taking into account the change in fair value and the increase in interest income, would impact annual pre-tax income negatively by $2 million.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

As an international company, we are subject to currency translation risk. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 33.9% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 26.4% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Swedish Krona, Euro, Norwegian Krone and Danish Krone. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 34.5% of our revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 21.2% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Swedish Krona, Euro and Norwegian Krone. The increase in the percentage of our operating income in currencies other than the U.S. dollar was primarily due to an increase in U.S. dollar operating expenses. In January 2010, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $40 million, which included the write-off of the remaining unamortized balance of debt issuance costs incurred in conjunction with our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009 of $28 million, costs to terminate our float-to-fixed interest rate swaps previously designated as a cash flow hedge of $9 million and other costs of $3 million.  

Our primary exposure to foreign denominated revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010 is presented in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 # Represents multiple foreign currency rates.  

Our primary exposure to foreign denominated revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 is presented in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 # Represents multiple foreign currency rates.  

83  

Table of Contents 

For the year ended December 31, 2008, our primary exposures to foreign currencies were to the Swedish Krona, Euro and Danish Krone. The average foreign currency exchange rate to the U.S. dollar in 2008 was 0.1516 for the Swedish Krona, 1.4712 for the Euro, and 0.1963 for the Danish Krone. Of our total consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008, 2% was denominated in Swedish Krona, 19% in Euros, and 2% in Danish Krones.  

Equity Risk  

Our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries’ net assets or equity to U.S. dollars. Substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may create volatility in our reported results as we are required to translate the balance sheets and operational results of these foreign currency denominated subsidiaries into U.S. dollars for consolidated reporting. The translation of foreign subsidiaries non-U.S. dollar balance sheets into U.S. dollars for consolidated reporting results in a cumulative translation adjustment which is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (income) loss within stockholders’ equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Our primary exposure to this equity risk as of December 31, 2010 is presented by foreign currency in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Credit Risk  

We are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously selecting the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. The financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. Credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments which have investment grade ratings, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties.  

Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the clearing and routing services they provide for our trading customers. System trades in cash equities routed to other market centers for members of The NASDAQ Stock Market are cleared by Nasdaq Execution Services, as a member of NSCC. System trades in derivative contracts executed in the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by NASDAQ Options Services, as a member of the OCC.  

Pursuant to the rules of the NSCC and Nasdaq Execution Services’ clearing agreement, Nasdaq Execution Services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. Pursuant to the rules of the OCC and NASDAQ Options Services’ clearing agreement, NASDAQ Options Services is also liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making  

84  

Table of Contents 

 payment or delivering securities. Adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. However, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as Nasdaq Execution Services’ and NASDAQ Options Services’ customers are not permitted to trade on margin and NSCC and OCC rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with NSCC and OCC. Historically, neither Nasdaq Execution Services nor NASDAQ Options Services has incurred a liability due to a customer’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. Credit difficulties or insolvency or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions.  

Through our clearing operations in the derivative markets with NASDAQ OMX Commodities, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and IDCG, as well as riskless principal trading at NOCC and the resale and repurchase market with NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, we are the legal counterparty for each position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. See “Collateral Received for Clearing Operations, Guarantees Issued and Credit Facilities Available,” of “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements,” above for further discussion.  

We also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. Our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets.  

On an ongoing basis we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparty’s creditworthiness. Credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The following critical accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risk and uncertainties. Management’s estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Revenue Recognition  

Issuer Services Revenues  

Global Listing Services  

Listing Services revenues in the U.S. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. Annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. However, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration.  

Market Technology Revenues  

The Market Technology segment delivers technology and services to marketplaces, brokers and regulators throughout the world. Market Technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing, settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration, surveillance solutions and advisory services.  

85  

Table of Contents 

Revenues are derived from the following primary sources: licensing, support and facility management revenues, delivery project revenues, as well as change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues.  

We enter into multiple-element sales arrangements to provide technology solutions and services to our customers. In order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of VSOE of fair value for each element. When VSOE for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered.  

License and support revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by NASDAQ OMX that are generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements. After we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. Facility management revenues are also generally entered into in multiple-element sales arrangements and are derived when NASDAQ OMX assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. Revenues for license, support and facility management services are generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered. We record the deferral of revenue associated with multiple-element sales arrangements in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Delivery project revenues are derived from the installation phase of the system solutions developed and sold by NASDAQ OMX. The majority of our delivery projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. We may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. Under contract accounting, when VSOE for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. We record the deferral of this revenue in deferred revenue and non-current deferred revenue and the deferral of costs in other current assets and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Change request, advisory and broker surveillance revenues do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized in revenue when earned.  

Reserve for Bad Debts  

The reserve for bad debts is maintained at a level that management believes to be sufficient to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. The reserve is increased by the provision for bad debts which is charged against operating results and decreased by the amount of charge-offs, net of recoveries. The amount charged against operating results is based on several factors including, but not limited to, a continuous assessment of the collectability of each account, the length of time a receivable is past due and our historical experience with the particular customer. In circumstances where a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations is known (i.e., bankruptcy filings), we record a specific provision for bad debts against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount we reasonably believe will be collected. Due to changing economic, business and market conditions, we review the reserve for bad debts monthly and make changes to the reserve through the provision for bad debts as appropriate. If circumstances change (i.e., higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer’s ability to pay), our estimates of recoverability could be reduced by a material amount.  

86  

Table of Contents 

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets and Related Impairment  

Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. As of December 31, 2010, goodwill totaled $5.1 billion and indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $993 million. The determination of the value of such goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. Goodwill for our three reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value may be impaired. We test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using October 1st carrying values. We assess potential impairments to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. For goodwill, if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying value. For indefinite-lived intangible assets, impairment exists if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value.  

Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate cash flows. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are based on the operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions, relevant trading multiples of comparable companies, the trading price of our common stock and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. However, disruptions to our business such as economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, may result in our having to perform an impairment test for goodwill for some or all of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets prior to the required annual assessment. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in the future.  

As of December 31, 2010, there were no reporting units deemed to be at risk of failing the goodwill impairment test. Also, we do not have any indefinite-lived intangible assets at risk of failing our impairment test. There have been no significant events since the timing of our impairment tests that would have triggered additional impairment testing. No impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets were recorded in 2010, 2009 or 2008.  

Other Long-Lived Assets and Related Impairment  

We also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. We evaluate our equity method investments for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. In addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. Any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the related asset and a charge to operating results.  

In 2009, we recorded losses of $87 million due to impairment charges related to NASDAQ Dubai and Agora-X. These charges were included in income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 5, “Investments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In 2008, we recorded an impairment loss of finite-lived intangible assets of $7 million primarily related to our insurance agency business, which was part of Corporate Solutions within our Issuer Services segment. This  

87  

Table of Contents 

 charge was included in asset impairment charges in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 4, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. No other impairments of long-lived assets were recorded in 2010, 2009 or 2008.  

Amortization Periods of Intangible Assets with Finite-Lives  

Intangible assets, net, primarily include exchange and clearing registrations, customer relationships, trade names, licenses and technology. Intangible assets with finite-lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their average estimated useful lives as follows:  

   •    Technology: 3—10 years  

   •    Customer relationships: 10—30 years  

   •    Other: 4—10 years  

The estimated useful life of developed and new technology is based on the likely duration of benefits to be derived from the technology. We consider such factors as the migration cycle for re-platforming existing technologies and the development of future generations of technology. We also give consideration to the pace of the technological changes in the industries in which we sell our products.  

The estimated useful life of customer relationships is determined based on an analysis of the historical attrition rates of customers and an analysis of the legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic, or other factors that limit the useful life of customer relationships.  

See Note 3, “Acquisitions and Strategic Initiatives,” and Note 4, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of intangible assets.  

Income Taxes  

Estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. Management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. Interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense.  

In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.  

In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. While we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities  

88  

Table of Contents 

 would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result.  

Pension and Post-Retirement Benefits  

Pension and other post-retirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is developed using actuarial valuations. We assess our pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. In evaluating these assumptions, we consider many factors, including evaluation of the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rate, retirement age assumption, our historical assumptions compared with actual results and analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations. See Note 10, “Employee Benefits,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Discount rates used for pension and other post-retirement benefit plan calculations are evaluated annually and modified to reflect the prevailing market rates at the measurement date of a high-quality fixed-income debt instrument portfolio that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligations as they come due. Actuarial assumptions are based upon management’s best estimates and judgment.  

The expected rate of return on plan assets for our U.S. pension plans represents our long-term assessment of return expectations which may change based on significant shifts in economic and financial market conditions. The long-term rate of return on plan assets is derived from return assumptions based on targeted allocations for various asset classes. While we consider the pension plans’ recent performance and other economic growth and inflation factors, which are supported by long-term historical data, the return expectations for the targeted asset categories represents a long-term prospective return.  

Share-Based Compensation  

The accounting for share-based compensation requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees based on estimated fair values. Share-based awards, or equity awards, include employee stock options, restricted stock and performance service units, or PSUs. Prior to October 2008, restricted stock generally refers to restricted stock awards and after October 2008, restricted stock generally refers to restricted stock units.  

We estimate the fair value of employee stock options using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Assumptions used in the Black-Scholes valuation model include the expected life of the award, the weighted-average risk free rate, the expected volatility, and the dividend yield. Our computation of expected life is based on historical exercise patterns. The risk free interest rate for periods within the expected life of the award is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Our computation of expected volatility is based on a combination of historical and market-based implied volatility. Our credit facilities restrict our ability to pay dividends. Before our credit facilities were in place, it was not our policy to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock.  

See Note 11, “Share-Based Compensation,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Software Costs  

We capitalize and amortize significant purchased application software and operational software that are an integral part of computer hardware on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, generally two to five years. We expense other purchased software as incurred.  

Certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. We capitalize internal and third party costs incurred in connection with the development of internal use software.  

89  

Table of Contents 

Under our Market Technology segment, costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process are capitalized after the product has reached technological feasibility. Technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detail program design or, in its absence, completion. Thereafter, all software production costs shall be capitalized. Prior to reaching technological feasibility, all costs are charged to expense. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the product and are included in depreciation and amortization expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  

Foreign Currency Translation  

Foreign denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured into the functional currency at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date through the income statement. Gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are remeasured using the rates on the dates on which those elements are recognized during the period, and are included in general, administrative and other expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  

Translation gains or losses resulting from translating our subsidiaries’ financial statements from the local functional currency to the reporting currency, net of tax, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within stockholders’ equity in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Assets and liabilities are translated at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are recorded at the date the transaction occurs or at an applicable average rate.  

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements  

ASC Topic 605.25—In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued authoritative guidance on FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 605.25, “Revenue Recognition—Multiple-Element Arrangements.” This guidance modifies the revenue recognition guidance for arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple-elements, such as product, software, services or support, to a customer at different times as part of a single revenue generating transaction. This standard provides principles and application guidance to determine whether multiple deliverables exist, how the individual deliverables should be separated and how to allocate the revenue in the arrangement among those separate deliverables. The standard also expands the disclosure requirements for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. This accounting guidance was effective for us on January 1, 2011, but allowed for early adoption as of the first quarter of 2010 or through a retrospective application to all revenue arrangements for all periods presented in the financial statements. We adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2010. The adoption did not have a significant impact on our financial position or results of operations.  

ASC Topic 820—In January 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance relating to ASC Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures.” The amended guidance requires new disclosures as follows:  

   •    Amounts related to transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 shall be disclosed separately and the reasons for the transfers shall be described.  

   •    In the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3), a reporting entity should present separately information about purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements on a gross basis.  

The guidance also provides amendments that clarify existing disclosures related to the following:  

   •    Reporting fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities.  

   •    Providing disclosure surrounding the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both Level 2 and Level 3 fair value measurements.  

90  

Table of Contents 

This accounting guidance was effective for us beginning on January 1, 2010, except for the disclosure requirements surrounding the reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurements, which were effective for us on January 1, 2011. Since this guidance only requires additional disclosure, it did not and will not affect our financial position or results of operations.  

ASC Topic 855—In February 2010, the FASB issued amended guidance on subsequent events. Under this amended guidance, entities that file with the SEC are no longer required to disclose the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated in originally issued or revised financial statements. This amended guidance was effective immediately and we adopted the new requirements as of March 31, 2010.  

Summarized Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.