Part I  

Item 1. Business  

Overview  

We are a leading global exchange group that delivers trading, clearing, exchange technology, securities listing, and public company services across six continents. Our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, market data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, financial services and market technology products and services. Our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting cash equity trading, derivatives trading, clearing and settlement and many other functions.  

In the U.S., we operate The NASDAQ Stock Market, a registered national securities exchange. The NASDAQ Stock Market is the largest single cash equities securities market in the U.S. in terms of listed companies and in the world in terms of share value traded. As of December 31, 2010, The NASDAQ Stock Market was home to 2,778 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $4.6 trillion. In addition, in the U.S. we operate two additional cash equities trading markets, two options markets, a futures market and a derivatives clearinghouse. We also engage in riskless principal trading of over-the-counter, or OTC, power and gas contracts.  

In Europe, we operate exchanges in Stockholm (Sweden), Copenhagen (Denmark), Helsinki (Finland), and Iceland as NASDAQ OMX Nordic, and exchanges in Tallinn (Estonia), Riga (Latvia) and Vilnius (Lithuania) as NASDAQ OMX Baltic. Collectively, the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic offer trading in cash equities, bonds, structured products and ETFs, as well as trading and clearing of derivatives and clearing of resale and repurchase agreements. Our Nordic and Baltic operations also offer alternative marketplaces for smaller companies called NASDAQ OMX First North. As of December 31, 2010, the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, together with NASDAQ OMX First North, were home to 780 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $1.1 trillion.  

We also operate NASDAQ OMX Armenia. In addition, NASDAQ OMX Commodities operates the world’s largest power derivatives exchange, one of Europe’s largest carbon exchanges and N2EX, a marketplace for physical U.K. power contracts.  

In some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services.  

History and Structure  

Nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA (then known as the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.). Beginning in 2000, FINRA restructured and broadened ownership in Nasdaq by selling shares to FINRA members, investment companies and issuers listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market.  

In connection with this restructuring, Nasdaq applied to the SEC to register The NASDAQ Stock Market as a national securities exchange. Prior to operating as an exchange, The NASDAQ Stock Market operated under an SEC-approved plan that provided a delegation of legal authority from FINRA to The NASDAQ Stock Market to operate as a stock market. FINRA fully divested its ownership of Nasdaq in 2006, and The NASDAQ Stock Market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. In 2006, Nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. As a result, our exchange licenses and exchange and broker-dealer operations are held by our subsidiaries.  

On February 27, 2008, Nasdaq and OMX AB combined their businesses pursuant to an agreement with Borse Dubai Limited, a Dubai company, or Borse Dubai, and Nasdaq was renamed The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. Concurrently with the business combination with OMX AB, we also acquired a 33 1/3% equity stake in  

2  

Table of Contents 

 NASDAQ Dubai Limited, or NASDAQ Dubai. In December 2009, we agreed to participate in the realignment of the ownership structure of NASDAQ Dubai. In May 2010, as part of this realignment, NASDAQ Dubai became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dubai Financial Market PJSC, or DFM, a publicly traded company controlled by Borse Dubai. NASDAQ OMX received a 1% equity interest in DFM in exchange for the equity interest in NASDAQ Dubai.  

In July 2008, we completed our acquisition of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., or PHLX, expanding our presence in the derivatives market. PHLX, renamed NASDAQ OMX PHLX LLC, operates as a distinct market alongside The NASDAQ Options Market, our options platform that was launched in March 2008. In August 2008, we acquired the Boston Stock Exchange, Incorporated, or BSX. We used the BSX license to create a second U.S. cash equities market, called NASDAQ OMX BX, which was launched in January 2009. In October 2008, we acquired Nord Pool ASA’s, or Nord Pool’s, clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries. As a result of the acquisition, we launched NASDAQ OMX Commodities, which offers energy and carbon derivatives products.  

In December 2008, we acquired a majority interest in the International Derivatives Clearing Group, or IDCG, and IDCG became an independently operated subsidiary of NASDAQ OMX. IDCG provides central counterparty, or CCP, clearing for interest rate swap products through its clearinghouse subsidiary, International Derivatives Clearinghouse, LLC, or IDCH. In January 2009, we acquired a 22% stake in European Multilateral Clearing Facility N.V., or EMCF, a leading European clearinghouse. In addition, we signed an agreement with EMCF to use its CCP services for all Nordic cash equity transactions.  

In March 2010, with the purchase of the assets of North American Energy Credit and Clearing Corp., NASDAQ OMX expanded its presence in the OTC energy commodity markets. The acquisition of these assets was effected through our newly-established subsidiary NASDAQ OMX Commodities Clearing Company, or NOCC. In May 2010, we acquired Nord Pool ASA, a derivatives trading market. In August 2010, we completed our acquisition of SMARTS Group Holdings Pty Ltd, or SMARTS, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. This acquisition is part of our strategy to diversify the Market Technology business and enter the surveillance and compliance market. We believe that this acquisition will strengthen our position as the leading technology partner to marketplaces worldwide.  

In December 2010, we completed our acquisitions of FTEN, Inc., or FTEN, a leading provider of Real-Time Risk Management, or RTRM, solutions for the financial securities market and Zoomvision Mamato, or ZVM, a company that provides live webcasting services primarily for investor relations professionals. ZVM is the leading provider of webcasting services in Northern Europe.  

Competitive Strengths  

Premier global exchange company. We are a premier global exchange company that is the largest cash equities market in terms of share value traded in the world. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, The NASDAQ Stock Market and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic had an average daily trading volume of 8.6 million trades in cash equities, representing a value of approximately $15.1 trillion. In addition, across our markets, we had 3,558 listings representing 42 countries as of December 31, 2010. We have many of the world’s largest companies listed on our marketplaces. Our wholly-owned subsidiary The NASDAQ Stock Market continues to be the single largest liquidity pool for trading cash equities in the U.S.  

Leader in global exchange technology. We believe we are the leader in global exchange technology. As the world’s first electronic stock exchange, we pioneered electronic trading and have continued to innovate over the last 30 years. Our INET platform processes trades at sub-millisecond transaction speeds with close to 100% system reliability. In addition, our platforms are highly scalable with current capacity at ten times the average daily volume allowing significantly higher transaction volume to be handled at low incremental cost.  

3  

Table of Contents 

 Furthermore, we were the first exchange to offer electronic trading and integrated derivatives trading and clearing to other exchanges and today have a global technology customer base of more than 70 marketplaces in over 50 countries worldwide, including China (Hong Kong), Japan, Singapore, Australia and the U.S. Our Genium INET® offering, based on proven INET technology, provides technology customers with the speed, scale and reliability required to meet the specific needs of their markets. We believe that we will continue to provide leading technology for the world’s competitive and demanding capital markets, which increasingly require that exchanges be able to constantly secure the best price for investors and issuers, a natural strength of our technology and electronic trading platforms.  

Diversified operations and products. We have a diversified business, both in terms of geography and product offerings. In addition, our recent acquisitions, investments and strategic initiatives have significantly diversified our product offerings, particularly in the derivatives trading and clearing, clearing of resale and repurchase agreements, commodities and surveillance technology businesses.  

Proven and disciplined management team. We have a proven and disciplined management team that has substantial industry experience and expertise in making and integrating strategic acquisitions. Led by Robert Greifeld, our Chief Executive Officer, our executive management team has significant experience in the financial services industry. We believe the NASDAQ OMX management team has demonstrated an ability to innovate and respond effectively to market opportunities.  

Commitment to regulatory integrity. As a global exchange company, we are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions worldwide. We are charged by regulators with maintaining fair and orderly markets for the benefit of investors, and we work to fulfill this obligation in several ways. In some instances, we have entered into agreements with independent third parties to provide regulatory oversight that is separate from our markets. In addition, we operate real-time market surveillance programs relating to trading and compliance-monitoring and enforcement programs with respect to listings on our markets. We are committed to strong and effective regulation and believe that regulatory integrity benefits investors, strengthens the NASDAQ OMX brand and attracts companies seeking to do business with us or to list securities on our markets.  

Products and Services  

We operate in three segments: Market Services, Issuer Services and Market Technology. Of our 2010 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,522 million, 67.3% was from our Market Services segment, 22.6% was from our Issuer Services segment, 10.0% was from our Market Technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. Of our 2009 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,453 million, 67.2% was from our Market Services segment, 22.7% was from our Issuer Services segment, 10.0% was from our Market Technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues. Of our 2008 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,460 million, 67.5% was from our Market Services segment, 23.5% was from our Issuer Services segment, 8.2% was from our Market Technology segment and 0.8% related to other revenues.  

See Note 18, “Segments,” to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our segments and geographic data.  

Market Services  

Our Market Services segment includes our U.S. and European Transaction Services businesses, as well as our Market Data and Broker Services businesses. We offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including cash equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and ETFs. In addition, in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services.  

4  

Table of Contents 

U.S. Transaction Services  

In the U.S., we offer trading in cash equity securities, derivatives and ETFs on The NASDAQ Stock Market, The NASDAQ Options Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, NASDAQ OMX BX, NASDAQ OMX PSX and NASDAQ OMX Futures Exchange, or NFX, and engage in riskless principal trading of OTC power and gas contracts through NOCC. Our transaction-based platforms in the U.S. provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes for cash equity securities, derivatives and ETFs. The platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions for cash equity securities, derivatives and ETFs, providing fee-based revenues.  

Cash Equities Trading. The NASDAQ Stock Market is the largest single pool of liquidity for trading U.S.-listed cash equities, matching an average of approximately 18.8% of all U.S. cash equities volume for 2010.  

In January 2009, we launched a second U.S. cash equities market, called NASDAQ OMX BX. With NASDAQ OMX BX, we offer a second quote within the U.S. cash equities marketplace, providing our customers enhanced trading choices and price flexibility. We have been able to leverage our INET trading system, which runs The NASDAQ Stock Market, to operate NASDAQ OMX BX, providing customers an additional fast and efficient cash equity securities market. In 2010, NASDAQ OMX BX matched an average of approximately 3.3% of all U.S. cash equities volume.  

In October 2010, we launched a third U.S. cash equities market, called NASDAQ OMX PSX. This new market utilizes a price-size priority model and also runs on INET technology, leveraging the speed and efficiency benefits offered throughout NASDAQ OMX globally.  

Our fully electronic U.S. transaction-based platforms provide members with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in cash equity securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX. Market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or ATSs, and registered securities exchanges. These services are offered for NASDAQ-listed and non-NASDAQ-listed securities. Specifically, our platforms:  

   •    Provide a comprehensive display of the interest by market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer).  

   •    Provide subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level for exchange-listed securities and critical data for the Opening Cross, Closing Cross, Halt Cross and IPO Cross.  

   •    Provide anonymity to market participants. In other words, participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity, which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others.  

Trade Reporting. All U.S. registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. Trades executed on The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX are automatically reported under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. Currently, market participants are not charged for the reporting of most of these trades. The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan, or the UTP Plan, for NASDAQ-listed securities and under the Consolidated Tape and Consolidated Quotation Plans for securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, NYSE Amex and other exchanges.  

Through The FINRA/NASDAQ Trade Reporting Facility, or FINRA/NASDAQ TRF, we collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchanges. The FINRA/NASDAQ TRF collects trade reports as a facility of FINRA. A large percentage of these trades results from orders that broker-dealers have matched  

5  

Table of Contents 

 internally, or internalized, and is submitted to the FINRA/NASDAQ TRF for reporting purposes only. The FINRA/NASDAQ TRF charges market participants for locked in reporting of most trades, but it shares back most revenues earned from shared market information with respect to the trades. The FINRA/NASDAQ TRF also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the FINRA/NASDAQ TRF for reporting and clearing.  

In addition to trade reporting and trade comparison services, we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers.  

U.S. Derivative Trading and Clearing. In the U.S., we operate The NASDAQ Options Market and NASDAQ OMX PHLX for the trading of equity options, ETF options, index options and currency options. As of December 31, 2010, NASDAQ OMX PHLX was the largest options market in the U.S. NASDAQ OMX PHLX operates a hybrid electronic and floor-based market as a distinct market alongside The NASDAQ Options Market. During the year ended December 31, 2010, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and The NASDAQ Options Market had an average combined market share of approximately 27.4% in the U.S. equity options market, consisting of approximately 23.4% at NASDAQ OMX PHLX and approximately 4.0% at The NASDAQ Options Market. Together, the 27.4% represented the largest share of the U.S. equity and ETF options market. Our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors and high frequency trading firms, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often prefer to trade on the floor.  

In the U.S., we also operate NFX which offers trading for currency futures and other financial futures. Most futures traded on NFX clear at The Options Clearing Corporation, or OCC. In addition, NFX serves as the designated contract market for interest rate swap futures that are cleared through IDCH.  

Through IDCH, our majority-owned subsidiary IDCG brings a centrally-cleared solution to the largest segment of the OTC derivatives marketplace, specifically interest rate derivatives. IDCH acts as the CCP for clearing interest rate swap futures contracts. IDCH utilizes NASDAQ OMX matching and clearing technology to clear and settle these interest rate derivative products.  

With the purchase of the assets of North American Energy Credit and Clearing Corp. in March 2010 by our newly-established subsidiary NOCC, NASDAQ OMX also expanded its presence in the OTC energy commodity markets.  

Acquisition of FTEN. In December 2010, we completed our acquisition of FTEN, a leading provider of RTRM solutions for the financial securities market. As a market leader in RTRM, FTEN is well positioned to grow as the industry is becoming more focused on solutions for effectively managing risk. Market participants are seeking tools that provide real-time, low latency enterprise-wide risk management, market awareness and control. FTEN’s technology provides broker-dealers and their clients the ability to manage risk more effectively in real-time, which leads to better utilization of capital as well as improved regulatory compliance. We will offer FTEN solutions to our global base of broker-dealers and the international exchange community.  

European Transaction Services  

Nordics. NASDAQ OMX Nordic’s operations comprise the exchanges in Stockholm (Sweden), Copenhagen (Denmark), Helsinki (Finland), and Iceland. The exchanges offer trading for cash equities and bonds, trading and clearing services for derivatives, and beginning September 2010, clearing services for resale and repurchase agreements. Our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for Nordic market data.  

Trading is offered in Nordic securities such as cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units, ETFs, bonds and other interest-related products. NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and NASDAQ  

6  

Table of Contents 

 OMX Copenhagen also offer trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. Settlement and registration of cash trading takes place in Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland via the local central securities depositories.  

In 2009, NASDAQ OMX expanded its trading offering to include cash equities listed in Norway and launched a new portfolio of Norwegian derivatives products. The offering is designed to provide lower trading costs and other benefits for customers seeking to trade all Nordic cash equity products on one platform. NASDAQ OMX has been the second largest market for trading in Norwegian stocks since 2009.  

Through our clearing operations in the derivative markets with NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, we are the legal counterparty for each derivative position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. We also act as the counterparty for certain trades on OTC derivative contracts. The derivatives are not used by NASDAQ OMX Stockholm for the purpose of trading on its own behalf. As the legal counterparty of each transaction, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm bears the counterparty risk between the purchaser and the seller in the contract. The counterparty risks are measured using models that are agreed to with the Financial Supervisory Authority of the applicable country, which requires us to provide minimum guarantees and maintain certain levels of regulatory capital.  

The structure and operations of NASDAQ OMX Stockholm differ from other clearinghouses. NASDAQ OMX Stockholm is not a member-owned organization, does not maintain a guarantee fund to which members contribute and does not enforce loss sharing assessments amongst members. In addition, unlike other clearinghouses, it does not record any margin deposits and guarantee funds, as all risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest, belongs to the counterparty. Market participants must provide collateral to cover the daily margin call as needed, which is in addition to the initial collateral placed when entering into the transaction. Acceptable collateral is cash and eligible securities in a pledged bank account and/or an on-demand guarantee. All collateral is maintained at a third-party custodian bank for the benefit of the clearing members and is accessible by NASDAQ OMX in the event of default. In addition, market participants must meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. For NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, following the completion of a transaction, settlement primarily takes place between parties by net cash settlement or with the exchange of securities and funds. For those transactions where there is an exchange of securities and funds, the transfer of ownership is registered and the securities are stored on the owner’s behalf.  

Beginning in October 2009, most of our cash equity trades on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic are centrally cleared by EMCF, a leading European clearinghouse in which we own a 22% equity stake.  

In September 2010, NASDAQ OMX launched a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market together with market participants. As a result of an agreement between the Swedish Money Market Council and NASDAQ OMX, the entire Swedish Interbank resale and repurchase agreement market will ultimately be cleared through NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. Similar to derivative clearing discussed above, through our clearing operations in the resale and repurchase markets with NASDSQ OMX Stockholm, we are the legal counterparty for each resale and repurchase contract traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. We only clear these transactions once a bilateral contract between members has been entered into whereby the two members have agreed on all terms in the transaction. The resale and repurchase agreements are not used for financing purposes by NASDAQ OMX. As the legal counterparty of each transaction, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm bears the counterparty risk between the purchaser and the seller in a resale and repurchase agreement. As discussed above, the structure and operations for the resale and repurchase market is similar to the derivative market. For resale and repurchase agreements, collateral is not held by NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. All resale and repurchase clearing activities are transacted under our clearing member agreements that give us the right, in the event of default, to liquidate collateral pledged between the clearing members and to offset receivables and payables with the same counterparty.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Pledged collateral, which is transferred through NASDAQ OMX Stockholm at initiation of the bilateral contract between the two clearing member counterparties, primarily consists of Swedish government debt securities. Market participants must meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. In the event that one of the participants cannot fulfill its obligation to deliver or receive the underlying security at the agreed upon price, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm is required to buy or sell the security in the open market to fulfill its obligation. In order to protect itself against a price movement in the value of the underlying security, or price risk, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm requires all participants to provide additional margin, which is valued on a daily basis and is maintained at a third-party custodian bank for the benefit of the clearing members and is accessible by NASDAQ OMX Stockholm in the event of default.  

Baltics. NASDAQ OMX Baltic operations comprise the exchanges in Tallinn (Estonia), Riga (Latvia) and Vilnius (Lithuania). During the first quarter of 2010, we acquired the remaining 7% minority holding in NASDAQ OMX Tallinn and an additional ownership stake of 0.4% in NASDAQ OMX Vilnius, both for immaterial amounts. As of December 31, 2010, NASDAQ OMX owns 100% of NASDAQ OMX Tallinn, 95% of NASDAQ OMX Vilnius and 93% of NASDAQ OMX Riga. In addition, NASDAQ OMX Tallinn owns 100% of the central securities depository in Estonia, NASDAQ OMX Riga owns 100% of the central securities depository in Latvia, and NASDAQ OMX Vilnius owns 40% of the central securities depository in Lithuania.  

The exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Baltic offer their members trading, clearing, payment and custody services. Issuers, primarily large local companies, are offered listing and a distribution network for their securities. The securities traded are mainly cash equities, bonds and treasury bills. Clearing, payment and custody services are offered through the central securities depositories in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. In addition, in Estonia and Latvia, NASDAQ OMX offers registry maintenance of fund units included in obligatory pension funds, and in Estonia, NASDAQ OMX offers the maintenance of shareholder registers for listed companies. The Baltic central securities depositories offer a complete range of cross-border settlement services.  

Pan-European. In the second quarter of 2010, we made a strategic decision to close the business of our pan-European multilateral trading facility NASDAQ OMX Europe, or NEURO. We retained our London office and data hub, where we support trading and market data clients, run the U.K. power exchange N2EX and manage our overseas listings operation. Our decision to close the business of NEURO will not have a significant impact on our future results of operations.  

Commodities Trading and Clearing. NASDAQ OMX Commodities offers derivatives and carbon products, operates a clearing business and offers consulting services to commodities markets globally. With our acquisition of Nord Pool, NASDAQ OMX Commodities’ offering now includes the world’s largest power derivatives exchange and one of Europe’s largest carbon exchanges.  

NASDAQ OMX Commodities has 361 members across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. NASDAQ OMX Commodities’ offering is designed for banks, brokers, hedge funds and other financial institutions, as well as power utilities, industrial, manufacturing and oil companies. NASDAQ OMX Commodities offers clearing services for energy derivative and carbon product contracts by serving as the CCP. Similar to derivative clearing and resale and repurchase agreement clearing on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm discussed above, through our clearing operations in the derivative markets with NASDAQ OMX Commodities, we are also the legal counterparty for each derivative position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. We also act as the counterparty for certain trades on OTC derivative contracts. The derivatives are not used by NASDAQ OMX Commodities for the purpose of trading on its own behalf. As the legal counterparty of each transaction, NASDAQ OMX Commodities bears the counterparty risk between the purchaser and seller in the contract. The counterparty risks are measured using models that are agreed to with the Financial Supervisory Authority of the applicable country, which require us to provide minimum guarantees and maintain certain levels of regulatory capital. NASDAQ OMX Commodities utilizes the same structure and operations as the derivative markets for NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, discussed above. Trading on the contracts can take place up until the delivery period which may occur over a period of several years.  

8  

Table of Contents 

In January 2010, NASDAQ OMX Commodities and Nord Pool Spot launched N2EX, a marketplace for physical UK power contracts.  

Access Services  

We provide market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. Shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems’ scalability without affecting performance or reliability.  

Our U.S. marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols. The Financial Information Exchange product that uses the FIX protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading firms and vendors, enables firms to leverage their existing FIX technology with cost-effective connections to our markets. Market participants may also access our systems using QIX, a proprietary programming interface that provides a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates, and computer-to-computer interface, a protocol that allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. Finally, firms may use former INET protocols, such as OUCH and RASH, to access our single trading platform. As an alternative to firm-developed trading front-end, our system offers the NASDAQ Workstation, an internet browser based interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports.  

We provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. These participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. We also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees.  

Market Data  

We earn Market Data revenues from U.S. tape plans and U.S. and European proprietary market data products.  

U.S. Tape Plans. The NASDAQ Stock Market operates as the exclusive Securities Information Processor of the UTP Plan for the collection and dissemination of best bid and offer information and last transaction information from markets that quote and trade in NASDAQ-listed securities. The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX are participants in the UTP Plan and share in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. In the role as the Securities Information Processor, The NASDAQ Stock Market collects and disseminates quotation and last sale information for all transactions in NASDAQ-listed securities whether traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market or other exchanges. We sell this information to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. After deducting costs associated with our role as an exclusive Securities Information Processor, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the UTP Plan, we distribute the tape revenues to the respective UTP Plan participants, including The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX, based on a formula required by Regulation NMS that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, all quotes and trades in NYSE- and NYSE Amex-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on NYSE- and NYSE Amex-listed securities.  

U.S. Market Data Products. Our market data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. We collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select third-party content. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. Our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. We earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data.  

9  

Table of Contents 

We distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products. We use our broad distribution network of more than 1,800 market data distributors to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. We offer a range of proprietary data products, including NASDAQ TotalView, our flagship market depth quote product. TotalView shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in The NASDAQ Stock Market for NASDAQ-listed securities and critical data for the Opening, Closing, Halt and IPO Crosses.  

TotalView is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. We also offer TotalView enterprise licenses to facilitate broad based distribution of this data. In addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee.  

We operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include:  

   •    NASDAQ Basic, launched in 2009, which offers a flexible and affordable way to provide customers with essential trading data of best bid and offer and last sale information;  

   •    NASDAQ Last Sale, which provides broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via Internet portals;  

   •    NASDAQ Market Replay, a powerful replay and analysis tool that allows users to view order book and trade data for NASDAQ, NYSE- and NYSE Amex-listed securities at any point in time;  

   •    NASDAQ OMX DataStore, which is designed to transform the market data industry through use of plug-and-play technology to deliver new proprietary information content;  

   •    Mutual Fund Quotation Service, a service for over 26,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds;  

   •    Mutual Fund Dissemination Service, which is a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds;  

   •    Global Index Dissemination Service, released in 2009, which is a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and ETFs;  

   •    RussellTick, released in 2010, which is a data feed that consolidates the distribution of the Russell family of indexes; and  

   •    Top of PHLX Options Plus Orders, or TOPO Plus Orders, which is a data product for the NASDAQ OMX PHLX options market.  

European Market Data Products. The exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic, NASDAQ OMX Baltic and NASDAQ OMX Commodities offer European market data products and services. These data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in European marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets.  

European market data products and services are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic, NASDAQ OMX Baltic and NASDAQ OMX Commodities for four classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. Revenues from European market data are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data.  

10  

Table of Contents 

We provide a wide range of data products including products in real-time, some with a time delay or in batch delivery. These products and services are packaged for market professionals as well as for private individuals, and include real-time information on market depth, specific transactions and share-price trends, the compilation and calculation of reference information such as indexes and the presentation of statistics.  

Significant European market data products include:  

   •    Nordic Equity TotalView, which provides full market insight into the order book, news and analysis data for all Nordic cash equities. The product also includes index values and weights and liquidity measure indicators;  

   •    Nordic Derivative Level 2, which provides listing details, trade information, derived information and order book information with the five best levels of bid and ask prices with the respective total quantity;  

   •    Nordic Fixed Income Level 2, which provides listing details, order book information, bid and ask quotes for up to five levels, trade information, derived information, indicative bid and ask quotes, daily turnover statistics and company disclosures; and  

   •    European Last Sale, which provides broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via Internet portals.  

Broker Services  

Our Broker Services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the Nordic market. Broker Services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, or SFSA. The primary services consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company’s back-office functions.  

We offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. Available services also include direct settlement with the Nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, or SWIFT, to deposit banks.  

Issuer Services  

Our Issuer Services segment includes our Global Listing Services and Global Index Group businesses. We offer capital raising solutions to companies around the globe and have more worldwide listings than any other global exchange group—approximately 3,600 companies representing approximately $5.7 trillion in total market value as of December 31, 2010.  

We operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. Our main listing markets are The NASDAQ Stock Market and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic. We offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, as well as NASDAQ Dubai.  

Global Listing Services  

Our Global Listing Services business includes our U.S. Listings, European Listings and Corporate Solutions businesses.  

U.S. Listings. Companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market represent a diverse array of industries including health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Companies seeking to list securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. Once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. The NASDAQ Stock Market currently has three listing tiers: The NASDAQ Global Select Market, The NASDAQ Global Market and The NASDAQ Capital Market. All three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing).  

As of December 31, 2010, a total of 2,778 companies listed securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market, with 1,323 listings on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, 975 on The NASDAQ Global Market and 480 on The NASDAQ Capital Market.  

We aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing IPOs as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. In 2010, The NASDAQ Stock Market attracted 195 new listings. Included in these listings were 89 IPOs, almost 47% of the total U.S. IPOs in 2010. The new listings were comprised of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In 2010, the following three NYSE-listed companies switched to The NASDAQ Stock Market, representing $9.6 billion in market capitalization: Hasbro, Inc., Avis Budget Group, Inc. and Potlatch Corporation. A total of eight companies switched from NYSE Amex and one company switched from NYSE Arca to The NASDAQ Stock Market in 2010.  

European Listings. We also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic. For smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the NASDAQ OMX First North alternative marketplaces. As of December 31, 2010, a total of 780 companies listed securities on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and NASDAQ OMX First North. Measured in terms of the market capitalization of listed companies, as of December 31, 2010, NASDAQ OMX Nordic was the second largest marketplace in Europe for IT companies, the largest marketplace in the world for the paper industry, the second largest marketplace in the world for apparel retail companies and third largest marketplace in the world for the industrial machinery industry.  

Our European listing customers are organizations such as companies, funds or governments. Customers issue securities in the forms of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, ETFs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds and fixed-income related products. In 2010, a total of 25 new companies were listed on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and NASDAQ OMX First North.  

Corporate Solutions. Our Corporate Solutions business provides customer support services, products and programs to companies, including companies listed on our exchanges. Through our Corporate Solutions offerings, companies gain access to innovative products and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, maximize board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. We provide corporate solutions in the following key areas of focus:  

   •    Investor Relations. We provide industry-leading investor relations and news distribution products designed to make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements.  

   •    Market Monitoring. We offer unique proprietary services that help companies monitor their stock and track peer performance.  

12  

Table of Contents 

   •    Board Practice. We offer management solutions to ensure board member effectiveness.  

   •    Global Visibility. We provide ways for companies to increase their visibility through our MarketSite offerings and access to discounts and special offers from other listed companies.  

   •    PORTAL. In addition to traditional public offerings, SEC Rule 144A provides public and private companies with another option for effectively raising capital at a lower cost and with fewer regulatory hurdles. We have managed the process to designate SEC Rule 144A unregistered securities as PORTAL securities since 1990.  

In December 2010, we completed our acquisition of ZVM, a provider of webcasting and investor relations communication services for companies in the Nordic region. ZVM, which is the leading provider of webcasting services in Northern Europe, will add to the growing range of capabilities and services NASDAQ OMX offers public and private companies in the U.S. and Europe.  

Global Index Group  

We are one of the world’s leading index providers. We develop and license NASDAQ OMX branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our Global Index Group. We believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the NASDAQ OMX brand. License fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. In addition to generating licensing revenues, these products, particularly mutual funds and ETFs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on our global exchanges, which enhances our ability to attract new listings. We also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes.  

Our flagship index, the NASDAQ-100 Index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market. With the launch of new index families such as the Green Economy and Sharia families, we now have over 1,600 diverse indexes, with 238 launched in 2010. NASDAQ OMX indexes are the basis for over 2,900 structured products in 27 countries. In 2010, product sponsors launched 24 ETFs based on NASDAQ OMX indexes. We also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes.  

Market Technology  

Powering more than 70 markets in over 50 countries, we are the world’s leading technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. Our technology business is also the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces.  

Technology Solutions. The systems solutions we offer support trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination for markets with wide ranging requirements, from smaller African markets to the leading markets in the US, Europe and Asia. Furthermore, the solutions we offer can handle all classes of assets, including cash equities, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and derivatives on any of these assets. 

NASDAQ OMX’s technology solutions are utilized by, among others, the Australian Securities Exchange, Bolsa de Valores de Colombia, Egypt Stock Exchange, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, SIX Swiss Exchange, Singapore Exchanges and Tokyo Commodity Exchange.  

Our trading and market data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues and banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. In the post trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world.  

13  

Table of Contents 

Systems Integration, Operation and Support. A central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. Through our integration services, we can assume total responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. We also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution. By transferring the operation and support of systems to us, the customer can focus on its core operations and reduce its operational risk level. At the same time, economies of scale can be achieved, by allowing the customer access to existing, effective technology and infrastructure.  

Advisory Services. Our advisory services are designed to support our customers’ strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. Operating our own exchanges and partnering with global marketplaces, we continually gain insight on developments in the financial world. We understand first-hand how marketplaces operate, the challenges they face and the complex technology infrastructures that support them. Our consultants have deep experience in strategy, operations and change management, and are backed by the combined knowledge of NASDAQ OMX as well as a network of external experts in the exchange industry.  

Surveillance. In August 2010, we completed our acquisition of SMARTS, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. This acquisition is part of our strategy to diversify our Market Technology business and enter the broker surveillance and compliance market. We believe that this acquisition will strengthen our position as the leading technology partner to marketplaces worldwide.  

Core Technology. Technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth and reliability of financial markets. At NASDAQ OMX, we are committed to innovation through technology to ensure our position as a driving force in the exchange industry and to provide the best possible trading experience for our customers and investors. Investment decisions are made based on customer needs and general market trends.  

We continuously improve our core technology with a focus on reducing latency and improving capacity and reliability. NASDAQ OMX’s next generation technology is capable of handling multi-million messages per second at an average speed of sub-100 microseconds, currently the fastest of any exchange or alternative trading system in the world.  

The foundation for NASDAQ OMX’s core technology is INET. The INET technology is used across NASDAQ OMX’s U.S. and European markets. INET is also the main building block of our Market Technology offering, Genium INET. Genium INET combines innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers, as well as our own marketplaces.  

Intellectual Property  

We own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and in foreign countries. For example, our primary “NASDAQ” mark is a registered trademark in the United States and in over 50 other countries worldwide and the OMX trademark also has been registered worldwide. We also have trademark registrations for the most important trade names of NASDAQ OMX Nordic and our operations in Europe. Many of these trademarks are registered in a number of countries. An example of the registered trademarks used in our European operations include: OMX, GENIUM, Genium INET, SECUR, CLICK XT and EXIGO.  

We also maintain copyright protection in our NASDAQ-branded materials and pursue patent protection for NASDAQ OMX-developed inventions and processes. We focus on gaining patent protection for the software functionality that we develop in order for us to fully benefit from our research and development investments. We accomplish this through the evaluation of inventions, the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications for inventions deemed worthwhile to pursue, the maintenance of granted patents, the coordination of information within the organization about patents and the monitoring of competitors for possible use of patented information.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Competition  

Market Services. The cash equity securities markets are intensely competitive. We compete in the U.S. against NYSE Euronext, BATS Global Markets, Direct Edge, regional exchanges and alternative trading systems, or ATSs. In Europe, our major competitors include NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Börse, the London Stock Exchange Group plc, or LSE, the Spanish Exchanges, SIX Swiss Exchange, and multilateral trading facilities, or MTFs, such as Chi-X and BATS Europe, which are similar to U.S. ATSs. Competition also comes from broker-dealers and from off-board or OTC trading in the U.S. and elsewhere.  

In bond trading, we compete in Europe with alternative marketplaces such as EuroMTS Limited. For derivatives products, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place OTC, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. The competitive significance in Europe of these varied alternative trading venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in Europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or MiFID, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services.  

Competition is based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of liquidity, the quality of value-added customer services, reputation and the direct cost of trade execution.  

Cash equity securities trading. The U.S. marketplace continues to evolve as the number of exchanges increases and less heavily regulated broker-owned trading systems and ATSs, known collectively as dark pools, expand in number and activity. While many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of cash equity order volume through aggressive pricing, through interconnections with other systems, and from volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors. Broker-dealer owned systems continued the rapid growth that began in 2009 throughout 2010. In addition, there remains interest in electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as LiquidNet, Pipeline Trading and Investment Technology Group’s POSIT platform. During 2010, three new exchange competitors to NASDAQ OMX appeared. In July 2010, Direct Edge received SEC approval to operate its two markets (EDGA and EDGX) as exchanges and in October 2010, BATS launched a second exchange (BATS-Y). During 2010, NASDAQ OMX also launched its third cash equity exchange, NASDAQ OMX PSX, to provide a third alternative combination of pricing and features. Finally, 2010 saw two significant regulatory events that could result in significant changes in the competitive landscape: the SEC published a market structure concept release early in 2010 and the May 6th “flash crash” accelerated rulemaking intended to prevent repeat of that day’s extreme price changes. Rules concerning halting trading during volatile markets, market access, algorithmic (high frequency) trading, alternative trading systems such as dark pools, and other market structure issues could change the competitive landscape by helping or hurting NASDAQ OMX or its competitors’ business models.  

The European landscape is continuing to adapt to the competitive forces released by MiFID in November 2007. Throughout Europe, new MTFs have been created with the most prominent MTFs (Chi-X, Turquoise, and BATS) based in the United Kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. MTFs continue to grow their business in shares listed on our Nordic exchanges. Trade reporting alternatives to incumbent exchanges, such as Markit BOAT, or BOAT, also continue to be active. Electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business have long been active in Europe and are looking to grow their businesses. In the Nordics, the Burgundy MTF grew modestly in 2010 and plans to expand its business in 2011. These entrants pursue many of the same strategies to attract order flow as do ATSs in the U.S., which include attractive pricing, participant investment, technological innovation and pursuit of exchange status. Because of the success of the new entrants, incumbent exchanges have lowered prices, adopted new technology, and prepared to compete aggressively for trading volumes and revenue. While the state of competition in Europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges will remain intense.  

As a result of the conditions in the U.S. and Europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. Many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their  

15  

Table of Contents 

 customers. As a result of this competition, we significantly reduced the trade execution transaction fees we charge our customers in the past, particularly our large-volume customers. We periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive.  

Derivatives. Our principal competitors for trading options in the U.S. include the Chicago Board Options Exchange, or CBOE, the International Securities Exchange, or ISE, NYSE ARCA, NYSE Amex and the Boston Options Exchange, or BOX. Competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing, and speed of execution. NASDAQ OMX operates two options exchanges with different market structures. NASDAQ OMX PHLX operates a pro-rata hybrid electronic and floor based exchange and competes most directly with CBOE, ISE, NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex. The NASDAQ Options Market operates a price/time priority exchange and competes most directly with NYSE ARCA and BOX. Both BATS and the CBOE launched new options exchanges in 2010, with BATS being somewhat similar to The NASDAQ Options Market. The further intensifying of competition for exchange traded options means that we must continuously review our technology and pricing.  

MiFID does not address competition between derivatives markets to the extent that it addresses cash equities trading and consequently has been slower to affect competition in trading derivative securities. Exchange based competition for trading in European derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our competition for options on European equities is primarily with EUREX Group, NYSE Liffe, EDX London Limited, or EDX, and, to a limited extent, the U.S. options exchanges. Such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. In addition to exchange based competition in derivatives, we continue to face competition from OTC derivative markets.  

As trading in Europe evolves under the current review of the original MiFID legislation, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. Both current and potential competition require us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive.  

Clearing. In both the U.S. and Europe, cash equity clearing has been organized along national lines. Typically, a single clearinghouse would serve essentially all cash equity trading involving securities listed on exchanges within a nation’s borders. Some countries, such as Sweden, did not have a clearinghouse until 2009. In some countries, such as the U.S., the clearinghouse is part of the same organization as the Central Securities Depository, or CSD. In some, such as Germany, the clearinghouse and the stock exchange are part of the same corporate structure, and in others, such as the U.K., the clearinghouse, exchange, and CSD are separate. Furthermore, there is a much shorter history of using CCP services in European clearing than in the U.S. Regardless of past practice, competition is beginning to come to the clearing business in response to the European Code of Conduct in Clearing and Settlement in Europe and initiatives by NASDAQ OMX in the U.S. At this time, competition in clearing in Europe remains limited with a few new non-national clearinghouses such as EMCF, X-Clear and EuroCCP serving non-national multilateral trading facilities or offering alternative clearing facilities for trades executed on incumbent exchanges.  

In the U.S., competition in equity clearing has been legislatively called for since 1975 but only recently have technological advances made competitive clearing in the U.S. a viable possibility. Should clearing competition become a vibrant reality in the U.S., it may have an impact on equity trading and on our business as clearing is a non-trivial cost of trade execution. We believe that the clearing business in both the U.S. and Europe would benefit from competition. Even as a 22% equity owner of EMCF, one of the largest cash equities clearinghouses in Europe, we support interoperability of cash equities clearinghouses, which will foster a healthy competition among cash equities clearinghouses in Europe.  

Market data services. The market data business in the U.S. includes both consolidated and proprietary data products. Consolidated data products are distributed by SEC-mandated consolidators (one for NASDAQ-listed  

16  

Table of Contents 

 stocks and another for NYSE and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. Proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange’s systems. In Europe, all market data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator.  

Our revenues from the sale of consolidated market data products and services are under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade NASDAQ-listed securities. Current SEC regulations permit these regional exchanges and FINRA’s Alternative Display Facility to quote and trade NASDAQ-listed securities. Trade reporting facilities regulated by FINRA are also operated by The NASDAQ Stock Market and other exchanges. The UTP Plan entitles these exchanges, FINRA’s Alternative Display Facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of UTP Plan tape fees, based on the formula required by Regulation NMS that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, The NASDAQ Stock Market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on NYSE- and NYSE Amex-listed securities for those respective tape plans.  

Participants in the tape plans have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. In January 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the Nasdaq General Revenue Sharing Program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to The NASDAQ Stock Market. We continuously evaluate and refine both programs. To remain competitive, in July 2006 and in January 2008, we changed the terms of the program and established a new Nasdaq Data Revenue Sharing Program. In December 2010, we again changed the terms of the program effective January 2011. We may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures.  

The sale of our proprietary data products in both the U.S. and Europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products, sometimes at a lower price or free of charge. Our market data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. Consequently, our data products must be competitive in speed, reliability, content and price to succeed in the marketplace. New exchanges and trading systems entering the market have recognized the strong connection between market data and transactions volume and new entrants typically price their market data very aggressively in order to grow transactions volume, thereby limiting our flexibility in pricing market data. Any action by a market participant to provide information to another exchange or market data vendor could have a negative impact on our data products. The market data business must also adapt to rapidly changing information delivery technologies and constantly invest in innovative product design and development. Other market data providers may not face the regulatory obligations we face and may consequently be more flexible in pricing and more agile in deploying new products and business methods to our detriment. The growth of the number of proprietary data feeds offered by NASDAQ OMX and other exchanges has also increased the reluctance of some data vendors to add new feeds to their product offerings which further complicates exchanges’ efforts to expand their market data offerings.  

Listings. Our primary competitor for larger company listings in the U.S. on The NASDAQ Stock Market is the NYSE. The NASDAQ Stock Market also competes with NYSE Amex for listing of smaller companies and the BATS and DirectEdge exchanges have announced their intention to compete for listings in the future. The NASDAQ Stock Market also competes with local and overseas markets for listings by companies that choose to list outside of their home country.  

The listings business in Europe is characterized by the large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. Each country has one or more national exchanges that are often the first choice of companies in the respective countries. For those considering an alternative, the European exchanges that attract the most overseas listings are LSE, NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Börse and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic. In addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities, such as LSE’s Alternative Investment Market, Euronext’s Alternext, Deutsche Börse’s Entry Standard, Borsa Italiana’s Expandi Market, PLUS Markets plc, the Pink Sheets LLC and the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. Other exchanges in Sweden include the Nordic Growth Market and Aktietorget, which primarily serve companies with small market capitalizations.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Indexes. The NASDAQ Stock Market is subject to intense competition for the listing of financial products from other exchanges. The indexes on which these products are based face competition from indexes created by a large number of index providers. For example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the NASDAQ-100 Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index. We face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs.  

Market Technology. The traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally sometimes aided by consultants, is evolving as many operators recognize the enormous cost savings made possible by buying technology already developed. Two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including NYSE Euronext and LSE, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. These organizations offer a range of off-the-shelf technology including trading, clearing, settlement, depository and information dissemination. They also offer customization and operation expertise. NASDAQ OMX provides technology to over 70 exchanges and exchange-related businesses worldwide and in 2010 expanded its offering in compliance services by acquiring SMARTS.  

Regulation  

We are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and Europe.  

U.S. Regulation  

U.S. federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. The SEC occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing the federal securities laws. Self-Regulatory Organizations, or SROs, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. SROs, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the SEC and are subject to the SEC’s extensive regulation and oversight.  

This regulatory framework applies to our U.S. business in the following ways:  

   •    regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and  

   •    regulation of our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries.  

The rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. These rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, although we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. U.S. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change.  

Regulation of U.S. Exchanges. SROs in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. The Exchange Act and the rules thereunder impose on the SROs many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. In general, an SRO is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members.  

With the registration of The NASDAQ Stock Market as a national securities exchange in 2006, we received our own SRO status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of FINRA. With the acquisitions of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and the Boston Stock Exchange, we acquired additional SRO licenses. As SROs, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. Broker-dealers that choose to become members of The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, and/or NASDAQ OMX BX are subject to the rules of those exchanges. Broker-dealers may also choose other SRO memberships, including membership in FINRA.  

18  

Table of Contents 

All of our U.S. national securities exchanges are subject to SEC oversight, as prescribed by the Exchange Act, including periodic and special examinations by the SEC. Our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the SEC or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. We are also subject to Section 17 of the Exchange Act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the SEC for examination. We have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the SEC or external auditors in the ordinary course and because of settlements with the SEC. To the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business.  

Section 19 of the Exchange Act provides that our exchanges must submit to the SEC proposed changes to any of the SROs’ rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute SRO rules. The SEC will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the SEC may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. The SEC’s action is designed to ensure that applicable SRO rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. In addition, pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, our exchanges must file all proposals to change their pricing structure with the SEC.  

NASDAQ OMX currently operates three cash equities and two options markets in the United States. We operate The NASDAQ Stock Market and The NASDAQ Options Market pursuant to The NASDAQ Stock Market’s SRO license; the NASDAQ OMX BX cash equities market pursuant to the NASDAQ OMX BX SRO license; and the NASDAQ OMX PSX cash equities market and the NASDAQ OMX PHLX options market pursuant to the NASDAQ OMX PHLX SRO license. In addition, NASDAQ OMX BX regulates the BOX Market, pursuant to a regulatory services agreement between a subsidiary of NASDAQ OMX BX and BOX. NASDAQ OMX does not have an ownership interest in BOX, and BOX compensates NASDAQ OMX BX based on the cost of the regulatory services provided to BOX.  

FINRA provides regulatory services to the markets operated or regulated by The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NASDAQ OMX BX, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. We have a limited direct regulatory role in conducting real-time market monitoring, certain options surveillance, rulemaking and some membership functions through our MarketWatch department. We refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff and all other employees of the markets operated or regulated by The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NASDAQ OMX BX to FINRA for further investigation.  

Broker-dealer regulation. NASDAQ OMX’s broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC, the SROs and the various state securities regulators. Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from The Nasdaq Stock Market to other venues for execution. NASDAQ Options Services, LLC performs a comparable function with respect to routing of orders from The NASDAQ Options Market and NASDAQ OMX PHLX.  

Nasdaq Execution Services is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is also a member of The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, NYSE, NYSE Amex, NYSE Arca, FINRA, BATS Exchange, CBOE, Chicago Stock Exchange, ISE and the National Stock Exchange.  

NASDAQ Options Services is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is also a member of The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, FINRA, NYSE Amex, BOX, ISE, NYSE Arca, CBOE and BATS Exchange.  

The SEC, NYSE and FINRA adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. The SEC, SROs and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or  

19  

Table of Contents 

 expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. The SEC and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. The SEC and SRO rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer’s business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers’ purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. All broker-dealers have an SRO that is assigned by the SEC as the broker-dealer’s designated examining authority, or DEA. The DEA is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the SEC’s financial responsibility rules. FINRA is the current DEA for both Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services.  

As registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which requires that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. The SEC and FINRA impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the Uniform Net Capital Rule and FINRA rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC and FINRA for certain withdrawals of capital.  

As of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all of such capital requirements.  

Regulatory contractual relationships with FINRA. The NASDAQ Stock Market, The NASDAQ Options Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, NASDAQ OMX PSX and NASDAQ OMX BX have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services FINRA provides to the respective SROs, including some of the regulatory services we perform for BOX. Under these agreements, FINRA personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and FINRA bills us a fee for these services. These agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. However, our SROs retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by FINRA. In addition, our options markets have entered into a joint agreement with the other options exchanges for conducting insider trading surveillance. Our SROs continue to monitor the activities conducted under the agreement and continue to have regulatory responsibility in this area.  

Exchange Act Rule 17d-2 permits SROs to enter into agreements, commonly called Rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the SEC with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. Our SROs have entered into several such agreements under which we are relieved of regulatory responsibility:  

   •    agreements with FINRA covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and the members of these exchanges;  

   •    joint industry agreements with FINRA and NYSE Regulation covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules;  

   •    joint industry agreement with FINRA covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and  

   •    joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices.  

Regulation NMS and Options Intermarket Linkage Plan. We are subject to Regulation NMS for our cash equities markets, and our options markets have joined the Options Intermarket Linkage Plan. These are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the Exchange Act. One of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors’ orders at the best market price. Both Regulation NMS and the Options Intermarket Linkage Plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order.  

20  

Table of Contents 

CFTC Regulation. With the acquisition of PHLX, we also acquired its subsidiary, NASDAQ OMX Futures Exchange, Inc. (formerly the Philadelphia Board of Trade), a designated contract market under the Commodity Exchange Act. As a designated contract market, NFX is subject to regulatory oversight by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and option markets in the U.S. NFX currently lists futures contracts on stock indexes, foreign currencies and interest rate swaps. The National Futures Association, or NFA, provides certain regulatory services to NFX pursuant to a Regulatory Services Agreement. The CFTC also regulates IDCH, a derivatives clearing organization under the Commodity Exchange Act that is wholly owned by IDCG. IDCH clears interest rate swap futures contracts listed by NFX as well as interest rate swaps traded in the OTC market. NFA also provides regulatory services to IDCH.  

European Regulation  

Recent directives from the European Union have focused on harmonizing regulation with respect to financial services, listing and trading of securities and market abuse. Currently, there are proposals on regulation in relation to CCP services and OTC derivatives transactions. These are providing opportunities for companies such as ours. As the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to use our position in the industry to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading.  

Confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. NASDAQ OMX Nordic carries out market regulation through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. The surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). The real-time trading surveillance for the Finnish, Icelandic, Danish and Swedish markets has been centralized to Stockholm. In Iceland, the surveillance activities are carried out by specially appointed persons. In addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three Baltic exchanges. There are three surveillance committees at NASDAQ OMX Nordic, one at each NASDAQ OMX Nordic exchange in Sweden, Finland and Denmark. These committees have an advisory role in relation to surveillance matters. In Sweden and Finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the listing committees of the exchanges. In Denmark and Iceland, listing decisions are made by the President of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen and NASDAQ OMX Iceland, respectively.  

If there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. Serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in Sweden and Finland. In Denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. In Iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. Suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries.  

The entities that operate trading venues in the Nordic and Baltic countries are each subject to local regulation. In Sweden, general supervision of the exchange market operated by NASDAQ OMX Stockholm is carried out by the SFSA, while NASDAQ OMX Stockholm’s role as central counterparty in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the SFSA and the Swedish central bank, Riksbanken. Additionally, as a function of the Swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division.  

NASDAQ OMX Stockholm’s exchange and clearing activities are regulated primarily by the Swedish Securities Markets Act 2007:528, or SSMA, which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange or clearinghouse and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange and clearing licenses are issued. The SSMA also provides that any changes to the exchange’s articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the SFSA.  

21  

Table of Contents 

With respect to ongoing operations, the SSMA requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an “honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets.” When operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange’s rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). Additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks which may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest which may arise between the exchange or its owners’ interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. Similar requirements are set up by the SSMA in relation to clearing operations.  

The SSMA also contains the framework for both the SFSA’s supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. The latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have “an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange’s obligations.” That requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities.  

The regulatory environment in the other Nordic and Baltic countries in which a NASDAQ OMX entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in Sweden. Since 2005, there has been a Memorandum of Understanding between the SFSA and the main supervisory authorities in Norway, Denmark and Finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2010, NASDAQ OMX had 2,395 employees, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest. Of the total employees, 1,313 were based in the U.S. and 1,082 were based outside of the U.S. None of our U.S. employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. Approximately 106 employees based in Denmark and Finland are covered by local union agreements.  

NASDAQ OMX Website and Availability of SEC Filings  

We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (such as us). The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov.  

Our website is www.nasdaqomx.com. Information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K. We will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q and Forms 8-K and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to NASDAQ OMX’s website and click on “Investor Relations,” then click on “Financial Information,” and then click on “SEC Filings.”  

We use our website, www.nasdaqomx.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.