Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Financial Instruments

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments, derivatives, marketable securities and accounts receivable. We believe we had no significant concentrations of credit risk as of December 28, 2014.

We use derivative instruments as part of our risk management strategy only, and include derivatives utilized as economic hedges that are not designated as hedging instruments. By nature, all financial instruments involve market and credit risks. We enter into derivative instruments with major investment grade financial institutions and have policies to monitor the credit risk of those counterparties. We do not enter into derivative contracts for trading or other speculative purposes, nor do we use leveraged financial instruments. Approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the United States, generally in foreign currencies. Therefore, the fluctuations in foreign currency can increase the costs of financing, investing and operating the business.

In the ordinary course of business, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts for periods consistent with our committed exposures to mitigate the effect of foreign currency movements on transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Transactions covered by hedge contracts include intercompany and third-party receivables and payables. The contracts are primarily denominated in European and Asian currencies, have maturities that do not exceed 12 months, have no cash requirements until maturity, and are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. Unrealized gains and losses on our foreign currency contracts are recognized immediately in earnings for hedges designated as fair value and, for hedges designated as cash flow, the related unrealized gains or losses are deferred as a component of other comprehensive income in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Deferred gains and losses are recognized in income in the period in which the underlying anticipated transaction occurs and impacts earnings. 

Principal hedged currencies include the British Pound, Euro, Japanese Yen and Singapore Dollar. We held forward foreign exchange contracts, designated as fair value hedges, with U.S. dollar equivalent notional amounts totaling $95.0 million at December 28, 2014, $138.4 million at December 29, 2013 and $64.3 million at December 30, 2012, and the fair value of these foreign currency derivative contracts was insignificant. The gains and losses realized on foreign currency derivative contracts are not material. The duration of these contracts was generally 30 days or less during fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012.

During fiscal year 2014, we entered into five forward foreign exchange contracts with settlement dates in fiscal year 2015 and combined Euro denominated notional amounts of €238.2 million, designated as cash flow hedges, that were intended to hedge movements in foreign exchange rates prior to settlement of certain intercompany loan agreements. The fair value of these currency derivative contracts at December 28, 2014 was not material. The unrealized gain, which was recorded in other 

51
comprehensive income, will be recognized in interest and other expense, net, in the period in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs and impacts earnings. Such amounts were not material for fiscal year 2014. During December 2012, we entered into forward foreign exchange contracts with settlement dates in fiscal year 2013 and combined Euro denominated notional amounts of €50.0 million, designated as cash flow hedges. During fiscal year 2013, we settled these Euro denominated forward foreign exchange contracts. The derivative gains were recognized in the period in which the underlying hedged exposures occurred and impacted earnings, and were recorded in interest and other expense, net. Such amounts were not material for fiscal year 2013.

In May 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 Notes, and recognized $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive income. During each of fiscal years 2013 and 2012, we amortized a pre-tax loss of $2.0 million into interest and other expense, net. In addition, during fiscal year 2013, we redeemed all of our 2015 Notes and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million for the remaining unamortized derivative losses into interest and other expense, net.

Market Risk

Market Risk. We are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures.

Foreign Exchange Risk. The potential change in foreign currency exchange rates offers a substantial risk to us, as approximately 60% of our business is conducted outside of the United States, generally in foreign currencies. Our risk management strategy currently uses forward contracts to mitigate certain balance sheet foreign currency transaction exposures. The intent of these economic hedges is to offset gains and losses that occur on the underlying exposures, with gains and losses resulting from the forward contracts that hedge these exposures. Moreover, we are able to partially mitigate the impact that fluctuations in currencies have on our net income as a result of our manufacturing facilities located in countries outside the United States, material sourcing and other spending which occur in countries outside the United States, resulting in natural hedges.

Although we attempt to manage our foreign currency exchange risk through the above activities, when the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be positively but not proportionately impacted. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies in which we transact business, sales and net income will in general be negatively but not proportionately impacted.

Foreign Currency Risk—Value-at-Risk Disclosure. We utilize a Value-at-Risk model to determine the potential earning/fair value exposures presented by our foreign currency related financial instruments. As discussed above, we seek to minimize this exposure through our hedging program. Our Value-at-Risk computation is based on the Monte Carlo simulation, utilizing a 95% confidence interval and a holding period of 30 days. As of December 28, 2014, this computation estimated that there is a 5% chance that the market value of the underlying exposures and the corresponding derivative instruments either increase or decrease due to foreign currency fluctuations by more than $0.5 million. This Value-At-Risk measure is consistent with our financial statement disclosures relative to our foreign currency hedging program. Specifically, during each of the four quarters ended in fiscal year 2014, the Value-At-Risk ranged between $0.2 million and $0.9 million, with an average of approximately $0.5 million.

Interest Rate Risk. As described above in “Item 7. Liquidity and Capital Resources,” our debt portfolio includes variable rate instruments. Fluctuations in interest rates can therefore have a direct impact on both our short-term cash flows, as they relate to interest, and our earnings. To manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we periodically enter into various derivative transactions pursuant to our policies to hedge against known or forecasted interest rate exposures.

In May 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 2015 Notes, and recognized $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive income. During each of fiscal years 2013 and 2012, we amortized a pre-tax loss of $2.0 million into interest and other expense, net. In addition, during fiscal year 2013, we redeemed all of our 2015 Notes and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.8 million for the remaining unamortized derivative losses into interest and other expense, net. 

52
Interest Rate Risk—Sensitivity. As of December 28, 2014, our debt portfolio consisted of $516.0 million of variable rate debt. In addition, our cash and cash equivalents, for which we receive interest at variable rates, were $174.8 million at December 28, 2014. Our current earnings exposure for changes in interest rates can be summarized as follows:

(i) Changes in interest rates can cause interest charges on our variable rate debt, consisting of $516.0 million of revolving debt facilities, to fluctuate. An increase of 10%, or approximately 13 basis points, in current interest rates would cause an additional pre-tax charge to our earnings of $0.7 million for fiscal year 2015.

(ii) Changes in interest rates can cause our cash flows relative to interest payments on variable rate debt to fluctuate. As described above, an increase of 10%, or approximately 13 basis points, in current interest rates would cause our cash outflows to increase by $0.7 million for fiscal year 2015.

(iii) Changes in interest rates can cause our interest income and cash flows to fluctuate.

53
Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplemental Data