ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    

 Our primary source of market risk is the difference between prices received from the sale of refined products and the prices paid for crude oil and other feedstocks. We have a risk management committee responsible for, among other things, reviewing a quarterly assessment of risks to the corporation and presenting a quarterly risk report to executive management for consideration.  

 Commodity Price Risks  

 Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin relative to fixed and variable expenses (including the costs of crude oil and other feedstocks) and the margin relative to those expenses at which we are able to sell refined products. The prices of crude oil and refined products have fluctuated substantially in recent years. These prices depend on many factors, including the global supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline and other refined products, which in turn depend on, among other factors, changes in the global economy, the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products, geo-political conditions, the availability of imports of crude oil and refined products, the marketing of alternative and competing fuels and the impact of government regulations. The prices we receive for refined products are also affected by local factors such as local market conditions and the level of operations of other suppliers in our markets.  

 Prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. Generally, an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil results in a corresponding increase or decrease in the price of gasoline and other refined products. However, the prices for crude oil and prices for our refined products can fluctuate in different directions based on global market conditions. The timing, direction and the overall change in refined product prices versus crude oil prices will impact profit margins and could have a significant impact on our earnings and cash flows. In addition, the majority of our crude oil supply contracts are short-term agreements priced at market. Our financial results can be affected significantly by price level changes during the period between purchasing refinery feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from such feedstocks. We also purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers. Our financial results can be affected significantly by price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling such refined products. Assuming all other factors remained constant, a $1.00 per barrel change in average gross refining margins, based on our 2008 average throughput of 595 Mbpd, would change annualized pretax operating income by approximately $217 million.  

 We maintain inventories of crude oil, intermediate products and refined products, the values of which are subject to fluctuations in market prices. Our inventories of refinery feedstocks and refined products totaled 24 million barrels and 29 million barrels at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average cost of our refinery feedstocks and refined products at December 31, 2008 was approximately $29 per barrel on a LIFO basis, compared to market prices of approximately $49 per barrel. If market prices decline to a level below the average cost of these inventories, we would be required to write down the carrying value of our inventory.  

 We periodically enter into non-trading derivative arrangements primarily to manage exposure to price risks associated with the purchase and/or sale of crude oil and finished products involving inventories above our target levels. These derivative instruments typically involve exchange-traded futures and over-the-counter swaps, generally with durations of one year or less. Historically, we hedged less than 20% of our crude oil and products operating volumes. The crude oil hedges have primarily covered price risks of foreign crudes supplied to our Hawaii  

 54   
 and Golden Eagle refineries. A smaller percentage of the hedges covered West Coast intermediate and finished products. During the 2008 second quarter, we closed the majority of our crude oil derivative positions associated with our long-haul strategy that matched the price of long-haul crude oils to day of processing product margin. These closed positions did not have a further significant impact on earnings.  

 We mark to market our derivative instruments and recognize the changes in their fair values in earnings. We include the carrying amounts of our derivatives in “Prepayments and other” or “Accrued liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheet. We did not designate or account for any derivative instruments as hedges during 2008. Accordingly, no change in the value of the related underlying physical asset is recorded.  

 Net earnings during 2008 and 2007 included net losses of $106 million and $61 million, respectively, on our derivative positions comprised of the following (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our open positions at December 31, 2008 will expire at various times primarily during 2009. We prepared a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk associated with our derivative instruments. This analysis may differ from actual results. The fair value of each derivative instrument was based on quoted market prices. Based on our open net positions of 1 million barrels at December 31, 2008, a $1.00 per-barrel change in quoted market prices of our derivative instruments, assuming all other factors remain constant, would change the fair value of our derivative instruments and pretax operating income by $1 million.  

 55   
  ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA