ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS    

 The global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict.  

 The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an impact on our business. Recent declines in consumer and business confidence and spending, together with severe reductions in the availability and increases in the cost of credit and volatility in the capital and credit markets, have adversely affected the business and economic environment in which we operate. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners. The consequences of such adverse effects could include interruptions or delays in our suppliers’ performance of our contracts, reductions and delays in customer purchases, delays in or the inability of customers to obtain financing to purchase our products, and bankruptcy of customers. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.  

 The current worldwide financial crisis has reduced the availability of credit to fund or support the continuation and expansion of business operations worldwide. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. These conditions have not impaired our ability to finance our operations, but there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies that could negatively impact our access to credit. Continued disruption of the credit markets has affected and could continue to adversely affect our suppliers’ and customers’ access to credit which supports the continuation and expansion of their businesses worldwide and could result in disruptions in our business operations, contract cancellations or suspensions and payment delays or defaults by our customers.  

 In October 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. (“Lehman CPI”), a previous lender under our credit agreement with a $50 million commitment (less than 3% our total credit agreement capacity), filed for bankruptcy. Lehman CPI will not participate in any future requests for funding and it is not certain whether another lender might  

 17   
 assume its commitment. While the financial crisis could impact our ability to obtain future borrowings under our credit agreement if other lenders are forced into receivership or to file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to perform their obligations, we are unaware of any reason to believe this will happen.  

 The volatility of crude oil prices, refined product prices and natural gas and electrical power prices may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations.  

 Our earnings and cash flows from our refining and wholesale marketing operations depend on a number of factors, including fixed and variable expenses (including the cost of crude oil and other refinery feedstocks) and the margin relative to those expenses at which we are able to sell refined products. In recent years, the prices of crude oil and refined products have fluctuated substantially. These prices depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the global supply and demand for crude oil, gasoline and other refined products, which are subject to, among other things:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. We do not produce crude oil and must purchase all of our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates on worldwide market conditions. Generally, an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil affects the price of gasoline and other refined products. However, the prices for crude oil and prices for our refined products can fluctuate differently based on global and local market conditions. In addition, the timing of the relative movement of the prices (both among different classes of refined products and among various global markets for similar refined products) as well as the overall change in refined product prices, can reduce profit margins and could have a significant impact on our refining and wholesale marketing operations, earnings and cash flow. Also, crude oil supply contracts generally have market-responsive pricing provisions. We purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. We also purchase refined products manufactured by others for sale to our customers. Price level changes during the periods between purchasing and selling these refined products also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 Volatile prices for natural gas and electrical power used by our refineries and other operations affect manufacturing and operating costs. Natural gas and electricity prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets.  

 Our operations are subject to operational hazards that could expose us to potentially significant losses.  

 Our operations are subject to potential operational hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil and refined products, such as fires natural disasters, explosions, maritime disasters, labor disputes, security breaches, pipeline ruptures and spills and mechanical failure of equipment at our or third party facilities, any of which can result in business interruptions and damage to our properties and the properties of others. A serious accident at our facilities could also result in serious injury or death to our employees or contractors and could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk. In addition, we operate seven petroleum refineries, any of which could experience a major accident, be damaged by severe weather or other natural disaster, or otherwise be forced to shut down. Any such unplanned shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 18   
 While we carry property, casualty and business interruption insurance, we do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses, and we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 American International Group (“AIG”) is the lead underwriter for many of our coverages, but actually underwrites less than one-fourth of our aggregate coverage. The majority of our insurance coverage is underwritten by insurers other than AIG and its subsidiaries. AIG’s exposure to subprime mortgage securities and recent disruptions in the U.S. financial markets have adversely impacted AIG. AIG’s commercial insurance subsidiary had funds in excess of loss reserves and continued to be a fully accepted insurance carrier for major brokers at December 31, 2008. However, continued volatility in the U.S. financial markets and the financial condition of AIG may adversely impact the financial strength of AIG’s commercial insurance subsidiaries.  

 Our business is impacted by environmental risks inherent in refining operations.  

 The operation of refineries, pipelines and refined products terminals is inherently subject to the risks of spills, discharges or other inadvertent releases of petroleum or hazardous substances. If any of these events had previously occurred or occurs in the future in connection with any of our refineries, pipelines or refined products terminals, or in connection with any facilities to which we sent or send wastes or by-products for treatment or disposal, other than events for which we are indemnified, we could be liable for all costs and penalties associated with their remediation under federal, state and local environmental laws or common law, and could be liable for property damage to third parties caused by contamination from releases and spills. The penalties and clean-up costs that we may have to pay for releases or the amounts that we may have to pay to third parties for damage to their property, could be significant and the payment of these amounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 We operate in environmentally sensitive coastal waters where tanker, pipeline and refined product transportation operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. Our California, Mid-Pacific and Pacific Northwest refineries import crude oil and other feedstocks by tanker. Transportation of crude oil and refined products over water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and state laws in California, Hawaii, Washington and Alaska. Among other things, these laws require us to demonstrate in some situations our capacity to respond to a “worst case discharge” to the maximum extent possible. We have contracted with various spill response service companies in the areas in which we transport crude oil and refined products to meet the requirements of the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and state and foreign laws. However, there may be accidents involving tankers transporting crude oil or refined products, and response services may not respond to a “worst case discharge” in a manner that will adequately contain that discharge, or we may be subject to liability in connection with a discharge.  

 Our operations are subject to general environmental risks, expenses and liabilities which could affect our results of operations and changes in environmental regulations and other obligations relating to environmental matters could subject us to further risks, expenses and liabilities.  

 From time to time we have been, and presently are, subject to litigation and investigations with respect to environmental and related matters, including product liability claims related to the oxygenate Methyl Tertiary Butyl Ether (“MTBE”). We may become involved in further litigation or other proceedings, or we may be held responsible in any existing or future litigation or proceedings, the costs of which could be material.  

 We have in the past operated retail stations with underground storage tanks in various jurisdictions, and currently operate retail stations that have underground storage tanks in 15 states in the mid-continental and western United States. Federal and state regulations and legislation govern the storage tanks, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. The operation of underground storage tanks poses certain risks, including soil and groundwater contamination. Leaks from underground storage tanks which may occur at one or more of our retail stations, or which may have occurred at our previously operated retail stations, may impact soil or groundwater and could result in fines or civil liability for us.  

 19   
 Consistent with the experience of other U.S. refineries, environmental laws and regulations have raised operating costs and require significant capital investments at our refineries. We believe that existing physical facilities at our refineries are substantially adequate to maintain compliance with existing applicable laws and regulatory requirements. However, potentially material expenditures could be required in the future. For example, we may be required to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety, and energy laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. We also may be required to address information or conditions that may be discovered in the future and require a response. Future developments in federal laws and regulations governing environmental, health and safety and energy matters are currently especially difficult to predict due to the new President and Congress. These changes in the federal government may increase the likelihood that we will be subject to new laws, regulations and regulatory investigations.  

 Assembly Bill 32 (“AB 32”), California legislation that creates a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions and requires that the state return to 1990 emission levels by 2020, was passed by the California legislature and was signed by Governor Schwarzenegger on September 27, 2006. AB 32 focuses on using market mechanisms, such as offsets and cap-and-trade programs, to achieve the targets. Regulations under AB 32 requiring reductions in greenhouse gas emissions have not yet been promulgated. AB 32 specifies that any established greenhouse gas allowances will be assigned to the entity regulated under the cap. Implementation is slated to begin January 1, 2010 with full implementation to occur by 2020. The implementation and implications of AB 32 will take many years to realize, and we cannot predict at this time what impact, if any, AB 32 will have on our business.  

 Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) are in various phases of discussion or implementation. These include proposed federal legislation and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs, each of which have imposed or would impose reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. These actions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions program. These actions could also impact the consumption of refined products, thereby affecting our operations.  

 In December 2007, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act, which, among other things, modified the industry requirements for the Renewable Fuel Standard (“RFS”). This standard requires the total volume of renewable transportation fuels (including ethanol and biodiesel) sold or introduced in the U.S. to be 11.1 billion gallons in 2009 rising to 36 billion gallons by 2022. Both requirements could reduce demand growth for petroleum products in the future. In the near term, the RFS presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining and marketing industries and may require additional expenditures by us to accommodate increased ethanol use.  

 In August 2008, CARB proposed amendments to the predictive model for compliant gasoline in the state of California that decreases the allowable sulfur levels to a cap of 20 parts per million and allows for additional ethanol to be blended into gasoline. The requirements begin December 31, 2009 but may be postponed by individual companies until December 31, 2011 through the use of the Alternative Emission Reduction Plan which allows for the acquisition of emissions offsets from sources not directly related to petroleum fuel use. We expect both of our California refineries to be in compliance with the regulation by the 2009 deadline.  

 We are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on third-party transportation of crude oil and refined products.  

 Our Washington refinery receives all of its Canadian crude oil and delivers a high proportion of its gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel through third-party pipelines and the balance through marine vessels. Our Hawaii and Alaska refineries receive most of their crude oil and transport a substantial portion of their refined products through ships and barges. Our Utah refinery receives substantially all of its crude oil and delivers substantially all of its refined products through third-party pipelines. Our North Dakota refinery delivers substantially all of its refined products through a third-party pipeline system. Our Golden Eagle refinery receives approximately one-third of its crude oil through pipelines and the balance through marine vessels. Substantially all of our Golden Eagle refinery’s production is delivered through third-party pipelines, ships and barges. Our Los Angeles refinery receives California crudes through third-party pipelines and the balance of its crude supply through marine vessels.  

 20   
 Approximately two-thirds of our Los Angeles refinery’s production is delivered through third-party pipelines, terminals, ships and barges. In addition to environmental risks discussed above, we could experience an interruption of supply or an increased cost to deliver refined products to market if the ability of the pipelines or vessels to transport crude oil or refined products is disrupted because of accidents, governmental regulation or third-party action. A prolonged disruption of the ability of a pipeline or vessels to transport crude oil or refined product could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 Terrorist attacks and threats or actual war may negatively impact our business.  

 Our business is affected by global economic conditions and fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as actual or threatened terrorist attacks and acts of war. Terrorist attacks, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, including future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions impacting our suppliers or our customers or energy markets in general, may adversely impact our operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in the delivery of supplies and raw materials to us, delays in our delivery of refined products, decreased sales of our refined products and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets (which could include refineries such as ours) may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. These occurrences could significantly impact energy prices, including prices for our crude oil and refined products, and have a material adverse impact on the margins from our refining and wholesale marketing operations. In addition, significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. Any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 Our operating results are seasonal and generally are lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year.  

 Demand for gasoline is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets due to seasonal changes in highway traffic. As a result, our operating results for the first and fourth quarters are generally lower than for those in the second and third quarters.  

 Competition from companies that produce their own supply of feedstocks, have more extensive retail outlets, or have greater financial resources could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 We compete on a global basis with a number of integrated oil companies who produce crude oil, some of which is used in their refining operations. Unlike the major integrated oil companies, we obtain all of our feedstocks from unaffiliated sources. Because of their integrated operations and larger capitalization, these companies may be more flexible in responding to volatile industry or market conditions, such as shortages of crude oil and other feedstocks or extreme price fluctuations. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual customers.  

 We also face strong competition in the market for the sale of retail gasoline and merchandise. Our competitors include service stations operated by fully integrated major oil companies and other well-recognized national or regional retail outlets, often selling gasoline or merchandise at aggressively competitive prices.  

 Some of our competitors also have materially greater financial and other resources than we have. Such competitors have a greater ability to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of our industry. The actions of our competitors, along with changes in the supply and price of foreign imports, could lead to lower prices or reduced margins for the products we sell, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

  ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS    

 None.  

 21   
  ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS