Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  

Management believes the following points summarize several of the most relevant items necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporation’s (“Regions” or “the Company”) business, particularly regarding its 2012 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Capital  

Regulatory Capital—Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve. Currently, the minimum guidelines to be considered well-capitalized for Tier I capital and Total capital are 6.0 percent and 10.0 percent, respectively. At December 31, 2012, Regions’ Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios were 12.00 percent and 15.38 percent respectively. In addition, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators routinely supplement their assessment of capital adequacy based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, know as Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP). Although Federal banking regulators have not established minimum guidelines to be considered well-capitalized, the Tier 1 common equity ratio has been a key component in assessing capital adequacy under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) process. At December 31, 2012, Regions’ Tier 1 common equity ratio was 10.84 percent. In November 2012, the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency announced the guidelines for the 2013 CCAR review, the results of which will be released in March 2013.  

In addition, in 2010 the Basel Committee released Basel III, its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulations. The framework requires bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. Subsequently, in June 2012, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency issued proposed rules implementing the capital provisions set forth by the Basel III framework. Regions is in the process of evaluating the anticipated impact of the proposed rules for implementing Basel III, which will be phased in beginning in 2013 and is expected to be fully phased in by January 1, 2019. Based on Regions’ current understanding of the Basel III requirements, the Company’s estimated Basel III Tier 1 common ratio (non-GAAP) as of December 31, 2012 was approximately 8.87 percent, exceeding the Basel III minimum of 7 percent for Tier I common (non-GAAP). Similarly, based on Regions’ current understanding of the proposed rules related to the calculation of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) under Basel III, the Company anticipates being fully compliant upon finalization and implementation. As further clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation by U.S. banking regulators is pending, the ultimate impact of Basel III on Regions is not completely known at this time. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:  

   •    2012 Overview discussion in MD&A  

   •    Table 2 – “GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliation”  

   •    Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A  

   •    Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements  

Morgan Keegan—On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and related affiliates (“Morgan Keegan”) to Raymond James Financial, Inc.  

44  

Table of Contents 

 (“Raymond James”). The transaction, which closed on April 2, 2012, did not include Regions Investment Management Inc. (formerly known as Morgan Asset Management, Inc.) and Regions Trust. The total purchase price received by the Company was $1.2 billion. An estimated $15 million pre-tax gain on sale, which included a $256 million adjustment of liabilities to record the legal indemnification at fair value, was recorded in the second quarter of 2012 as a component of discontinued operations. Based upon the terms of the sale, additional pre-tax adjustments were made in the second half of 2012 increasing the gain by $4 million, bringing the total pre-tax gain on sale to $19 million. The transaction reduced the Company’s overall risk profile, provided substantial liquidity at the holding company level, and improved key capital ratios. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:  

   •    Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” to the consolidated financial statements  

   •    Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements  

Redemption of TARP and Warrant Repurchase—In April 2012, Regions completed its repurchase of $3.5 billion of Series A Preferred Stock issued under the U.S. Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program’s (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program. In addition to fully repaying the government’s investment, Regions paid a total of $592 million in dividends over a 15-quarter period. On an annual ongoing basis, the repurchase eliminated the payment of $175 million in annual dividends on these securities. The repurchase followed Regions’ successful completion of an $875 million common equity offering and the completion of its aforementioned sale of Morgan Keegan. In early May of 2012, Regions repurchased the warrant issued to the U.S Department of Treasury in relation to the TARP Capital Purchase Program, which provided the U.S Treasury Department the right to purchase 48.3 million common shares at $10.88 per share. Regions repurchased the warrant from the U.S. Treasury Department for $45 million. The warrant repurchase resulted in a reduction to additional paid-in capital in the second quarter but did not impact the results of operations. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:  

   •    Stockholders’ Equity section of MD&A  

   •    Note 14 “Stockholders’ Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)” to the consolidated financial statements  

Preferred Stock Issuance and Redemption of Trust Preferred Securities – During the fourth quarter of 2012, Regions issued $500 million of 6.375% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A. Following a notice by the Federal Reserve of proposed rulemaking which would phase out the Tier 1 capital treatment of trust preferred securities, Regions used a portion of the proceeds from the preferred stock issuance to redeem approximately $345 million of issued and outstanding 8.875% trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust III. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this form 10-K:  

   •    Note 2 “Variable Interest Entities” to the consolidated financial statements  

   •    Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements  

   •    Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements  

   •    Note 14 “Stockholders’ Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)” to the consolidated financials  

Liquidity  

At the end of 2012, Regions Bank had over $3.5 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve, the loan-to-deposit ratio was 78 percent and cash and cash equivalents at the parent company totaled $857 million. Regions’ internal minimum cash requirement utilizes a three step process that requires the parent to hold the greater of (1) two years of corporate dividends, debt service, and maturities by utilizing cash on hand, and the next four quarters’ expected dividend capacity from Regions Bank, (2) enough cash on hand with no upstream dividend capacity from Regions Bank to meet corporate dividends, debt service  

45  

Table of Contents 

 payments and maturities for the next 12 months or (3) a minimum balance of $500 million. At December 31, 2012, the Company’s borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $19.6 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) was $6.7 billion based on available collateral at the same date. Additionally, the Company has $14.4 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. The Board of Directors has also approved a bank note program which would allow Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion in aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. As of December 31, 2012, no issues have been made under this program. In addition, during the course of 2012 Regions received favorable results from the four major credit rating agencies. In the first half of 2012, Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) upgraded the credit ratings for each of the obligations of both Regions and Regions Bank and Dominion Bond Rating Service (“DBRS”) revised its outlook for Regions from negative to positive. In the latter half of 2012, Moody’s upgraded the long-term ratings of Regions and Regions Bank from Ba3 to Ba1 and from Ba2 to Baa3, respectively, and Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) revised its outlook for Regions from stable to positive. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:  

   •    Discussion of Short-Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A  

   •    Discussion of Long-Term Borrowings within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A  

   •    Ratings section of MD&A  

   •    Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A  

   •    Liquidity Risk section of MD&A  

   •    Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements  

   •    Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements  

Credit  

The economy has been and will be the primary factor which influences Regions’ loan portfolio. Throughout 2012 the economy continued to work through structural headwinds including commercial and consumer deleveraging, high unemployment, a weak housing market, and fiscal uncertainty at the local, state and national levels. In spite of the slow and uneven pace of the economic recovery, Regions experienced significant improvement in credit quality in both 2011 and 2012. Regions’ investor real estate loan portfolio, which includes credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, declined 28 percent in 2012 and totaled $7.7 billion as of December 31, 2012. In addition, the land, single-family and condominium components of the investor real estate portfolio, which have been the Company’s most distressed loans, declined 33 percent and ended the year at $1.2 billion. The reduction in investor real estate over the past few years has aided in a 42 percent decline in total gross inflows of non-performing loans in 2012. In addition, commercial and investor real estate criticized and classified loans, which are the Company’s earliest indicator of problem loans, declined 29 percent, and non-performing assets decreased 36 percent during 2012. These favorable trends contributed to a 47 percent decline in net charge-offs and an 86 percent decrease in the 2012 loan loss provision. The allowance for loan losses to total loans decreased to 2.59 percent as of December 31, 2012 from 3.54 percent as of December 31, 2011 and the coverage ratio of allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans was 1.14x as of December 31, 2012, compared to 1.16x as of December 31, 2011. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:  

   •    2012 Overview discussion in MD&A  

   •    Discussion of Allowance for Credit Losses within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of MD&A  

   •    Loans and Allowance for Credit Losses discussion within the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A  

46  

Table of Contents 

   •    Credit Risk section of MD&A  

   •    Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements  

Net Interest Income, Margin and Interest Rate Risk  

In 2012, the net interest margin from continuing operations expanded to 3.11 percent from 3.07 percent in 2011, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 0.30 percent in 2012 from 0.49 percent in 2011. Taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased $95 million to $3.4 billion in 2012, due primarily to a reduction in average earning assets from $112.2 billion in 2011 to $107.8 billion in 2012. Despite the continued improvements in deposit costs and mix, the margin and net interest income continue to be negatively affected by a sustained low interest rate, low growth environment. Reductions in average loans contributed to the decline in average earning assets and net interest income, partially offset by an increase in average securities from $24.6 billion in 2011 to $26.7 billion in 2012. The Company’s securities yield declined 53 basis points driven by higher prepayments in the residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio and reinvestment of proceeds into lower yielding securities. Loan yields, however, remained relatively stable at 4.24 percent as the Company began to see the benefits from migrating toward more consumer products, such as expanding indirect auto lending and re-entering credit cards, as well as reductions in the Company’s level of non-accrual loans. If current economic conditions persist into 2013, growing net interest income and the resulting net interest margin will continue to be challenging. However, management believes opportunities exist to maintain a relatively stable margin through further reducing deposit costs and additional liability management actions. Regions’ balance sheet is in a moderately asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably. For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:  

   •    2012 Overview discussion in MD&A  

   •    Net Interest Income and Margin section of MD&A  

   •    Interest Rate Risk section of MD&A  

GENERAL  

The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions’ financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on continuing operations for the years 2012, 2011 and 2010; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted.  

Regions’ profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non-interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest-bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions’ net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non-interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, trust and asset management activities, insurance activities, capital markets and other customer services, which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non-interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, FDIC insurance, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes.  

Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect financial  

47  

Table of Contents 

 institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions’ market areas.  

Regions’ business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations.  

Dispositions  

On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan and related affiliates to Raymond James. The sale closed on April 2, 2012. Regions Investment Management, Inc. (formerly known as Morgan Asset Management, Inc.) and Regions Trust were not included in the sale; they are included in the Wealth Management segment.  

Results of operations for the entities sold are presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented on the consolidated statements of operations. Other expenses related to the transaction are also included in discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” and Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” for further details.  

Business Segments  

Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of asset management, trust, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the three reportable business segments: Business Services, Consumer Services, and Wealth Management, with the remainder split between Discontinued Operations and Other. During the third quarter of 2012, Regions reorganized its internal management structure and, accordingly, its segment reporting structure. Historically, Regions’ primary business segment was Banking/Treasury, representing the Company’s banking network (including the Consumer & Commercial Banking function along with the Treasury function). Other segments included Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance. During the second quarter of 2012, Regions consummated the sale of Morgan Keegan (the primary component of Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust). Shortly thereafter, Regions announced organizational changes to better integrate and execute the Company’s strategic priorities across all lines of business and geographies. As a result, Regions revised its reportable segments.  

Business Services  

The Business Services segment represents the Company’s commercial banking functions including commercial and industrial, commercial real estate and investor real estate lending. This segment also includes equipment lease financing. Business Services customers include corporate, middle market, small business and commercial real estate developers and investors. Corresponding deposit products related to these types of customers are included in this segment. In 2012, the Business Services reportable segment contributed $631 million of net income.  

Consumer Services  

The Consumer Services segment represents the Company’s branch network, including consumer banking products and services related to residential first mortgages, home equity lines and loans, indirect loans, consumer credit cards and other consumer loans, as well as the corresponding deposit relationships. These services are also provided through alternative channels such as the internet and telephone banking. In 2012, the Consumer Services reportable segment contributed $420 million of net income.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Wealth Management  

The Wealth Management segment includes wealth management products and services such as trust activities, commercial insurance and credit related products, and investment management. Wealth Management customers include individuals and institutional clients who desire services that include investment advice, assistance in managing assets, and estate planning. Wealth Management activities contributed $69 million of net income in 2012.  

See Note 22 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions’ business segments.  

49  

Table of Contents 

Table 1—Financial Highlights  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   NM—Not meaningful  

 (1) See Table 2 for GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations.  

 (2) High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices.  

50  

Table of Contents 

2012 OVERVIEW  

Regions reported net income available to common shareholders of $991 million or $0.71 per diluted common share in 2012. Credit-related costs, primarily the loan loss provision, declined significantly in 2012 as a result of improvements in the credit environment. Average low-cost deposits grew 7 percent leading to a decline in both 2012’s total deposit and funding costs.  

Net interest income from continuing operations remained stable at $3.3 billion in 2012. The net interest margin from continuing operations (taxable- equivalent basis) was 3.11 percent in 2012, compared to 3.07 percent during 2011, primarily due to a reduction in average earning assets. Net interest income was driven primarily by a decrease of 23 basis points in the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 15 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long-term interest rates in particular remained low in 2012, pressuring yields on fixed-rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 3.08 percent in 2011 to 2.55 percent in 2012. The overall costs of deposits improved from 0.49 percent in 2011 to 0.30 percent in 2012, as short-term interest rates (for example, the Federal Funds rate) remained at historical lows. The product mix of deposits improved as well, as declines in higher cost certificates of deposits accompanied increases in low cost checking and savings products.  

If current economic conditions persist into 2013, growing net interest income and the resulting net interest margin will be challenging. However, management believes opportunities exist to stabilize the margin through further reducing deposit costs and additional liability management actions. Regions’ balance sheet is in a moderately asset sensitive position such that if economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, the net interest margin would likely respond favorably.  

Net charge-offs totaled $1.0 billion, or 1.37 percent of average loans in 2012 compared to $2.0 billion, or 2.44 percent of average loans in 2011. Net charge-offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2012 to the prior year. Non-performing assets decreased $1.1 billion to $1.9 billion at December 31, 2012.  

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in management’s judgment, is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2012, the provision for loan losses decreased to $213 million compared to $1.5 billion in 2011. The allowance for loan losses was $1.9 billion, or 2.59 percent of loans, at December 31, 2012 as compared to $2.7 billion, or 3.54 percent of loans, at December 31, 2011. Net charge-offs exceeded provision for loan losses for 2012 due to improving credit metrics, including lower non-accrual, criticized and classified loan balances, and delinquencies, as well as a decline in overall loan balances.  

Non-interest income from continuing operations decreased $43 million to $2.1 billion in 2012 compared to 2011. The year-over-year decrease was due primarily to lower securities gains and service charges, partially offset by increased mortgage income and investment fee income. See Table 5 “Non-Interest Income” for further details.  

Non-interest expense from continuing operations totaled $3.5 billion and $3.9 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Non-interest expense included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge in 2011. The 2012 period included an increase in salaries and employee benefits due to higher pension costs, annual merit increases and incentive increases, including mortgage-related incentives, lower occupancy expense and lower credit-related costs. See Table 6, “Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations” for further details.  

Total loans decreased by $3.6 billion, or 4.6 percent in 2012, driven primarily by a continued run-off of balances related to investor real estate. Decreases in residential first mortgage and home equity loans also contributed to the year-over-year decrease primarily resulting from consumers’ decisions to de-leverage. These  

51  

Table of Contents 

 decreases were partially offset by growth in the commercial and industrial category and record growth in indirect loans. Total deposits decreased $153 million in 2012 to $95.5 billion at December 31, 2012, and low-cost customer deposits increased $5.8 billion, or 7.6 percent, in 2012.  

Regions’ Tier 1 common (non-GAAP) ratio was 10.84 percent at December 31, 2012. The corresponding Basel III Tier 1 common ratio (non-GAAP), based on Regions’ current understanding of the guidelines, was approximately 8.87 percent, which exceeds the Basel III minimum of 7.0 percent (see Table 2, “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures to the corresponding GAAP or regulatory measure).  

Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” presents computations of earnings (loss) and certain other financial measures, which exclude certain significant items that are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). These non-GAAP financial measures include “fee income ratio”, “efficiency ratio”, “return on average assets from continuing operations”, “return on average tangible common stockholders’ equity”, end of period and average “tangible common stockholders’ equity”, “Tier 1 common equity”, and “Basel III Tier 1 common equity” and related ratios. Regions believes that the exclusion of these significant items in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions’ business because management does not consider these charges to be as relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures as follows:  

   •    Preparation of Regions’ operating budgets  

   •    Monthly financial performance reporting  

   •    Monthly close-out reporting of consolidated results (management only)  

   •    Presentations to investors of Company performance  

The efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non-interest expense divided by total revenue on a taxable equivalent basis. The fee income ratio (non-GAAP) is generally calculated as non-interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the efficiency ratio. Non-interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the fee income ratio. Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis and non-interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), which is the denominator for the fee income and efficiency ratios. Regions believes that the non-GAAP measures reflecting these adjustments provide a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions’ business. It is possible that the activities related to the adjustments may recur; however, management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management.  

Tangible common stockholders’ equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank’s capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserve’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review process, these regulators are supplementing their  

52  

Table of Contents 

 assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. While not prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions’ capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders’ equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions’ capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions’ capital adequacy on these same bases.  

Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the risk-based capital framework, a bank’s balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that, as adjusted, comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio. The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.  

Regions currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulations. When implemented by U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased-in, Basel III will change capital requirements and place greater emphasis on common equity. The Federal Reserve has announced a delay in the implementation date of the final rules. However, when implemented there will be a phase in period of up to 6 years. The U.S. bank regulatory agencies have not yet finalized regulations governing the implementation of Basel III. Accordingly, the calculations provided below are estimates, based on Regions’ current understanding of the framework, including the Company’s reading of the original requirements, as well as the U.S. Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPR”) released in June 2012, and informal feedback received through the regulatory process. Regions’ understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as the regulations are finalized. The NPR comment period ended in October 2012; changes to the calculation resulting from the comment process could result in materially different capital ratios from the amounts estimated. Because the Basel III implementation regulations are not formally defined by GAAP and have not yet been finalized and codified, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions’ disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions’ capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions’ capital adequacy on the same basis.  

Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes selected items does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., REIT investment early termination costs, merger-related charges, goodwill impairment and regulatory charge and related tax benefit are a reduction to earnings and stockholders’ equity).  

The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (loss) (GAAP) to income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of net income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP), 3) a  

53  

Table of Contents 

 reconciliation of income (loss) available to common shareholders (GAAP) to adjusted income (loss) available to common shareholders (non-GAAP), 4) a reconciliation of income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (GAAP) to adjusted income (loss) from continuing operations available to common shareholders (non-GAAP), 5) a reconciliation of non-interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), 6) a reconciliation of non-interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), 7) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), 8) a computation of the fee income ratio (non-GAAP), 9) a computation of the efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), 10) a computation of return on average assets from continuing operations (GAAP) and adjusted return on average assets from continuing operations (non-GAAP), 11) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders’ equity (non-GAAP) and calculations of related ratios and adjusted ratios (non-GAAP), 12) a reconciliation of stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, and 13) a reconciliation of stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to Basel III Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP) and calculation of the related ratio based on Regions’ current understanding of the Basel III requirements as proposed by the U.S. Notices of Proposed Rulemaking released in June 2012.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Table 2—GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

55  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

56  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) In the second quarter of 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge to account for a probable, reasonably estimable loss related to a pending settlement of regulatory matters. At that time, Regions assumed that the entire charge would be non-deductible for income tax purposes. $75 million of the regulatory charge relates to continuing operations. The regulatory settlement was finalized in the second quarter of 2011. At the time of the settlement, Regions had better information related to the income tax implications. $125 million of the approximately $200 million settlement charge was deductible for federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, during the second quarter of 2011, Regions adjusted income tax expense to account for the impact of the deduction. The adjustment reduced total income tax expense by approximately $44 million for the second quarter of 2011, of which approximately $17 million relates to continuing operations.  

 (2) Return on assets from continuing operations does not include average assets related to discontinued operations of $713 million, $3,254 million, $3,235 million, $3,291 million and $3,492 million for December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

 (3) In the fourth quarter of 2012, Regions entered into an agreement with a third party investor in Regions Asset Management Company, Inc., pursuant to which the investment was fully redeemed. This resulted in extinguishing a $203 million liability, including accrued, unpaid interest, as well as incurring early termination costs of approximately $42 million on a pre-tax basis ($38 million after tax).  

 (4) Taxable income from the two previous tax years and one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes.  

 (5) Under Basel III, regulatory capital must be reduced by purchased credit card relationship intangible assets. These assets are partially allowed in Basel I capital.  

 (6) Estimate based on June 2012 U.S. Notices of Proposed Rulemaking.  

 (7) Regions continues to develop systems and internal controls to precisely calculate risk-weighted assets as required by Basel III. The amount included above is a reasonable approximation, based on our understanding of the requirements.  

57  

Table of Contents 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses (“allowance”) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. These two components reflect management’s judgment of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio and unfunded credit commitments at the balance sheet date. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors is included in the “Allowance for Credit Losses” section within the discussion of “Credit Risk”, found in a later section of this report, Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.  

The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions’ estimate of the allowance and results of operations.  

Management’s estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individual’s credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. For non-accrual commercial and investor real estate loans equal to or greater than $2.5 million, the allowance for loan losses is based on specific evaluation considering the facts and circumstances specific to each borrower. For all other commercial and investor real estate loans, the allowance for loan losses is based on statistical models using a probability of default (“PD”) and a loss given default (“LGD”). Historical default information for similar loans is used as an input for the statistical model. A 5 percent increase in the PD for non-defaulted accounts and a 5 percent increase in the LGD for all accounts would result in an increase to estimated losses of approximately $85 million.  

For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer-related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 5 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $28 million.  

Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ from originally estimated amounts.  

The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. For additional information regarding the allowance for credit losses calculation, see Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 6 “Allowance For Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Fair Value Measurements  

A portion of the Company’s assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account assets and liabilities, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets.  

Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to “normal” market activity, management’s objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third-party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates.  

A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company-specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Company’s own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability.  

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes.  

Intangible Assets  

Regions’ intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (“goodwill”) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 and is allocated to each of Regions’ reportable segments (each a reporting unit), at which level goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of when Regions tests goodwill for impairment). As further discussed in Note 22 “Business Segment Information”, Regions reorganized its management reporting structure during the third quarter of 2012  

59  

Table of Contents 

 and, accordingly, its segment reporting structure and goodwill reporting units. In connection with the reorganization, management reallocated goodwill to the new reporting units using a relative fair value approach.  

A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount, including goodwill. To the extent that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The carrying value of equity for each reporting unit is determined from an allocation based upon risk weighted assets. Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value.  

The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is determined using two approaches and several key assumptions. Regions utilizes the Capital Asset Pricing Model (“CAPM”) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20-year risk-free rate, 5-year beta for a select peer set, and the market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company-specific risk premium, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set.  

The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment test of each reporting unit for the third and fourth quarters of 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment tests of the former Banking/Treasury reporting unit for the reporting periods indicated:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and a statement of operations for the last twelve months of activity for each reporting unit are compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs discussed below. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and/or budgets that range from 1 to 3 years. These internal forecasts are based on inputs developed in the Company’s capital planning processes.  

Regions uses the guideline public company method and the guideline transaction method as the two market approaches. The public company method applies a value multiplier derived from each reporting unit’s peer group to tangible book value or earnings (for Wealth Management) and an implied control premium to the respective reporting unit. The control premium is evaluated and compared to similar financial services transactions considering the absolute and relative potential revenue synergies and cost savings. The transaction method applies a value multiplier to a financial metric of the reporting unit based on comparable observed purchase transactions in the financial services industry for the reporting unit (where available).  

60  

Table of Contents 

Refer to the discussion of intangible assets in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of these approaches and Note 9 “Intangible Assets” for a discussion of the assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities.  

Throughout 2009 and 2010 in the former Banking/Treasury reporting unit, the credit quality of Regions’ loan portfolio declined, which contributed to increased losses as well as elevated non-performing loan levels. Accordingly, Regions performed tests of goodwill for impairment during each quarter of 2010 and during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009 in a manner consistent with the test conducted in the fourth quarter of 2008. While credit quality has improved, Regions continued to perform its goodwill impairment tests during the four quarters of 2011 and the first two quarters of 2012, in a manner consistent with the tests conducted in prior periods, primarily due to the Company’s market capitalization remaining below book value. As a result of the management reporting changes described above, Regions revised its reportable segments and, consequently, its reporting units from the three segments previously reported and reallocated goodwill to the new reporting units based on the relative fair values of the revised reporting units. The long-term fair value of equity was determined using both income and market approaches (referenced above and discussed in Note 9 “Intangible Assets”). The results of these calculations indicated that the estimated fair value of the Wealth Management reporting unit was greater than its carrying amount and the estimated fair values of the Business Services and Consumer Services reporting units were less than their respective carrying amounts. At October 1, 2012, the carrying amount and estimated fair value of the Business Services reporting unit were $8.7 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $2.6 billion. At October 1, 2012, the carrying amount and estimated fair value of the Consumer Services reporting unit were $5.2 billion and $5.2 billion respectively, while the carrying amount of goodwill for the reporting unit was $1.8 billion. Therefore, Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was performed for both the Business Services and Consumer Services reporting units. In Step Two, the fair values of each reporting unit’s assets, both tangible and intangible, and liabilities were determined using estimates of the amounts at which the assets (or liabilities) could be bought (or incurred) or sold (settled) in a taxable transaction between willing participants. For the Business Services and Consumer Services reporting units, the effects of the Step Two adjustments, which were primarily write-downs of assets to fair value, exceeded any reductions in the value of common equity determined in Step One; accordingly the calculation of implied goodwill exceeded its carrying amount. Therefore, the results were no impairment for the Business Services and Consumer Services reporting units, whose implied fair value of goodwill exceeded their carrying amounts by approximately 74 percent and 202 percent, respectively, as of October 1, 2012.  

Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Company’s market capitalization, disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets (especially loans) compared to equity, increases in book values of equity of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in fair value of equity, adverse business trends resulting from litigation and/or regulatory actions, higher loan losses, lengthened forecasts of higher unemployment relative to pre-crisis levels beyond 2013, future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements), future federal rules and regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, and/or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates significantly beyond 2014.  

The following tables present an analysis of independent changes in market factors and significant assumptions that could adversely impact the carrying balance of goodwill in the Business Services reporting unit. Due to the magnitude of the excess of the Consumer Services reporting unit’s implied fair value of goodwill over its carrying amount, no such table has been included for this reporting unit.  

61  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Represents the point at which the implied fair value of goodwill would approximate its carrying value.  

 (b) Business Services loan discount to fair value is 7.9%.  

The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change.  

Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles and credit card intangibles, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and/or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions’ operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the “Fair Value Measurements” section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2012 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 7 percent ($13 million) and 14 percent ($26 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2012 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 7 percent ($14 million) and 15 percent ($28 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 18 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the mortgage servicing rights by approximately $7 million or 3 basis points.  

62  

Table of Contents 

The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the “Mortgage Servicing Rights” discussion in the “Balance Sheet” analysis section found later in this report.  

Income Taxes  

Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect management’s estimate of income taxes to be paid or received.  

Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax-planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre-tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book-tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the “Income Taxes” section found later in this report.  

The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. The Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to any tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities.  

The Company’s estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

OPERATING RESULTS  

GENERAL  

For 2012, Regions reported net income available to common shareholders of $991 million, or $0.71 per diluted common share. In January 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. The results of the entities sold are presented as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Regions reported net income from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1,050 million, or $0.76 per diluted common share in 2012. Regions’ net loss from discontinued operations was $59 million, or ($0.04) per diluted common share.  

Regions’ 2012 results from continuing operations reflected a significant decline in its provision for loan losses resulting from continued improving credit metrics and lower non-interest expenses due to a $253 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge in 2011. Regions also experienced lower net interest income as a result of a decline in interest-earning asset levels combined with lower earning asset yields, as well as, slightly lower non-interest income.  

63  

Table of Contents 

NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN  

Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions’ principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions’ ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis decreased approximately $95 million, or 2.8 percent in 2012, from 2011 driven by a 4 percent decrease in the level of average earning assets, from $112.2 billion in 2011 to $107.8 billion in 2012. The net interest margin increased to 3.11 percent in 2012 from 3.07 percent in 2011, reflecting a favorable mix shift in deposits out of higher cost time deposits into low cost checking, savings and money market accounts.  

Comparing 2012 to 2011, interest-earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 15 basis points on average. However, interest-bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 23 basis points, more than offsetting the drop in interest-earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 8 basis points to 2.86 percent in 2012 compared to 2.78 percent in 2011.  

Continued low levels of long-term interest rates affected interest-earning asset yields through their influence on the behavior and pricing of both variable-rate and fixed-rate loans and securities. Monetary policy action pursued by the Federal Reserve, as well as a modest pace of economic recovery resulted in sustained low levels of both long and short term interest rates in 2012. The yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note, particularly in the second half of 2012, fluctuated mainly in the range of 1.40 percent to 1.80 percent, which is approximately 100 basis points lower than in 2011. The level of long-term rates has precipitated higher levels of prepayment, particularly in fixed-rate loans and securities, which can result in the replacement of these assets at lower rates of interest. This pressure impacts portfolios that have a significant concentration of fixed-rate loans. For example, the taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed-rate exposure, decreased in yield from 3.08 percent in 2011 to 2.55 percent in 2012.  

The negative influence of low, long-term interest rates on the net interest margin, however, was offset by improvements in liability costs. The Federal Reserve’s Rate of Interest on Excess Reserves and the prime rate, which are influential drivers of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, remained low at approximately 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively, throughout 2012, which was essentially unchanged from the previous year-end level. The Company’s loan pricing is also influenced by the 30-day London Interbank Offering Rate (“LIBOR”), which, on average was 24 basis points 2012. With short-term interest rates remaining low, deposit costs improved considerably from 0.49 percent in 2011 to 0.30 percent in 2012. There was substantial improvement in costs in every deposit category, including average money market accounts which declined from 0.29 percent to 0.18 percent. The improvement in overall deposit costs was also attributable to a less costly mix of deposits. For example, average time deposits declined from $21.6 billion, or 22.6 percent of total average deposits, in 2011 to $16.5 billion, or 17.3 percent of total average deposits, in 2012. Meanwhile, average non-interest bearing customer deposits increased from $27.7 billion in 2011 to $29.4 billion in 2012. Net interest margin was also supported by a favorable shift of funding to customer deposits from more costly long-term borrowings. Average long-term borrowings declined to $6.7 billion in 2012 as compared to $11.2 billion in 2011.  

64  

Table of Contents 

Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations” presents a detail of net interest income (on a taxable-equivalent basis), the net interest margin, and the net interest spread.  

Table 3—Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis from Continuing Operations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Loans, net of unearned income include non-accrual loans for all periods presented.  

 (2) Interest income includes loan fees of $65 million, $50 million and $37 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

 (3) The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.  

 (4) Total deposit costs may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on deposits by the sum of interest-bearing deposits and non-interest bearing deposits. The rates for total deposit costs equal 0.30%, 0.49% and 0.78% for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

 (5) Total funding costs from continuing operations may be calculated by dividing total interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities by the sum of interest-bearing liabilities and non-interest bearing deposits. The rates for total funding costs from continuing operations equal 0.58%, 0.77% and 1.09% for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.  

 (6) The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). If these assets, liabilities, and net interest income were included in the calculation, the consolidated net interest income and margin on a taxable equivalent basis would be $3,356 million and 3.10%, $3,476 million and 3.05% and $3,464 million and 2.90% for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.  

 (7) Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period classification.  

65  

Table of Contents 

Table 4—Volume and Yield/Rate Variances from Continuing Operations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Notes:  

 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.  

 2. The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.  

 3. The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).  

 4. Prior period amounts for money market accounts-domestic and money market accounts-foreign have been reclassified to conform to the current period classification.  

The mix of interest-earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions’ primary types of interest-earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest-earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreements to resell. The spread on loans remained depressed in 2012 due to the low interest rate environment and an elevated level of loans on non-accrual status. Average  

66  

Table of Contents 

 interest-earning assets at December 31, 2012 totaled $107.8 billion, a decrease of $4.4 billion as compared to the prior year. While average earning assets declined during 2012, the mix changed somewhat, reflecting higher securities balances and a decline in average loans due to muted loan demand, consumer deleveraging and run-off of investor real estate.  

Also affecting the interest rate spread and the net interest margin were continued elevated balances of interest-bearing deposits in other banks (included in “other interest-earning assets” in Table 3), primarily the Federal Reserve Bank, as a result of the Company’s liquidity management process. These funds generate a significantly lower spread than loans or securities. The levels of cash reserves negatively impacted the net interest margin by 9 basis points in 2012 and 13 basis points in 2011. In addition, overall levels of non-performing assets negatively impacted the net interest margin by 8 basis points in 2012 compared to 14 basis points in 2011.  

Average loans as a percentage of average interest-earning assets were 71 percent in 2012 and 72 percent in 2011. The categories, which consist of interest-earning assets, are shown in Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations”. The proportion of average interest-earning assets to average total assets which was 88 percent and 89 percent in 2012 and in 2011, respectively, measures the effectiveness of management’s efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest-earning vehicles. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2012 was in interest-earning assets. Funding for Regions’ interest-earning assets comes from interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest-earning assets funded by interest-bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest-earning assets funded by average interest-bearing liabilities was 69 percent in 2012 and 72 percent in 2011, reflecting growth in non-interest bearing deposits.  

Table 4 “Volume and Yield/Rate Variances from Continuing Operations” provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income.  

PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES  

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in management’s judgment, is appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2012, the provision for loan losses was $213 million and net charge-offs were $1.0 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $1.5 billion and net charge-offs of $2.0 billion in 2011. Net charge-offs exceeded the provision for loan losses during 2012 primarily resulting from the continued improving credit metrics, including lower levels of non-accrual loans and criticized and classified loans, as well as an overall reduction in loan balances, problem loan resolutions and a continuing mix shift in loans out of higher risk investor real estate and into less risky commercial and industrial loans.  

For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the “Risk Management” section found later in this report. See also Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.  

NON-INTEREST INCOME  

Non-interest income from continuing operations represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest-earning assets. Table 5 “Non-Interest Income from Continuing Operations” provides a detail of the components of non-interest income from continuing operations. Non-interest income decreased $43 million to $2.1 billion in 2012 compared to 2011. The decrease is primarily due to lower service charges on deposit accounts and securities gains, partially offset by an increase in mortgage income.  

67  

Table of Contents 

Table 5—Non-Interest Income from Continuing Operations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service Charges on Deposit Accounts  

Income from service charges on deposit accounts decreased 16 percent in 2012 and totaled $985 million and $1.2 billion in 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decrease was primarily driven by policy changes negatively impacting non-sufficient fund fees related to Regulation E, as well as a decline in interchange income as a result of debit interchange price controls implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011. During 2012, service charges on deposit accounts were also negatively impacted by a total of approximately $35 million in customer refunds resulting from a change in the Company’s non-sufficient funds policy.  

Interchange income, which is included in service charges on deposit accounts, was impacted by the Federal Reserve’s rulemaking required by section 1075 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Federal Reserve Board of Governors announced its final rule on debit card interchange fees mandated by the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act effective October 1, 2011, which contributed to the decline in service charges in 2012.  

Investment Fee and Trust Department Income  

Total investment fee income, which primarily relates to capital markets activities such as loan syndications, foreign exchange and derivatives, increased 72 percent to $110 million in 2012 from $64 million in 2011, due primarily to improved market valuations in the customer derivative portfolio. Trust department income decreased 2 percent to $195 million in 2012, driven by declines in assets under management to approximately $72.7 billion at year-end 2012 compared to approximately $74.6 billion at year-end 2011.  

Mortgage Income  

Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long-term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income increased $143 million or 65 percent to $363 million in 2012. The increase reflects wider margins as a result of favorable market conditions, as well as an increase in originations driven by customers taking advantage of the opportunity to refinance under the extended Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP II. Mortgage originations totaled $8.0 billion in 2012 as compared to $6.3 billion in 2011. In 2012, refinancing encompassed 63 percent of mortgage originations versus 54 percent in 2011.  

At December 31, 2012, $26.2 billion of Regions’ servicing portfolio was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2011, $26.7 billion of the servicing portfolio was serviced for third parties.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Securities Gains, Net  

Regions reported net gains of $48 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2012, as compared to net gains of $112 million in 2011. Lower security gains during 2012 were due to lower volumes of securities sales resulting from the Company’s asset/liability management process. Refer to the “Securities” section in the “Balance Sheet Analysis” for further discussion.  

Insurance Commissions and Fees  

Regions provides property and casualty, life and health, mortgage, title and other specialty insurance and credit related products to businesses and individuals. Insurance commissions and fees increased 3 percent to $109 million in 2012, compared to $106 million in 2011. The increase is primarily due to growth in the agency business as well as stabilizing insurance rates and exposures.  

Leveraged Lease Termination Gains  

Regions terminated certain leveraged leases in 2012 and 2011 resulting in gains of $14 million and $8 million, respectively. These termination gains were largely offset by increases in income tax expense.  

Commercial Credit Fee Income  

Commercial credit fee income decreased 15 percent to $68 million in 2012, compared to $80 million in 2011. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in standby letters of credit. Regions’ ability to originate standby letters of credit has been impacted by its credit rating in the prior years, as many beneficiaries require investment grade ratings for the issuing bank. During 2012, Moody’s and S&P upgraded credit ratings for Regions Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries.  

Bank-Owned Life Insurance  

Bank-owned life insurance income decreased 2 percent to $81 million in 2012, compared to $83 million in 2011. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in death benefits and crediting rates.  

Credit Card / Bank Card Income  

Credit card / bank card income increased $20 million in 2012 as compared to 2011. Credit card income is derived from activity related to the Regions-branded credit card portfolio purchased from FIA Card Services in the second quarter of 2011 and subsequent originations. Bank card income relates to commercial purchasing cards. The increase during 2012 is due to an entire year’s worth of impact from the 2011 credit card portfolio purchase.  

NON-INTEREST EXPENSE  

The following section contains a discussion of non-interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non-interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non-interest expense in 2012 was down $336 million from 2011. Non-interest expense in 2011 included $253 million in goodwill impairment plus $75 million in branch consolidation and property and equipment charges. The decline in non-interest expense in 2012 included $61 million in net gains related to the sale of loans held for sale in excess of their carrying values, plus a reduction in other real estate owned expenses of $110 million partially offset by a $159 million increase in salaries and employee benefits. Table 6 “Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations” presents total non-interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.  

69  

Table of Contents 

Table 6—Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Salaries and Employee Benefits  

Total salaries and employee benefits increased $159 million, or 10 percent, in 2012. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to higher pension costs, annual merit increases, restricted stock awards and incentive increases, including mortgage-related incentives, partially offset by a decline in headcount from 23,707 at December 31, 2011 to 23,427 at December 31, 2012.  

Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. The pension plan has been closed to new enrollments since 2006. Regions’ 401(k) plan includes a Company match of eligible employee contributions. See Note 17 “Employee Benefit Plans” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions’ lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability and risk management. Regions’ long-term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 16 “Share-Based Payments” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Net Occupancy Expense  

Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Net occupancy expense decreased $6 million, or 2 percent, in 2012. Rent expense decreased as a result of branch consolidations that occurred in early 2010 and late 2011, as well as a result of other lease downsizing efforts. At December 31, 2012, Regions had 1,711 branches compared to 1,726 at December 31, 2011.  

Furniture and Equipment Expense  

Furniture and equipment expense decreased by 5 percent to $261 million in 2012 primarily driven by branch consolidations.  

70  

Table of Contents 

Professional and Legal Expenses  

Professional and legal expenses are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These expenses decreased $61 million or 35 percent to $114 million in 2012, reflecting a decrease in the level of legal expenses and recognition of recoveries from previously established legal accruals. Refer to Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.  

Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles  

The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 13 percent to $83 million in 2012 compared to $95 million in 2011. Regions reviews core deposit intangibles for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible assets. Regions’ annual 2012 impairment test resulted in no impairment. The test reflected an increase in the estimated life of Regions’ core deposit intangibles. Amortization expense will be revised to reflect the increased estimated life beginning in 2013. See Note 9 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.  

Other Real Estate Owned Expense  

Other real estate owned (“OREO”) expense includes the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties and other property held for sale to estimated fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO, net gains and losses on sales of properties, and other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. Through Regions’ efforts to sell foreclosed properties, those balances decreased $147 million to $149 million in 2012. This reduction in foreclosed properties balances, along with lower valuation charges as a result of stabilizing real estate values, was the primary driver of the $110 million decline in OREO expense in 2012. See the “Foreclosed Properties” section later in the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section.  

Credit/Checkcard Expenses  

Credit/checkcard expenses increased $14 million for 2012 when compared to 2011. The year-over-year increase is due to the effect of an entire year’s worth of impact from the credit card portfolio purchase at the end of the second quarter of 2011.  

Branch Consolidation and Property and Equipment Charges  

Non-interest expense in 2011 included $75 million of branch consolidation charges related to lower of cost or market adjustments on owned branch property, terminated ground leases and impairment of other equipment. The charges were driven primarily by Regions’ decision to consolidate approximately 40 branches.  

(Gain)/Loss on Loans Held for Sale, Net  

The Company recorded a $61 million reduction in non-interest expense for 2012 related to gains on loans held for sale. The Company recorded losses on loans held for sale of $1 million for 2011. The improvement during 2012 relates to sales and paydowns of individual loans at amounts in excess of carrying value.  

Deposit Administrative Fees  

Deposit administrative fees decreased in 2012 by $55 million to $162 million. Deposit administrative fees were impacted by a new assessment rule in 2011, which revised the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The new rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk-based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the new rule was effective beginning in the second quarter of 2011. The bank regulatory  

71  

Table of Contents 

 agencies’ ratings, comprised of Regions Bank’s capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with certain financial ratios are used in determining deposit administrative fees. The decrease in 2012 was related to lower asset balances, including a reduction in higher risk loans and improved performance metrics, including asset quality metrics, all of which impact the fee calculation. For further information, see discussion of Deposit Insurance in the Supervision and Regulation section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K.  

Marketing  

Marketing increased $25 million in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to costs incurred for customer communications in conjunction with Regions’ third quarter 2012 assumption of the servicing of the credit card portfolio which had been purchased in the second quarter of 2011.  

Outside Services  

Outside services increased in 2012 by $20 million to $82 million. The increase was due primarily to expenses incurred related to assuming the servicing of the credit card portfolio during the third quarter of 2012 that was purchased at the end of the second quarter of 2011, as well as fees related to the routine purchases of indirect loans from a third party.  

Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt  

During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company redeemed all issued and outstanding 8.875% Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust III (“trust preferred securities”). The aggregate principal amount of the trust preferred securities was approximately $345 million. The Company recognized an $11 million loss on the early redemption of these securities.  

REIT Investment Early Termination Costs  

On November 30, 2012, Regions entered into an agreement with a third party investor in Regions Asset Management Company, Inc., a real estate investment trust, pursuant to which the investment was fully redeemed. As a result, Regions incurred early termination costs of approximately $42 million.  

Goodwill Impairment  

As a result of the process of selling Morgan Keegan, Regions’ 2011 results include a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 million (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the investment banking/brokerage/trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations. The goodwill impairment charge is a non-cash item which does not have an adverse impact on regulatory capital. Refer to Note 9 “Intangible Assets” in the footnotes to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

Other Miscellaneous Expenses  

Other miscellaneous expenses increased $43 million in 2012 compared to 2011. The primary drivers of the increase were mortgage repurchase expenses (see Note 7 “Servicing of Financial Assets”), amortization of intangible assets related to the credit card portfolio purchase and bank operational losses. This item also includes expenses for communications, postage, supplies, certain credit-related costs and business development services.  

INCOME TAXES  

The Company’s income tax expense from continuing operations for 2012 was $482 million compared to a tax benefit of $28 million in 2011, resulting in an effective tax rate of 29.0 percent and (17.4) percent, respectively. The increase in income tax expense was primarily a result of positive consolidated pre-tax earnings.  

72  

Table of Contents 

At December 31, 2012, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $763 million compared to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011. The change is principally due to a decrease in the allowance for loan losses and utilization of tax credit carryforwards. Of the balance at December 31, 2012, $462 million was generated from differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities, of which a significant portion relates to the allowance for loan losses. These net deferred tax assets have not yet reduced taxable income and therefore do not have a set expiration date. The remaining $301 million net deferred tax asset balance relates to tax carryforwards that have defined expiration dates which are typically 15 or 20 years from the date of creation. Of the $301 million, $68 million of this deferred tax asset is related to tax carryforwards that have expiration dates prior to the tax year 2025.  

The Company continually assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets based on an evaluative process that considers all available positive and negative evidence. The Company has established a valuation allowance in the amount of $70 million at December 31, 2012 and $32 million at December 31, 2011 because the Company believes that a portion of the state operating loss carryforwards and state tax credit carryforwards will not be utilized. As part of this evaluative process, management considers the following sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax-planning strategies. In making a conclusion, management has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of evidence impacting management’s judgment regarding the realization of the Company’s deferred tax assets are summarized below.  

   •    History of earnings—As of December 31, 2012, the Company has reestablished a positive earnings trend and is not in a three-year cumulative loss position. Therefore, the Company no longer has this negative evidence to consider in the valuation of its deferred tax assets. The Company did not generate any federal net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards until 2009, and in 2011 the Company utilized all federal net operating losses. In 2012, the Company utilized a significant portion of its federal tax credit carryforwards. There is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused.  

   •    Reversals of taxable temporary differences—The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in a prior business combination, can absorb up to approximately $812 million of deferred tax assets.  

   •    Creation of future taxable income—The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences. The taxable income forecasting process utilizes the forecasted pre-tax earnings and adjusts for book-tax differences that will be exempt from taxation, primarily tax-exempt interest income and bank-owned life insurance, as well as temporary book-tax differences including the allowance for loan losses. The projections relied upon for this process are consistent with those used in the Company’s financial forecasting process.  

   •    Ability to implement tax-planning strategies—The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets, such as the sale of assets. As an example, at December 31, 2012, the Company’s portfolio of securities available for sale had $729 million of gross unrealized pre-tax gains which could accelerate the recognition of the associated taxable temporary differences, which management would consider being a tax planning strategy to maximize the realization of the deferred tax assets that may expire unutilized.  

The Company completed the sale of Morgan Keegan and related affiliates to Raymond James on April 2, 2012. The Company has reflected the transaction as if Raymond James purchased the assets of the entities for tax purposes and in January 2013, income tax elections were finalized that are consistent with this treatment.  

The Company’s effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank-owned life insurance and tax-exempt income, which are expected to be consistent in the near term. The effective  

73  

Table of Contents 

 tax rate is also affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period.  

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 19 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes.  

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS  

At December 31, 2012, Regions reported total assets of $121.3 billion compared to $127.1 billion at the end of 2011, a decrease of approximately $5.7 billion or 4 percent. The decrease in total assets from year-end 2011 resulted mainly from a decrease in loans, as well as a decrease in other assets. Loans, net of unearned income, declined approximately $3.6 billion, primarily related to the investor real estate portfolio segment. Other assets also declined between years due to decreases in derivative assets and deferred income tax assets, as well as settlements of securities sales. Also, a decrease in interest-bearing deposits in other banks was largely offset by an increase in securities available for sale. The decrease in total assets was also driven by a reduction in trading account assets, which resulted from the closing of the sale of Morgan Keegan (see Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” to the consolidated financial statements).  

Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2012, these assets totaled $5.5 billion as compared to $7.2 billion at December 31, 2011. The year-over-year decrease was driven by a decrease in interest-bearing deposits in other banks. These funds were utilized for repurchase of the Series A preferred shares issued to the U.S. Treasury.  

Trading Account Assets  

Trading account assets decreased $1.2 billion to $116 million at December 31, 2012. The trading account assets were primarily held at Morgan Keegan. As discussed above, early in 2012, Regions completed the sale of Morgan Keegan. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. Table 7 “Trading Account Assets” illustrates the total carrying values of trading account assets by category.  

Table 7—Trading Account Assets  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

74  

Table of Contents 

Securities  

Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high-quality mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. Securities represented 22 percent of total assets at December 31, 2012 compared to 19 percent at December 31, 2011. In 2012, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, increased $2.8 billion, or 11 percent.  

The “Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk” section, found later in this report, further explains Regions’ interest rate risk management practices. The weighted-average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 2.57 percent in 2012 and 2.91 percent in 2011. Table 8 “Securities” illustrates the carrying values of total securities by category.  

Table 8—Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Securities totaled $27.3 billion at December 31, 2012, an increase of $2.8 billion from year-end 2011 levels. During 2012, Regions purchased approximately $600 million in available for sale federal agency securities, $8.3 billion in available for sale mortgage-backed securities, and $2.4 billion in available for sale high quality investment grade corporate bonds. These purchases were partially offset by sales of approximately $1.4 billion in available for sale mortgage-backed securities, sales of approximately $194 million in available for sale high quality investment grade corporate bonds, paydowns and maturities. The net purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities are an offset to the Company’s strategy to sell the majority of agency eligible residential first mortgages at origination, and the corporate bonds increase diversification in the portfolio with an attractive risk and return profile.  

Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2012, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $701 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year-end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized gain represents $729 million in gross unrealized gains and $28 million in gross unrealized losses. At December 31, 2011, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $514 million, comprised of $532 million in gross unrealized gains and $18 million in gross unrealized losses.  

The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other-than-temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions’ intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security  

75  

Table of Contents 

 before its market value recovers. During 2012 and 2011, Regions recognized minimal levels of securities impairments in earnings. See Note 4 “Securities” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

Maturity Analysis—The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2012 was estimated to be 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 2.7 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 2.1 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2011. Table 9 “Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities” provides additional details.  

Table 9—Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Notes:  

 1. The weighted-average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted-average yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a taxable-equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35%. Taxable-equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to zero as of December 31, 2012. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non-deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax-exempt obligations.  

 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above.  

Portfolio Quality—Regions’ investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 90 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2012. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented approximately 10 percent of total securities at year-end 2012.  

Loans Held for Sale  

At December 31, 2012, loans held for sale totaled $1.4 billion, consisting primarily of $1.3 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $89 million of non-performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2011, loans held for sale totaled $1.2 billion, consisting primarily of $844 million of residential real estate mortgage loans and $328 million of non-performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties.  

76  

Table of Contents 

Loans  

GENERAL  

Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 71 percent of average interest-earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to 72 percent for the year ended December 31, 2011. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial loans (including commercial and industrial, and owner occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans).  

Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk-adjusted return on capital. Strategic decisions to reduce the concentration in investor real estate, continued run-off of residential mortgage loans, and lower demand for home equity products were the primary contributors to the decrease. The decrease was partially offset by increases in commercial and industrial loans and indirect automobile lending.  

Table 10 illustrates a year-over-year comparison of loans by portfolio segment and class and Table 11 provides information on selected loan maturities.  

Table 10—Loan Portfolio  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

77  

Table of Contents 

Table 11—Selected Loan Maturities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Excludes $130 million of small business credit card accounts.  

 (2) Table 11 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans.  

The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes in Table 10 and explain variations in balances from the 2011 year-end. See Note 5 “Loans” and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion.  

Commercial—The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial and industrial loans have increased since 2011 due to Regions’ integrated approach to specialized lending. Commercial also includes owner-occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long-term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. These loans declined from year-end 2011 as a result of customer deleveraging. Owner-occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2012, total commercial loan balances increased $1,046 million, or 3% percent, driven by growth experienced in specialized industry groups.  

Investor Real Estate—Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions’ investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single-family and condominium loans) within Regions’ markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income-producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment decreased $3.0 billion from 2011 balances primarily due to continued payoffs, paydowns, and transfers to held for sale.  

Residential First Mortgage—Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to  

78  

Table of Contents 

 borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $0.8 billion decline to $13.0 billion in 2012, primarily due to consumer deleveraging. However, mortgage origination volume increased to $8.0 billion in 2012 as compared to $6.3 billion in 2011 reflecting customers taking advantage of the opportunity to refinance under the extended Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP II. A significant portion of mortgage originations were sold in the secondary market. At the end of 2012, Regions began the process of retaining 15 year fixed-rate mortgage production on the balance sheet which should mitigate additional balance reductions going forward. Refer to Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion.  

Home Equity—Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower’s residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. During 2012, home equity balances decreased $1.2 billion to $11.8 billion, driven by consumer deleveraging and refinancing. Net charge-offs within the home equity portfolio remain elevated, but decreased in 2012 as compared to 2011. Most of the improvement in losses came from Florida second liens because property values in Florida markets have either stabilized or started to increase. More information related to these developments is included in the “Home Equity” discussion below.  

Indirect— Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third-party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class increased $488 million, or 26 percent in 2012, reflecting growth from the late 2010 re-entry into the indirect auto lending business. Regions currently has over 1,900 dealers in its network.  

Consumer Credit Card—During the second quarter of 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately $1.0 billion of existing Regions-branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. The products are primarily open-ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. In the third quarter of 2012, Regions assumed the servicing of these loans from FIA Card Services.  

Other Consumer—Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2012, relatively unchanged from the prior year.  

CREDIT QUALITY  

Certain of Regions’ loans have been particularly vulnerable to weak economic conditions over the past several years, mainly investor real estate loans and home equity products (particularly Florida second lien). These loan types have a higher risk of non-collection than other loans. The following sections provide further detail on these portfolios.  

79  

Table of Contents 

INVESTOR REAL ESTATE  

The following table presents the portions of the investor real estate portfolio segment as of December 31, 2012:  

Table 12—Investor Real Estate Analysis  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table presents the geographic distribution of the investor real estate portfolio segment as of December 31, 2012:  

Table 13—Investor Real Estate (IRE) By Geography  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Core State represents the state in which the underlying collateral is located.  

HOME EQUITY  

The home equity portfolio totaled $11.8 billion at December 31, 2012 as compared to $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment rates remain high. Losses in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses.  

80  

Table of Contents 

The following tables provide details related to the home equity portfolio as follows:  

Table 14—Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Net charge-off percentages are calculated on an annualized basis as a percent of average balances.  

Net charge-offs were 1.90 percent of home equity loans for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to 2.41 percent for the year ended December 31, 2011. Losses in Florida-based credits remained at elevated levels, but the related net charge-off percentage did decrease to 3.25 percent for the year ended December 31, 2012 from 4.44 percent for the year ended December 31, 2011. Home equity losses have decreased during 2012 due to improvement in unemployment rates which, although high, are lower than prior levels. Tighter underwriting standards in place since 2008 and stabilizing home values in Florida also are contributing to this improvement.  

Of the $11.8 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2012, approximately $10.4 billion were home equity lines of credit and $1.4 billion were closed-end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Beginning in May 2009, new home equity lines of credit have a 10 year draw period and a 10 year repayment period. Previously, the home equity lines of credit had a 20 year term with a balloon payment upon maturity or a 5 year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term “balloon payment” means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest-only lines of credit. As of December 31, 2012, none of Regions’ home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. The majority of home equity lines of credit will either mature with a balloon payment or convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020.  

Of the $10.4 billion of home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2012, approximately 90 percent require monthly interest-only payments while the remaining approximately 10 percent require a payment equal to 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance, which would include some principal repayment. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 30 percent of borrowers were only paying the minimum amount due on the home equity line. In addition, approximately 55 percent of the home equity lines of credit balances have the option to amortize either all or a portion of their balance. As of December 31, 2012, approximately $400 million of the home equity lines of credit balances have elected this option.  

81  

Table of Contents 

Regions’ home equity loans have higher default and delinquency rates than home equity lines of credit, which is expected at origination of the loans, due to more stringent underwriting guidelines for a line of credit versus a loan reflecting the nature of the credit being extended. Therefore, home equity loans secured with a second lien are expected to and do have higher delinquency and loss rates than home equity lines of credit with a second lien. In the current environment, second liens in areas experiencing declines in home prices since origination, such as Florida, perform similar to an unsecured portfolio.  

Regions is unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When Regions’ second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, Regions does not continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. Short sale offers and settlement agreements are often received by the home equity junior lien holders well before the loan balance reaches the delinquency threshold for charge-off consideration, potentially resulting in a full balance payoff/charge-off. Regions is presently monitoring the status of all first lien position loans that the Company owns or services and has a second lien, and is taking appropriate action when delinquent. During 2012, Regions evaluated a means to monitor non-Regions-serviced first liens using a third-party service provider and found that the delinquency rates were not material.  

OTHER CONSUMER CREDIT QUALITY DATA  

The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both home equity and residential first mortgage lending products (“current LTV”). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”). The FHFA data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSAs”). Regions uses the FHFA valuation trends from the MSAs in the Company’s footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area.  

The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential mortgage and home equity classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for the remaining loans in the portfolio is not available, primarily because some of the loans are serviced by others. Data may also not be available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. For purposes of the table below, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral, the entire balance is included in the “Above 100%” category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. The balances in the “Above 100%” category as a percentage of the portfolio balances have remained constant at 13% for residential first mortgage and 17% for home equity portfolios as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

82  

Table of Contents 

Table 15—Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Regions qualitatively considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of Regions’ formal underwriting process. Refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for all revolving accounts and home equity lines of credit and semi-annually for all other consumer loans. Regions considers FICO scores less than 620 to be indicative of higher credit risk and obtains additional collateral in most of these instances. The following table presents estimated current FICO score data for components of classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current FICO data is not available for the remaining loans in the portfolio for various reasons; for example, if customers do not use sufficient credit, an updated score may not be available. Residential first mortgage and home equity balances with FICO scores below 620 improved slightly from approximately 8.7 percent at December 31, 2011, to approximately 8.1 percent at December 31, 2012.  

Table 16—Estimated Current FICO Score Ranges  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

83  

Table of Contents 

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses represents management’s estimate of credit losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of period-end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Management’s assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Additional discussion of the methodology used to calculate the allowance for credit losses is included in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements, as well as related discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.  

The allowance for loan losses totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2012 and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2011. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of net loans was 2.59 percent at December 31, 2012 and 3.54 percent on December 31, 2011. The reserve for unfunded credit commitments was $83 million at December 31, 2012 compared to $78 million at December 31, 2011. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans were 1.37 percent and 2.44 percent in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Net charge-offs were lower across most categories, period over period, particularly in the case of commercial investor real estate mortgage as a result of the recent ongoing portfolio derisking and fundamental improvement in credit performance. Net charge-offs increased period over period for the consumer credit card portfolio, which was purchased during the second quarter of 2011. In addition to lower levels of charge-offs, credit quality metrics have improved during 2012 compared to 2011, including lower levels of non-accrual, criticized and classified loans, and lower inflows of non-accrual loans. The provision for loan losses totaled $213 million for the year ended 2012 compared to $1.5 billion for the year ended 2011. Net charge-offs exceeded the provision for loan losses for 2012, primarily resulting from the continued improving credit metrics referred to above, as well as, an overall reduction in loan balances, problem loan resolutions and a continuing mix shift in loans out of higher risk investor real estate and into less risky commercial and industrial loans.  

Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Management’s determination of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates.  

Given continued economic pressures and the anticipated slow economic recovery, management expects that net loan charge-offs in 2013 will continue to improve compared to 2012. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment will impact the future levels of net charge-offs and provision and may result in volatility from quarter to quarter during 2013. Additionally, changes in circumstances related to individually large credits or certain portfolios may result in volatility. Details regarding the allowance and net charge-offs, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s totals, are included in Table 17 “Allowance for Credit Losses.”  

84  

Table of Contents 

Activity in the allowance for credit losses is summarized as follows:  

Table 17—Allowance for Credit Losses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

85  

Table of Contents 

Allocation of the allowance for loan losses by portfolio segment and class is summarized as follows:  

Table 18—Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

86  

Table of Contents 

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs)  

Residential first mortgage, home equity and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the Customer Assistance Program (“CAP”). Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. As a result of clarified accounting literature that was effective in the third quarter of 2011, renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are refutably considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, because the existing terms are considered to be below market. Refer to Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements for detailed information.  

The following table summarizes TDRs:  

Table 19—Troubled Debt Restructurings  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Note: All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature.  

87  

Table of Contents 

Non-Performing Assets  

Non-performing assets consist of loans on non-accrual status and foreclosed properties and are summarized as follows:  

Table 20—Non-Performing Assets  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due  

88  

Table of Contents 

Non-performing assets totaled $1.9 billion at December 31, 2012, compared to $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011. Foreclosed properties, a subset of non-performing assets, totaled $149 million and $296 million at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. The decrease in non-performing assets and foreclosed properties during 2012 reflects the Company’s efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures.  

Based on current expectations for the economy, non-performing assets are expected to improve in 2013 compared to 2012. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment, as well as the level of disposition activity, will impact the future level of non-performing assets. Circumstances related to individually large credits may result in volatility throughout 2013.  

Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing were $450 million at December 31, 2012, a slight increase from $447 million at December 31, 2011.  

At December 31, 2012, Regions had approximately $250-$350 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non-accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. This is a likely estimate of the amount of commercial and investor real estate loans that may migrate to non-accrual status in the next quarter.  

In order to arrive at the estimate of potential problem loans, personnel from geographic regions forecast certain larger dollar loans that may potentially be downgraded to non-accrual at a future time, depending on the occurrence of future events. These personnel consider a variety of factors, including the borrower’s capacity and willingness to meet the contractual repayment terms, make principal curtailments or provide additional collateral when necessary, and provide current and complete financial information including global cash flows, contingent liabilities and sources of liquidity. A probability weighting is assigned to the listing of loans due to the inherent level of uncertainty related to potential actions that a borrower or guarantor may take to prevent the loan from reaching problem status. Regions assigns the probability weighting based on an assessment of the likelihood that the necessary actions required to prevent problem loan status will occur. Additionally, for other loans (for example, smaller dollar loans), a factor based on trends and experience is applied to determine the estimate of potential future downgrades. Because of the inherent uncertainty in forecasting future events, the estimate of potential problem loans ultimately represents the estimated aggregate dollar amounts of loans as opposed to an individual listing of loans.  

The majority of the loans on which the potential problem loan estimate is based are classified as substandard accrual. Detailed disclosures for substandard accrual loans (as well as other credit quality metrics) are included in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.  

89  

Table of Contents 

The following table provides an analysis of non-accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment for the year ended December 31, 2012:  

Table 21—Analysis of Non-Accrual Loans  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale is included as a single net number within the additions line, due to the relative immateriality of consumer non-accrual loans.  

 (2) Includes charge-offs on loans on non-accrual status and charge-offs taken upon sale and transfer of non-accrual loans to held for sale.  

 (3) Transfers to held for sale are shown net of charge-offs of $163 million recorded upon transfer.  

The following table provides an analysis of non-performing loans held for sale for the years ended 2012 and 2011:  

Table 22—Non-Performing Loans Held For Sale  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) During the third quarter of 2011, there were $12 million in transfers from accruing loans held for sale to non-performing loans held for sale.  

For additional discussion, see Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.  

90  

Table of Contents 

Premises and Equipment  

Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2012 decreased $96 million to $2.3 billion compared to year-end 2011. This decrease primarily resulted from the sale of Morgan Keegan and depreciation expense on existing assets.  

Goodwill  

Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at both December 31, 2012 and 2011 and was reallocated to the new reporting units during 2012. Refer to the “Critical Accounting Policies” section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Company’s methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 9 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test and further details on the reallocation. Additionally, Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements includes information related to the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such pricing, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2012 totaled $191 million compared to $182 million at December 31, 2011. An analysis of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 7 “Servicing of Financial Assets” to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors and are presented at fair value. Data and assumptions used in the fair value calculation, as well as certain sensitivity estimates, are also presented in Note 7.  

Other Identifiable Intangible Assets  

Other identifiable intangible assets totaled $345 million at December 31, 2012 compared to $449 million at December 31, 2011. The year-over-year decrease was due to amortization of core deposit intangibles and the purchased credit card intangibles. See Note 9 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Foreclosed Properties  

Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in foreclosure are reported at the lower of the investment in the loan or fair value of the property less estimated costs to sell. The following table summarizes foreclosed property activity for the years ended December 31:  

Table 23—Foreclosed Properties  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Note: Approximately 96 percent and 73 percent of the ending balances as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, relates to properties transferred into foreclosed properties during the corresponding calendar year.  

91  

Table of Contents 

Valuation adjustments are primarily recorded in other non-interest expense; adjustments are also recorded as a charge to the allowance for loan losses if incurred within 60 days after the date of transfer from loans. Valuation adjustments are primarily post-foreclosure write-downs that are a result of continued declining property values based on updated appraisals or other indications of value, such as offers to purchase. Foreclosed property sold represents the net book value of the properties sold.  

Other Assets  

Other assets decreased $2.6 billion to $6.2 billion as of December 31, 2012. Securities sold but not yet settled balances at the end of 2011, which did not repeat in 2012, and lower derivative assets primarily drove the decrease. Reduced foreclosed properties, deferred income taxes and prepaid expense balances also contributed to the year-over-year decrease.  

Deposits  

Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions’ ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers’ needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high-quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking.  

Deposits are Regions’ primary source of funds, providing funding for 88 percent of average interest-earning assets from continuing operations in 2012 and 85 percent of average interest-earning assets from continuing operations in 2011. Table 24 “Deposits” details year-over-year deposits on a period-ending basis. Total deposits at December 31, 2012, decreased approximately $153 million compared to year-end 2011 levels. The overall decrease was driven by a significant decrease in time deposits. This decrease was largely offset by increases in almost all categories of low-cost deposits. Regions continued to focus on shifting the overall deposit mix toward low-cost deposits, with an emphasis on non-interest-bearing demand and interest-bearing transaction accounts, in an effort to reduce funding costs.  

Customer deposits, which exclude deposits used for wholesale funding purposes, decreased by 0.2 percent to $95.5 billion on an ending basis during 2012. Due to liquidity in the market, Regions has been able to steadily grow its low-cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011 and to 0.30 percent in 2012.  

Table 24—Deposits  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period classification  

92  

Table of Contents 

Regions elected to exit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s (“FDIC”) Transaction Account Guarantee (“TAG”) program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. Regions’ decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. When the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted in July 2010, it permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. Also as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, effective as of December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non-interest bearing demand transaction accounts was provided until the expiration date of the program, which was January 1, 2013. In early 2013, non-interest bearing transaction accounts have declined, but the overall impact to deposit balances and liquidity has not been significant and is within expectations.  

Within customer deposits, non-interest-bearing demand deposits increased $1.8 billion to $30.0 billion, driven primarily by an increase in non-interest bearing deposits from commercial and small businesses. Non-interest-bearing deposits accounted for approximately 31 percent of total deposits at year-end 2012 compared to 29 percent at year-end 2011. Savings balances increased $601 million to $5.8 billion, generally reflecting continued consumer savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Interest-bearing transaction accounts increased $1.7 billion to $21.1 billion due to Regions’ focus on shifting the mix of deposits. Interest-bearing transaction deposits accounted for approximately 22 percent of total deposits at year-end 2012 compared to 20 percent at year-end 2011.  

Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions’ most significant funding sources. These balances increased 8 percent in 2012 to $24.9 billion or 26 percent of total deposits, compared to 24 percent of total deposits in 2011 another reflection of the shifting in the mix of deposits.  

Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 31 percent in 2012 to $13.4 billion compared to $19.4 billion in 2011. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of the continued decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 14 percent of total deposits in 2012 compared to 20 percent in 2011.  

Consistent with 2011, total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2012 as the Company continued to utilize customer-based funding and other sources. The Company’s choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Company’s particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source.  

The sensitivity of Regions’ deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions’ average interest rate paid on interest-bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest-bearing deposits decreased to 0.43 percent in 2012 from 0.69 percent in 2011, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower cost customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout 2012. Table 25 “Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More” presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2012 and 2011.  

Table 25—Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

93  

Table of Contents 

Short-Term Borrowings  

See Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2012 and 2011. Short-term borrowings totaled $1.6 billion at December 31, 2012, compared to $3.1 billion at December 31, 2011. The levels of these borrowings can fluctuate depending on the Company’s funding needs and the sources utilized, as well as a result of customers’ activity.  

COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES  

Short-term borrowings used as a source of funding for the Company totaled $21 million at December 31, 2012, compared to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012, federal funds purchased were the only Company sources of short-term borrowings. At December 31, 2011, federal funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, and other short-term borrowings were outstanding. Other short-term borrowings were related to Morgan Keegan and included borrowings under lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintained with unaffiliated banks. As of December 31, 2012, there were no other short-term borrowings related to Morgan Keegan outstanding as a result of the sale of Morgan Keegan on April 2, 2012.  

Table 26 “Selected Short-Term Borrowings Data” provides selected information for certain short-term borrowings used for funding purposes for the years 2012, 2011, and 2010.  

Table 26—Selected Short-Term Borrowings Data  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The negative weighted-average interest rates on securities sold under agreements to repurchase during 2011 were the result of, in part, Regions’ entering into reverse-repurchase agreements. There are times when financing costs associated with these transactions are lower than typical repurchase agreement rates as a result of a supply and demand imbalance in particular collateral. Since short-term repurchase agreement rates were close to zero during the last half of 2011, the supply and demand imbalance related to securities that Regions owned led to negative financing rates.  

CUSTOMER-RELATED BORROWINGS  

Short-term borrowings that are the result of customer activity related to investment opportunities or brokerage interests totaled $1.6 billion at December 31, 2012, compared to $2.1 billion at December 31, 2011. The decrease between periods was due to decreased brokerage customer liabilities and short-sale liabilities as a result of the sale of Morgan Keegan on April 2, 2012.  

94  

Table of Contents 

Repurchase agreements are also offered as commercial banking products as short-term investment opportunities for customers. At the end of each business day, customer balances are swept into the agreement account. In exchange for cash, Regions sells the customer securities with a commitment to repurchase them on the following business day. The repurchase agreements are collateralized to allow for market fluctuations. Securities from Regions Bank’s investment portfolio are used as collateral. From the customer’s perspective, the investment earns more than a traditional money market instrument. From Regions’ standpoint, the repurchase agreements are similar to deposit accounts, although they are not insured by the FDIC or guaranteed by the United States or governmental agencies. Regions Bank does not manage the level of these investments on a daily basis as the transactions are initiated by the customers. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day-to-day basis.  

Long-Term Borrowings  

Regions’ long-term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, senior notes, subordinated notes and other long-term notes payable. Total long-term borrowings decreased $2.2 billion to $5.9 billion at December 31, 2012. At the parent company, the decrease resulted from the maturity of approximately $950 million of subordinated and senior notes. Additionally at the parent company, $345 million of 8.875% Junior Subordinated Notes were redeemed during 2012 resulting in an $11 million loss on early extinguishment of debt. At the bank level, approximately $902 million of FHLB advances were prepaid during 2012, realizing an immaterial pre-tax loss on early extinguishment. The weighted-average interest rate on total long-term debt, including the effect of derivative instruments, was 4.7%, 3.3% and 3.2% for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. See Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates.  

Other Liabilities  

Other liabilities decreased $808 million to $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2012. The decrease was primarily driven by lower derivative liabilities and accrued employee benefit costs, as well as the reduction of a liability related to a third-party investment in a REIT as a result of an early termination of the investment. These decreases were partially offset by the establishment of the indemnification obligation related to the sale of Morgan Keegan to Raymond James. See Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” and Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” for additional information.  

Ratings  

In March of 2012, Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) upgraded the credit ratings for each of the obligations of both Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank. The upgrades were attributable to the March 2012 common stock offering of approximately $875 million, net of issuance costs, as well as the redemption of 3.5 million shares of Series A preferred stock. In February of 2012, Moody’s revised its outlook for Regions Financial Corporation from negative to stable.  

On March 8, 2012, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) downgraded the junior subordinated notes of Regions Financial Corporation. This ratings action was part of a global review of securities impacted in part by capital requirements set forth in Basel III as well as Fitch’s view regarding the likelihood of sovereign support.  

On June 13, 2012, Dominion Bond Rating Service (“DBRS”) revised its outlook for Regions Financial Corporation from negative to stable.  

On October 30, 2012, Fitch revised its outlook for Regions Financial Corporation from stable to positive.  

On December 17, 2012, Moody’s upgraded the long-term ratings of Regions Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries. Regions Financial Corporation was upgraded to Ba1 from Ba3 for senior debt. Its lead bank,  

95  

Table of Contents 

 Regions Bank, was upgraded to Baa3 from Ba2 for long-term debt, to Baa3 from Ba1 for long-term deposits, and to Prime-3 from Not-Prime for short-term deposits. The standalone bank financial strength rating was affirmed at D+, but its baseline credit assessment was raised to Baa3 from Ba1. The holding company’s short-term rating was affirmed at Not-Prime. Following the rating action, the outlook is stable. The upgrade reflects Regions’ improved asset quality. The upgrade also incorporates Regions’ enhanced risk management infrastructure and reduced asset concentrations placing the company in a better position to weather another real estate cycle.  

Table 27 “Credit Ratings” reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by S&P, Moody’s, Fitch and DBRS as of December 31, 2012 and 2011.  

Table 27—Credit Ratings  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Not Prime  

In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions’ access to the capital markets or short-term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, and funding of variable rate demand notes (“VRDNs”), thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions’ financial condition and liquidity. See the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.  

A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  

96  

Table of Contents 

Stockholders’ Equity  

Stockholders’ equity was $15.5 billion at year-end 2012 versus $16.5 billion at year-end 2011. On April 4, 2012, Regions repurchased all 3.5 million shares of the Series A preferred stock issued to the U. S. Treasury. Therefore, during the second quarter of 2012, Regions derecognized the carrying value of the Series A shares in the amount of approximately $3.4 billion, and recorded approximately $71 million of amortization related to the remaining unaccreted discount, which reduced net income available to common shareholders. The total reduction to shareholders’ equity was $3.5 billion. In early May of 2012, Regions repurchased the warrant from the U.S. Treasury Department for $45 million. The transaction reduced additional paid-in capital within stockholders’ equity by $45 million. The decreases related to the Series A and warrant repurchases were offset by the March 19, 2012 issuance of 153 million shares of common stock at $5.90 per share. The proceeds from the sale, net of issuance costs, increased equity by approximately $875 million. On November 1, 2012, Regions issued $500 million in depositary shares each representing a fractional ownership interest in a share of the Company’s 6.375% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $1.00 per share. The net proceeds from the issuance increased equity by approximately $486 million. In 2012, net income increased stockholders’ equity by $1.1 billion. Cash dividends declared reduced stockholders’ equity by $54 million related to common stock, $125 million related to preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury, and $4 million related to Series A preferred stock. Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income increased equity by $134 million.  

At December 31, 2012, Regions had 23 million common shares available for repurchase through open market transactions under an existing share repurchase authorization. There were no treasury stock purchases through open market transactions during 2012 or 2011.  

Regions’ ratio of stockholders’ equity to total assets was 12.77 percent at December 31, 2012 and 12.99 percent December 31, 2011. Regions’ ratio of tangible common stockholders’ equity (stockholders’ equity less preferred stock, goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 8.63 percent at December 31, 2012 compared to 6.58 percent at December 31, 2011 (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further discussion). The increase between years was a result of the increase in common stockholders’ equity discussed above and a reduction in tangible assets.  

Regions’ annual dividend was $0.04 per common share in 2012, 2011 and 2010. Regions understands the importance of returning capital to shareholders. Management will continue to execute the capital planning process, including evaluation of the amount of the common dividend, with the Board of Directors and in conjunction with regulatory supervisors, subject to the Company’s results of operations.  

BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS  

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Company’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure. See Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

In recent years, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. This measure has been a key component of assessments of capital adequacy under the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) process. While not currently prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations, analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions’ capital adequacy using the Tier 1 common and/or the tangible common stockholders’ equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations, these measures  

97  

Table of Contents 

 are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further details).  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to impose more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more. Consequently, as part of Regions’ annual CCAR, Regions must submit its annual capital plans to the Federal Reserve. As part of the CCAR, Regions is required to submit five scenarios including the Company’s baseline forecast, the Federal Reserve’s baseline outlook, the Company’s stress case and both of the Federal Reserve’s adverse stress case and severely adverse stress case. Regions is required to maintain its capital levels above each minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout a certain time period horizon. Any capital actions requested by Regions must be submitted to the Federal Reserve for approval. The Federal Reserve has committed to responding to Regions’ capital plans by March 14, 2013. The Federal Reserve intends to publish its results of the supervisory stress test component of CCAR for Regions and all companies that are participating. Additionally, Regions intends to publish its own results of the Federal Reserve’s severely adverse case stress test for both Regions Financial Corporation and its primary bank subsidiary Regions Bank.  

Regions is evaluating the anticipated impact of Basel III which is expected to be phased in beginning in 2013. The Federal Reserve has announced a delay in the implementation date of the final rules; however, when implemented there will be a phase in period of up to 6 years. The Company’s estimated Tier 1 common ratio as of December 31, 2012, based on Regions’ current understanding of the Basel III requirements, as proposed by the U.S. Notices of Proposed Rulemaking (“NPR”) released in June 2012, was approximately 8.9 percent and therefore exceeded the Basel III minimum of 7 percent for Tier 1 common. In January 2013, the Basel Committee published an update that included revisions to the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) calculation. Inclusive in this update were provisions included but not limited to, lower deposit run-off assumptions and full implementation on a phase-in schedule. Starting in 2015, firms will be required to be at a minimum compliance ratio of 60 percent, with equal annual increase until the 100 percent minimum requirement is reached in 2019. Based on Regions’ understanding and interpretation of the rules for the calculation for the LCR under Basel III, Regions is currently above the 100 percent coverage minimum. The Company anticipates being fully compliant with the LCR requirements upon finalization and implementation. However, should Regions’ cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions’ ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. Additionally, there is still need for clarification of the Basel III rules as well as interpretation and implementation by U.S. banking regulators, so the ultimate impact of Basel III on Regions is not completely known at this point. The NPR comment period ended in October 2012; changes to the calculation resulting from the comment process could result in materially different capital ratios from the amounts estimated. Because the Basel III capital calculations are not formally defined by GAAP and are not currently prescribed in amount by the federal banking regulations, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further details).  

See the “Supervision and Regulation—Capital Requirements” subsection of the “Business” section and the “Risk Factors” section for more information. As of December 31, 2012, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized.  

98  

Table of Contents 

Table 28—Capital Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Taxable income from the two previous tax years and one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes.  

 (2) Includes $83 million and $78 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off-balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives.  

 (3) See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further details.  

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (“trust preferred securities”) in the aggregate of $1 billion at the time of issuance. During the fourth quarter of 2012, Regions redeemed all issued and outstanding 8.875% trust preferred securities issued by Regions Financing Trust III, which totaled approximately $345 million. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts’ only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long-term borrowings (see Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements), and Regions’ equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities currently constitute Tier 1 capital, but beginning in 2013, trust preferred securities will be phased out as an allowable component of Tier 1 capital over a three-year period. Additional discussion regarding the status of capital treatment for these instruments is included in the “Supervision and Regulation—Capital Requirements” section of Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

99  

Table of Contents 

Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions’ maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2012 was $774 million, which included $197 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short-term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $165 million as of December 31, 2012. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $82 million at December 31, 2012. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 “Variable Interest Entities” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

EFFECTS OF INFLATION  

The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity-to-assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation.  

Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions’ ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the Company’s interest rate positioning. The Company is moderately asset sensitive as of December 31, 2012. Refer to Table 29 “Interest Rate Sensitivity” for additional details on Regions’ interest rate sensitivity.  

EFFECTS OF DEFLATION  

A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings.  

Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions’ ability to maintain a sufficient amount of capital to cushion against future losses. However, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop.  

RISK MANAGEMENT  

Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are market risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk, international risk and credit risk. Market risk is the price and earnings variability (mainly reductions) arising from adverse changes in 1) the fair values of financial instruments due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices or the credit quality of debt securities and/or 2) the impact to net interest income based on changes in interest rates (interest rate risk) and the associated impact on prepayments (prepayment risk). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions’ ability to fund present and future obligations. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. International risk, or country exposure, is defined  

100  

Table of Contents 

 as the aggregation of exposure Regions has with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. Credit risk represents the risk that parties indebted to Regions fail to perform as contractually obligated. Regions’ primary credit risk arises from the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans, and to a lesser extent, the failure of securities issuers and counterparties to perform as contractually required.  

Management follows a formal process for identifying and documenting key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Separate from risk acceptance, there is an independent risk assessment and reporting program. To ensure that risks within the Company are appropriately addressed, the Board has designated a Risk Committee of outside directors. The Risk Committee’s focus is on Regions’ overall risk profile, and the committee receives reports from the Company’s management quarterly. Additionally, Regions’ Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process which are reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  

Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond management’s control may result in losses despite risk management efforts.  

MARKET RISK—INTEREST RATE RISK  

Regions’ primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short-term indicator of Regions’ interest rate risk.  

Sensitivity Measurement—Financial simulation models are Regions’ primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions’ balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate-related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior.  

The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on “market forward rates.” The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 50 basis points scenario, as minus 100 and 200 basis point scenarios are not considered realistic in the current rate environment. Up-rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six-month period, and include rate shifts of minus 50 basis points and plus 100 and 200 basis points.  

101  

Table of Contents 

Exposure to Interest Rate Movements—As of December 31, 2012, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending December 2013. Table 29 “Interest Rate Sensitivity” illustrates several rate shift scenarios. The protractedly low interest-rate environment that has prevailed over the past few years has led many borrowers, especially those with loans at fixed rates of interest, to refinance or prepay their loans. This has resulted in considerable pressure on net interest margin and net interest income as these loans and fixed rate investment securities were replaced by other assets at lower yields. However, at the same time, the broader economic conditions and the level of short-term interest-rates, in particular, produced ample opportunities for the reduction of deposit and borrowing costs. If long-term rates were to decline materially from the recent implied market-forward outlook, Regions’ loan and securities portfolios would expect to be subject to higher levels of prepayment. Deposit costs, having benefited from several years of very low short-term rates, would likely experience additional reduction from recent levels, but the magnitude of decline may not be as pronounced as in the past few years. In total, Regions estimates an impact of a 50 basis points instantaneous and gradual decline in interest rates at ($135) million and ($112) million respectively, for the measurement period ending December 2013. (Note that where scenarios would indicate negative interest rates, a minimum of zero is applied). In the converse environment, in which rates rise, Regions estimates that the speed of loan and securities prepayment will slow considerably and deposit rates would rise, but the negative impact of these factors would be more than offset by higher rates on new loans and securities as well as the repricing of existing floating rate loans.  

Table 29—Interest Rate Sensitivity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions’ securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of shareholders’ equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below).  

Derivatives— Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (“ALCO”), which consists of members of Regions’ senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks.  

Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate  

102  

Table of Contents 

 options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed-upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Company’s customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform.  

Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed-rate funding position to a variable-rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable-rate loan portfolio to fixed-rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held-for-sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing.  

Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non-dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and/or posted to that counterparty. The “Credit Risk” section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk.  

Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations.  

The primary objective of Regions’ hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions’ execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 20 “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities” to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions’ year-end derivatives positions and further discussion.  

On January 1, 2009, Regions began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions’ current portfolio.  

MARKET RISK—PREPAYMENT RISK  

Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage-related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower-yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions’ interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher  

103  

Table of Contents 

 rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions’ greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage-backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed-rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non-interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively evaluates prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because current interest rates are relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolios.  

MARKET RISK—BROKERAGE AND OTHER MARKET ACTIVITY RISK  

On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. and related affiliates to Raymond James Financial, Inc. The transaction closed on April 2, 2012. Refer to Note 3 “Discontinued Operations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

Regions’ capital markets business, which includes derivatives, loan syndication and foreign exchange trading activities, expose it to market risk. Further, the Company is exposed to non-trading market risk from mortgage hedging activities which include secondary marketing of loans to government-sponsored entities and mortgage servicing rights valuation.  

To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (“VAR”) model along with other risk management methods to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time-to-liquidate time horizon. The end-of-period 10-day VAR was approximately $521 thousand at December 31, 2012 and $423 thousand at December 31, 2011. Maximum 10-day VAR utilization during 2012 was $1.5 million and average 10-day VAR during the same period was $513 thousand.  

LIQUIDITY RISK  

Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions’ ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies. See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Company’s funding requirements.  

Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders’ equity. Regions’ goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting the Company’s cash flow needs. The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Company’s funding requirements.  

In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company, and affiliate levels. Regions’ holding company cash is managed to a conservative three step evaluation. The Minimum Cash Requirement utilizes a three step process that requires the parent to hold the greater of 1) two years of corporate dividends, debt service, and maturities by utilizing cash on hand, and the next four quarters’ expected dividend capacity from Regions Bank, 2) enough cash on hand with no upstream dividend capacity from Regions Bank to meet corporate dividends, debt service payments and maturities for the next 12 months, or 3) a minimum cash requirement of $500 million. Regions runs similar testing scenarios and has minimum liquidity requirements for the bank and subsidiaries. The Company’s funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on unsecured sources. Risk limits are established within the Company’s ALCO, which regularly reviews compliance  

104  

Table of Contents 

 with the established limits. Regions’ parent company cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2012 was $857 million.  

Regions’ contractual obligations and expected payment dates are presented in the following table:  

Table 30—Contractual Obligations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non-interest bearing demand, savings, interest-bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts.  

 (2) Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non-qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan.  

 (3) Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less.  

 (4) Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $55 million and tax-related interest and penalties of $1 million. See Note 19 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (5) See Note 23 “Commitments Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for the Company’s commercial commitments at December 31, 2012.  

 (6) See Note 23 “Commitments Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the indemnification obligation to Raymond James, and the rationale for the expected payment timeframe.  

The securities portfolio is one of Regions’ primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 4 “Securities” to the consolidated financial statements). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities.  

Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 11 “Selected Loan Maturities”). At December 31, 2012, commercial loans and investor real estate mortgage and construction loans with an aggregate balance of $10.6 billion were due to mature in one year or less, although Regions may renew some of these lending arrangements if the risk profile is acceptable. Additionally, securities of $38 million were due to contractually mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one-to-four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets, although Regions does not currently rely on unsecured wholesale market funding. Historically, Regions’ liquidity has been enhanced by its relatively stable customer deposit base.  

Regions elected to exit the FDIC’s TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit  

105  

Table of Contents 

 the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non-interest bearing demand transaction accounts was provided until January 1, 2013. In early 2013, non-interest bearing transaction accounts have declined, but the overall impact to deposit balances and liquidity has not been significant and is within expectations.  

Regulation Q prohibited banks from paying interest on business checking accounts in accordance with the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933. However, the Dodd-Frank Act repealed Regulation Q. In July 2011, financial institutions, such as Regions, were allowed to offer interest on corporate checking accounts. Regions responded to these changes by enhancing its existing core interest-bearing products. However, due to the low interest rate environment and unlimited FDIC insurance available on non-interest bearing balances until January 1, 2013, the Company has not experienced, nor does it anticipate experiencing significant migration of business customer balances from non-interest bearing accounts to an interest-bearing account.  

Due to the potential for uncertainty and inconsistency in the unsecured funding markets, Regions has been maintaining higher levels of cash liquidity by depositing excess cash with the Federal Reserve Bank, which is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, “interest-bearing deposits in other banks.” At December 31, 2012, Regions had over $3.5 billion in excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve. Regions’ borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2012, based on assets available for collateral at that date, was $19.6 billion.  

Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short-term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings.  

Regions’ financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. As of December 31, 2012, Regions’ borrowing availability from the FHLB totaled $6.7 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one-to-four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $73 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2012. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding.  

In February 2010, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and/or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2013. Regions expects to file a new shelf registration statement prior to the expiration of the current shelf registration statement. In 2012, Regions issued from the shelf 153 million shares of common stock with a par value $0.01 per share at $5.90 a share as well as 20 million depositary shares each representing a 1/40th ownership interest in the Company’s 6.375% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, with a $1.00 par value.  

Regions’ Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2012. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC.  

On December 3, 2012, following a notice by the Federal Reserve of proposed rulemaking which would phase-out the Tier 1 capital treatment of the trust preferred securities, Regions redeemed approximately $345 million of issued and outstanding 8.875% Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust III. Regions determined that the Federal Reserve’s approval for publication of the notice constituted a “capital  

106  

Table of Contents 

 treatment event” (as defined in the indenture related to the trust preferred securities), which allowed Regions to redeem the trust preferred securities pursuant to the terms of such securities. Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt, trust preferred securities and preferred shares in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments.  

See the “Stockholders’ Equity” section for discussion of the Federal Reserve’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review.  

COUNTERPARTY RISK  

Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect and could create financial, credit, legal, or reputational risk to the Company.  

Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and foreign corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, exposure limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, investments group, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division, and other lines of business.  

To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management.  

INTERNATIONAL RISK  

Regions has minimal sovereign credit exposure. This includes an immaterial amount in government securities issued by a single non-European sovereign, as well as a guarantee on a leveraged lease from a Western European government agency. However, Regions does have country exposure, which is defined as the aggregation of exposure with financial institutions, companies, or individuals in a given country outside of the United States. The majority of these exposures are in the form of corporate bonds purchased for the bank’s investment portfolio, derivative hedges (interest rate and foreign exchange), and leveraged lease guarantees. This exposure is concentrated in highly-rated, Western European countries but not in those most severely affected by the Eurozone turmoil.  

In addition to Western Europe and Australia, Regions’ corporate securities include investments in corporations domiciled in other countries in Eastern Europe and North America. Regions has other smaller exposures in the form of trade confirmations, due from clearing accounts and loan participations with counterparties domiciled in countries in other regions, such as Central and South America, Asia and the Middle East/North Africa region.  

At December 31, 2012, Regions’ international exposure was approximately $1.2 billion in total outstandings. Approximately 69 percent of the total exposure relates to corporate bonds. Approximately 55 percent of the total exposure relates to highly-rated Western European entities.  

Regions’ Counterparty Risk department is responsible for the setting of country limits and managing of the outstanding country exposure for all departments of the bank as well as monitoring compliance of the outstanding exposure to the established limits. Reports are sent to Counterparty Risk by the lines of business on a monthly basis to demonstrate their compliance with their set limits. Counterparty Risk conducts a formal,  

107  

Table of Contents 

 quarterly assessment of the exposure, on both an outstanding and limit basis, which is then distributed to upper management for review.  

CREDIT RISK  

Regions’ objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high-quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. See the “Credit Quality” section found earlier in this report for further information.  

Management Process  

Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and investor real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk-rated, approved and monitored.  

Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. The credit risk management division works with commercial relationship teams to analyze and underwrite new business opportunities, manage the overall loan portfolio, and perform ongoing credit servicing activities utilizing a risk-based approach which incorporates quantitative and qualitative factors.  

To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions’ Problem Asset Management Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures.  

There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios.  

Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk-rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended.  

Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio  

In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans.  

108  

Table of Contents 

Economic Environment in Regions’ Banking Markets  

One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions’ loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The “Great Recession” that began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009 took a severe toll on the U.S. economy. However, by year-end 2012 many of the economic headwinds that had restrained the economy had diminished. In particular, the housing market is recovering, consumers have reduced their leverage, and business and consumer confidence has improved.  

Considerable improvement is needed before the economy can be considered to have fully healed from the Great Recession. The housing recovery comes from a low base and permits, starts, and sales will be well short of levels that could be considered “normal” for some time to come. While having fallen to 7.8 percent by year-end 2012, the unemployment rate remains well above a level that could be considered consistent with full employment, and at least some of the decline in the unemployment rate to date has come as a result of a lower labor force participation rate. With what remains a high degree of labor market under utilization, wage and salary growth remains weak and uneven which, in turn, is reflected in a slow rate of growth in disposable personal income, particularly when adjusted for inflation.  

It is expected that the private sector of the U.S. economy will continue to strengthen throughout 2013. The housing market recovery should continue, household balance sheets should continue to improve, and corporate balance sheets are healthy. What will remain is a highly stimulative monetary policy, with the Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) actively engaged in holding down long-term interest rates that will be supportive of the recovery in the broader economy. There are, however, some economic risks that could adversely impact Regions’ operating environment over the near term.  

As 2013 begins, federal fiscal policy is exerting a drag on the economy with the potential for this drag to intensify. Higher payroll tax rates impact all workers with wage and salary earnings, even those who may not pay personal income taxes. This is expected to have a material adverse impact on growth in consumer spending during the first quarter of 2013. Moreover, with the sequestration spending cuts set to take effect March 1, 2013, the economy is facing roughly $100 billion of cutbacks in federal government expenditures on an annual basis for the next ten years, which would act as an additional drag on the broader economy. Additionally, while the risks of a catastrophic outcome in the Euro Zone have been diminished by an aggressive policy stance by the European Central Bank, the underlying structural constraints that act as a significant drag on growth in many Euro Zone nations have yet to be addressed, meaning that Europe cannot be ruled out as a downside risk.  

In summation, after the Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”) grew at 2.2 percent in 2012, the U.S. economy’s GDP is expected to grow approximately 2.0 percent in 2013, with slower growth over the first half of the year and faster growth over the second half of the year. Should the recovery broaden and strengthen over the second half of 2013, as is anticipated, economic growth would be stronger in 2014.  

Portfolio Characteristics  

Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2012, commercial loans represented 50 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 10 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 18 percent and other consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 22 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type.  

Commercial—The commercial loan portfolio segment totaled $37.1 billion at year-end 2012 and primarily consists of loans to small and mid-sized commercial and large corporate customers with business operations in Regions’ geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and are usually secured with the assets of the company and/or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Also considered as  

109  

Table of Contents 

 commercial loans are owner-occupied commercial real estate loans to businesses for long-term financing of land and buildings. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner-occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers. Net charge-offs on commercial loans were 0.89 percent in 2012 compared to 1.40 percent in 2011.  

Investor Real Estate—The investor real estate portfolio segment totaled $7.7 billion at year-end 2012 and includes various loan types. A large component of investor real estate loans is extensions of credit to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income generated by the real estate property. Net charge-offs on commercial investor real estate mortgage loans were 2.22 percent in 2012, as compared to 5.52 percent in 2011. Commercial investor real estate construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. Net charge-offs on commercial investor real estate construction decreased from 11.71 percent in 2011 to 4.03 percent in 2012.  

Residential First Mortgage—The residential first mortgage class in the consumer portfolio segment totaled $13.0 billion at year-end 2012 and primarily contains loans to individuals, which are secured by single-family residences that are originated through Regions’ branch network. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size than commercial or investor real estate loans and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions’ market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2012, losses on single-family residences totaled 1.06 percent, as compared to 1.52 percent in 2011.  

Home Equity—The home equity class in the consumer portfolio segment totaled $11.8 billion at December 31, 2012, as compared to $13.0 billion at December 31, 2011. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. During 2012, losses on home equity decreased to 1.90 percent from 2.41 percent in 2011. Most of the improvement in losses came from Florida second liens because property values in Florida markets have either stabilized or started to increase.  

Indirect—Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third-party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. Beginning in late 2010, the Company re-entered indirect auto lending. During 2012, this portfolio class increased $488 million to $2.3 billion. Losses on indirect loans were 0.72 percent for 2012, as compared to 0.75 percent for 2011.  

Consumer Credit Card—During 2011, Regions completed the purchase of existing Regions-branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. The products are primarily open-ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. During 2012, this portfolio class decreased $81 million to $906 million. Losses on consumer credit card were 4.68 percent for 2012. In the third quarter of 2012, Regions assumed the servicing of these loans from FIA Card Services.  

Other Consumer —Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses represents management’s estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year-end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Management’s assessment of the appropriateness of the allowance for  

110  

Table of Contents 

 credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments.  

Allowance Process—Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: 1) detailed reviews of individual loans; 2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge-offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; 3) the Company’s policies relating to delinquent loans and charge-offs; 4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; 5) levels and trends in non-performing and past due loans; 6) collateral values of properties securing loans; 7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; 8) management’s analysis of current economic conditions; 9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and 10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio. In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non-performing loans on at least an annual basis. For loans that are individually identified for impairment in certain loan categories, those valuations are currently discounted from the most recent appraisal to consider continued declines in property values. The discounted valuations are utilized in the measurement of the level of impairment in the allowance calculation. For loans that are not individually identified for impairment and secured by real estate, Regions considers the impact of declines in real estate valuations in the loss given default estimates within the allowance calculation.  

Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Problem Asset Management are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program for consumer lending is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent.  

For loans that are not specifically reviewed, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and management’s judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance. Adjustments to the allowance for loan losses calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through the provision for loan losses; adjustments to the reserve for unfunded credit commitments calculated using a pooled approach are recorded through noninterest expense.  

As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure the guarantor’s ability to perform under the guarantee. Evaluation of guarantors’ ability and willingness to pay is considered as part of the risk rating process, which provides the basis for the allowance for loan losses for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments. In some cases, the credit support provided by the guarantor is integral to the risk rating. In concluding that the risk rating is appropriate, Regions considers a number of factors including whether underlying cash flow is adequate to service the debt, payment history, and whether there is appropriate guarantor support. Accordingly, Regions has concluded that the impact of credit support provided by guarantors has been appropriately considered in the calculation and assessment of the allowance for loan losses.  

111  

Table of Contents 

Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Management’s determination of the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates.  

Additional discussion of the methodology used to calculate the allowance for credit losses is included in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s total, are included in Table 17 “Allowance for Credit Losses.” Also, refer to Table 18 “Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses” for details pertaining to management’s allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category.  

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS  

Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions’ process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective.  

Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  

Regions’ Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations, treasury and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, treasury, the lines of business, and administration. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from accounting, treasury, legal, audit, risk management, the lines of business and administration. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Company’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Form 10-K is presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval, and the Forms 10-Q are reviewed by the Audit Committee. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.  

As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions’ periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial  

112  

Table of Contents 

 review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary.  

COMPARISON OF 2011 WITH 2010—CONTINUING OPERATIONS  

Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million, or $0.34 per diluted common share, in 2011 compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $763 million, or $0.62 per diluted share, in 2010. Regions reported a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $25 million, or $0.02 per diluted common share, in 2011 compared to a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $692 million, or $0.56 per diluted share, in 2010. Significant drivers of 2011 results included a fourth quarter non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $731 (net of $14 million income tax impact) within the former Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust segment. Based on a relative fair value allocation, $478 million of the impairment charge was recorded within discontinued operations and $253 million within continuing operations.  

Net interest income from continuing operations was $3.4 billion in both 2011 and 2010. The net interest margin from continuing operations (taxable-equivalent basis) was 3.07 percent in 2011, compared to 2.91 percent during 2010. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a decrease of 34 basis points in the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, while being partially offset by a 15 basis point decline in the overall yield on interest earning assets. This dynamic reflected efforts to improve deposit costs and pricing on loans, while managing the challenges posed by a low interest rate environment. Long-term interest rates in particular remained low in 2011, pressuring yields on fixed-rate loan and securities portfolios, and contributed to the decline in the yield on taxable securities from 3.66 percent in 2010 to 3.08 percent in 2011. The overall costs of deposits improved from 0.78 percent in 2010 to 0.49 percent in 2011.  

Non-interest income from continuing operations totaled $2.1 billion in 2011, compared to $2.5 billion in 2010. The year-over-year decrease was due primarily to lower gains from both sales of securities and leveraged lease terminations.  

Service charges on deposit accounts decreased less than 1 percent in 2011 and totaled $1.2 billion in both 2011 and 2010. This modest decrease was driven by policy changes related to Regulation E, as well as a decline in interchange income as a result of debit interchange price controls implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011. These factors were offset by the restructuring of checking accounts from free to fee-eligible and a higher level of customer transactions.  

In 2011, mortgage income decreased $27 million, or 11 percent to $220 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage origination volume in 2011 as compared to 2010 due to decreased refinance activity during 2011 as compared to 2010. Mortgage originations totaled $6.3 billion in 2011 as compared to $8.2 billion in 2010. In addition to the decrease in origination income, market valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights and related derivatives subtracted $22 million and added $16 million to mortgage income in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Regions reported net gains of $112 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2011, compared to net gains of $394 million in 2010. The Company’s gains for both years were due to increased sales activity within the available-for-sale category as part of the Company’s asset/liability management strategies. In 2011, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $7.7 billion of securities that were primarily agency available for sale securities. The proceeds were reinvested predominately into similar securities with shorter durations. In 2010, the Company repositioned its securities portfolio and sold $9.9 billion to mitigate prepayment risk and extended the duration of the investment portfolio. The proceeds from the sales in 2011 and 2010 were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities classified as available for sale.  

Credit card / bank card income increased $34 million in 2011 as compared to 2010. Credit card income is derived from activity related to the Regions-branded credit card amounts purchased from FIA Card Services in the second quarter of 2011 and any subsequent originations. Bank card income relates to commercial purchasing cards. The increase in 2011 was primarily due to the 2011 credit card portfolio purchase.  

113  

Table of Contents 

Non-interest expense from continuing operations was $3.9 billion in both 2011 and 2010 and included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge in 2011 and a $75 million regulatory charge in 2010. See Table 6 “Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations” and the text preceding Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation”. Salaries and employee benefits remained relatively stable at $1.6 billion in 2011. At December 31, 2011, Regions had 23,707 employees compared to 24,656 at December 31, 2010.  

Net occupancy expense decreased 6 percent to $388 million in 2011. Furniture and equipment expense decreased modestly by $2 million to $275 million in 2011. Both of these decreases were primarily driven by branch consolidations.  

Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees increased $5 million to $175 million in 2011, reflecting an increase in the level of legal expenses including credit-related legal costs in 2011.  

OREO expense decreased $47 million to $162 million in 2011 compared to $209 million in 2010, primarily driven by the reduction in OREO balances along with lower valuation charges. Through Regions’ efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $158 million to $296 million in 2011 compared to $454 million in 2010.  

Net losses on loans held for sale decreased $31 million to $1 million in 2011 compared to $32 million in 2010, primarily due to firming prices.  

Deposit administrative fees decreased $3 million to $217 million in 2011. Deposit administrative fees were impacted by a new assessment rule in 2011, which revised the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The new rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk-based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the new rule was effective beginning in the second quarter of 2011. The bank regulatory agencies’ ratings, comprised of Regions Bank’s capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to risk, along with certain financial ratios are used in determining deposit administrative fees.  

During 2010, Regions prepaid approximately $2.0 billion of FHLB advances, realizing a $108 million pre-tax loss on early extinguishment. These extinguishments were part of the Company’s asset/liability management process.  

Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, postage, supplies, credit-related costs and business development services. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $18 million to $436 million in 2011, reflecting the Company controlling discretionary costs.  

The Company’s income tax benefit for 2011 was $28 million compared to a tax benefit of $376 million in 2010, resulting in an effective tax rate of (17.4) percent and 44.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in income tax benefit was primarily a result of positive consolidated pre-tax earnings and the goodwill impairment.  

At December 31, 2011, the allowance for loan losses totaled $2.7 billion or 3.54 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $3.2 billion or 3.84 percent at year-end 2010. Net charge-offs totaled $2.0 billion, or 2.44 percent of average loans in 2011 compared to $2.8 billion, or 3.22 percent of average loans in 2010. Net charge-offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2011 to the prior year. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in management’s judgment is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2011 the provision for loan losses was $1.5 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $2.9 billion in 2010. Net charge-offs exceeded the provision for loan losses during 2011 primarily due to the allowance associated with the loans transferred to held for sale, as well as improving consumer credit metrics. Non-performing assets decreased from $3.9 billion at December 31, 2010, to $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011, reflecting management’s efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures.  

114  

Table of Contents 

Table 31—Quarterly Results of Operations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Quarterly amounts may not add to year-to-date amounts due to rounding.  

 (2) High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices.  

 (3) Includes goodwill impairment of $253 million in non-interest expense from continuing operations. Discontinued operations includes goodwill impairment of $478 million, net of a $14 million income tax benefit.  

115  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data