Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis of the results of operations and financial condition of the Company and the Operating Partnership should be read in connection with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Due to the Company's ability to control the Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries, the Operating Partnership and each such subsidiary entity has been consolidated with the Company for financial reporting purposes, except for two unconsolidated operating properties. Capitalized terms used herein and not defined are as defined elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016.

Forward-Looking Statements

Forward-looking statements in this Item 7 as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on current expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions made by management. While the Company's management believes the assumptions underlying its forward-looking statements are reasonable, such information is inherently subject to uncertainties and may involve certain risks, which could cause actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Many of these uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and beyond management's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results or events. The forward-looking statements contained herein are made as of the date hereof and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or supplement these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to the following:

•We intend to actively acquire, develop and rehab multifamily properties for rental operations as market conditions dictate. We may also acquire multifamily properties that are unoccupied or in the early stages of lease up. We may 

38
be unable to lease up these apartment properties on schedule, resulting in decreases in expected rental revenues and/or lower yields due to lower occupancy and rental rates as well as higher than expected concessions or higher than expected operating expenses. We may not be able to achieve rents that are consistent with expectations for acquired, developed or rehabbed properties. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position, to complete a development property or to complete a rehab. Additionally, we expect that other real estate investors with capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop properties in markets where we focus our development and acquisition efforts. This competition (or lack thereof) may increase (or depress) prices for multifamily properties. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable property acquisitions on favorable terms. We have acquired in the past and intend to continue to pursue the acquisition of properties, including large portfolios of properties, that could increase our size and result in alterations to our capital structure. The total number of apartment units under development, costs of development and estimated completion dates are subject to uncertainties arising from changing economic conditions (such as the cost of labor and construction materials), competition and local government regulation;

•Debt financing and other capital required by the Company may not be available or may only be available on adverse terms;

•Labor and materials required for maintenance, repair, capital expenditure or development may be more expensive than anticipated;

•Occupancy levels and market rents may be adversely affected by national and local political, economic and market conditions including, without limitation, new construction and excess inventory of multifamily and owned housing/condominiums, increasing portions of owned housing/condominium stock being converted to rental use, rental housing subsidized by the government, other government programs that favor single family rental housing or owner occupied housing over multifamily rental housing, governmental regulations, slow or negative employment growth and household formation, the availability of low-interest mortgages or the availability of mortgages requiring little or no down payment for single family home buyers, changes in social preferences and the potential for geopolitical instability, all of which are beyond the Company's control; and

•Additional factors as discussed in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those under “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

Forward-looking statements and related uncertainties are also included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.

Overview

Equity Residential (“EQR”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed in March 1993, is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of rental apartment properties in urban and high-density suburban coastal gateway markets where today's affluent renters want to live, work and play. ERP Operating Limited Partnership (“ERPOP”), an Illinois limited partnership, was formed in May 1993 to conduct the multifamily residential property business of Equity Residential. EQR has elected to be taxed as a REIT. References to the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean collectively EQR, ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by EQR and/or ERPOP. References to the “Operating Partnership” mean collectively ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by ERPOP.

 EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2016 owned an approximate 96.2% ownership interest in, ERPOP. All of the Company’s property ownership, development and related business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and EQR has no material assets or liabilities other than its investment in ERPOP. EQR issues equity from time to time, the net proceeds of which it is obligated to contribute to ERPOP, but does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of the assets of the Company, including the Company’s ownership interests in its joint ventures. The Operating Partnership conducts the operations of the business and is structured as a partnership with no publicly traded equity.

The Company’s corporate headquarters is located in Chicago, Illinois and the Company also operates property management offices in each of its six core coastal markets. As of December 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 2,700 employees who provided real estate operations, leasing, legal, financial, accounting, acquisition, disposition, development and other support functions.

39
Business Objectives and Operating and Investing Strategies

The Company invests in apartment communities located in strategically targeted markets with the goal of maximizing our risk adjusted total return (operating income plus capital appreciation) on invested capital. 

We seek to maximize the income and capital appreciation of our properties by investing in markets that are characterized by conditions favorable to multifamily property operations and appreciation. We are focused on the six coastal markets of Boston, New York, Washington D.C., Southern California (including Los Angeles, Orange County and San Diego), San Francisco and Seattle. These markets generally feature one or more of the following characteristics that allow us to increase rents:

•High home ownership costs;

•Strong economic growth leading to job growth and household formation, which in turn leads to high demand for our apartments;

•Urban core and high-density suburban locations with an attractive quality of life leading to high resident demand and retention; 

•Favorable demographics contributing to a larger pool of target residents with a high propensity to rent apartments; and

•Higher barriers to entry where, because of land scarcity or government regulation, it is typically more difficult or costly to build new apartment properties, creating limits on new supply.

We believe our strategy also capitalizes on the increasing preference of renters of all ages to live in the urban core of cities or dense suburban locations near transit, entertainment and cultural amenities. Millennials, the 83 million people between ages 18 and 34, are a prime apartment rental demographic. Reports also show a growing trend among aging Baby Boomers, a demographic of more than 76 million people between the ages of 53 and 71, toward apartment rentals. We believe that both groups appreciate the locational values described above as well as the flexibility that rental apartments offer.

Our operating focus is on balancing occupancy and rental rates to maximize our revenue while exercising tight cost control to generate the highest possible return to our shareholders. Revenue is maximized by attracting qualified prospects to our properties, cost-effectively converting these prospects into new residents and keeping our residents satisfied so they will renew their leases upon expiration. While we believe that it is our high-quality, well-located assets that bring our customers to us, it is the customer service and superior value provided by our on-site personnel that keeps them renting with us and recommending us to their friends. 

We use technology to engage our customers in the way that they want to be engaged. Many of our residents utilize our web-based resident portal which allows them to sign and renew their leases, review their accounts and make payments, provide feedback and make service requests on-line.

Acquisitions and developments may be financed from various sources of capital, which may include retained cash flow, issuance of additional equity and debt, sales of properties and joint venture agreements. In addition, the Company may acquire properties in transactions that include the issuance of partnership interests in the Operating Partnership (“OP Units”) as consideration for the acquired properties. Such transactions may, in certain circumstances, enable the sellers to defer, in whole or in part, the recognition of taxable income or gain that might otherwise result from the sales. As part of its strategy, the Company purchases completed and fully occupied apartment properties, partially completed or partially occupied properties and may acquire land parcels to hold and/or sell based on market opportunities as well as options to buy more land in the future. The Company may also seek to acquire properties by purchasing defaulted or distressed debt that encumbers desirable properties in the hope of obtaining title to property through foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure proceedings.

Over the past several years, the Company has done an extensive repositioning of its portfolio into urban and highly walkable, close-in suburban assets. Since 2005, the Company has sold nearly 198,000 apartment units primarily located in the less dense portion of suburban markets for an aggregate sales price of approximately $23.5 billion, acquired nearly 69,000 apartment units primarily located in urban and high-density suburban markets for approximately $20.0 billion and began approximately $5.7 billion of development projects primarily located in urban and high-density suburban markets. We are currently seeking to acquire and develop assets in the following six core coastal metropolitan areas: Boston, New York, Washington D.C., Southern California, San Francisco and Seattle. The sale of the Starwood Portfolio combined with the other 2016 dispositions has resulted in the Company's exit from the South Florida, Denver and New England (excluding Boston) markets and has substantially completed the Company's portfolio transformation which started approximately ten years ago. See further discussion below regarding the Company's 2016 disposition activity.

40
We endeavor to attract and retain the best employees by providing them with the education, resources and opportunities to succeed. We have a commitment to diversity in all of its forms and strive to promote and maintain a work environment where all employees are treated with dignity and respect, offered opportunities for professional development and valued for their unique contributions to the Company's success. We provide many classroom and on-line training courses to assist our employees in interacting with prospects and residents as well as extensively train our customer service specialists in maintaining our properties and improvements, equipment and appliances. We actively promote from within and many senior corporate and property leaders have risen from entry level or junior positions. We monitor our employees' engagement by surveying them annually and have consistently received high engagement scores. 

We have a commitment to sustainability and consider the environmental impacts of our business activities. Sustainability and social responsibility are key drivers of our focus on creating the best apartment communities for residents to live, work and play. We have a dedicated in-house team that initiates and applies sustainable practices in all aspects of our business, including investment activities, development, property operations and property management activities. With its high density, multifamily housing is, by its nature, an environmentally friendly property type. Our recent acquisition and development activities have been primarily concentrated in pedestrian-friendly urban and close-in suburban locations near public transportation. When developing and renovating our properties, we strive to reduce energy and water usage by investing in energy saving technology while positively impacting the experience of our residents and the value of our assets. We continue to implement a combination of irrigation, lighting, HVAC and renewable energy improvements at our properties that will reduce energy and water consumption. The Company was named the 2016 Global Residential Listed Sector Leader in Sustainability by GRESB, a globally recognized analysis of the sustainability indicators of more than 750 real estate portfolios worldwide. The Company was also recently awarded the Residential Leader in the Light award for sustainability by NAREIT. For additional information regarding our sustainability efforts, see our December 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report at our website, www.equityapartments.com. For 2017, we continue to have an express company-wide goal regarding enhanced sustainability efforts. Employees, including our executives, will have their performance against our various social responsibility goals evaluated as part of our annual performance review process.

Current Environment

Following the approval by the Company's Board of Trustees, the Company executed an agreement with controlled affiliates of Starwood Capital Group ("Starwood") on October 23, 2015 to sell a portfolio of 72 operating properties consisting of 23,262 apartment units located in five markets across the United States for $5.365 billion (the "Starwood Transaction" or "Starwood Portfolio"). On January 26 and 27, 2016, the Company closed on the sale of the entire portfolio described above. The sale of the Starwood Portfolio, combined with the other 2016 dispositions, has resulted in the Company's exit from the South Florida, Denver and New England (excluding Boston) markets and has substantially completed the Company's portfolio transformation which started approximately ten years ago. These sales have narrowed the Company's focus, which is now entirely directed towards our six coastal markets. We believe the assets sold will have lower long-term returns (as compared to investments in our six coastal markets) and that we sold them for prices that are favorable. Given the strong demand for multifamily assets in our six coastal markets from institutional investors and the challenge in recycling $6.8 billion of capital in this competitive marketplace, the Company believed the best risk-adjusted use of the sale proceeds was to distribute a portion to our shareholders and use the remainder to repay outstanding debt (see further discussion below).

The Company used the majority of the proceeds from the Starwood Transaction and other 2016 dispositions to pay two special dividends to its shareholders and holders of OP Units of $11.00 per share/unit in the aggregate. The Company paid special dividends of $8.00 per share/unit (approximately $3.0 billion) on March 10, 2016 and $3.00 per share/unit (approximately $1.1 billion) on October 14, 2016. The Company used the majority of the remaining proceeds to reduce aggregate indebtedness in order to make the transaction leverage neutral. The Company retired approximately $2.0 billion in secured and unsecured debt, the majority of which was scheduled to mature in 2016 and 2017, improving the Company's already strong credit metrics. 

As a result of the Starwood Transaction and the other 2016 completed dispositions, the Company's portfolio has changed significantly from the portfolio summary included in the Company's 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following table sets forth certain information by market relating to the Company's properties at December 31, 2016 as compared to December 31, 2015:

41
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company acquired four consolidated rental properties consisting of 573 apartment units for $249.3 million. The Company acquired these properties primarily in order to protect the tax status of certain unaffiliated third parties arising from the Starwood Transaction. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company sold 98 consolidated rental properties consisting of 29,440 apartment units for $6.8 billion, which includes the sale of the Starwood Portfolio described above. The Company also sold one unconsolidated rental property consisting of 336 apartment units for $74.5 million, with the Company's share of the net sales proceeds approximating $12.4 million. In addition, the Company sold three land parcels for $57.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2016. The Company currently budgets consolidated rental acquisitions of approximately $500.0 million during the year ending December 31, 2017 to be funded with proceeds from rental dispositions. The Company currently budgets consolidated rental dispositions of approximately $500.0 million during the year ending December 31, 2017.

The Company has been reducing its development spending and starts in response to high land prices and low projected returns on investment. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company started construction on one project representing 222 apartment units totaling approximately $88.0 million of development costs and substantially completed construction on five projects representing 2,141 apartment units totaling approximately $1.1 billion of development costs. The Company currently budgets no development starts during the year ending December 31, 2017. We currently budget spending approximately $300.0 million on development costs during the year ending December 31, 2017, primarily for projects currently under construction. We currently anticipate having only $40.0 million remaining to spend during the year ending December 31, 2018 for projects currently under construction. We expect that this capital will be primarily sourced with excess operating cash flow, future debt offerings and borrowings on our revolving credit facility and/or commercial paper program.

We currently have access to multiple sources of capital including the equity markets as well as both the secured and unsecured debt markets. In February 2015, the Company entered into a $500.0 million commercial paper program, which allows for daily, weekly or monthly borrowings at low floating rates of interest. We believe this commercial paper program allows the 

42
Company to continue to reduce its already low cost of capital and we generally use the program to replace a portion of the amount that otherwise would have been outstanding under our revolving line of credit (see further discussion below). In October 2016, the Company completed a $500.0 million unsecured ten year note offering with a coupon of 2.85% and an all-in effective interest rate of approximately 3.10%. The Company has budgeted $300.0 million to $500.0 million of secured or unsecured debt offerings during 2017, excluding usage of the commercial paper program.

On November 3, 2016, the Company replaced its existing $2.5 billion facility with a $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing January 10, 2022. The Company has the ability to increase available borrowings by an additional $750.0 million by adding additional banks to the facility or obtaining the agreement of existing banks to increase their commitments. The interest rate on advances under the facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 0.825%), or based on bids received from the lending group, and the Company pays an annual facility fee (currently 12.5 basis points). Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt. We reduced the size of the facility to reflect the reduction in the size of the Company and the prepayment of a significant amount of debt during the first quarter of 2016. In the process, we were able to reduce the borrowing costs associated with this facility.

We believe that cash and cash equivalents, securities readily convertible to cash, excess operating cash flow, current availability on our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, future debt offerings and disposition proceeds for 2017 will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our funding obligations relating to asset acquisitions, debt maturities and/or prepayments and existing development projects through 2017. We expect that our remaining longer-term funding requirements will be met through some combination of new borrowings, equity issuances, property dispositions, joint ventures and cash generated from operations. 

Through their lender originator networks, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the “Government Sponsored Enterprises” or “GSEs”) are significant lenders and enhancers of tax-exempt bonds both to the Company and to buyers of the Company's properties. The GSEs have a mandate to support multifamily housing through their financing activities. Any changes to their mandates, reductions in their size or the scale of their activities or loss of key personnel could have an impact on the Company and may, among other things, lead to lower values for our assets and higher interest rates on our secured borrowings. The Company has access to multiple other forms of public and private capital and over time, we would expect that other lenders, including banks, the commercial mortgage-backed securities market and life insurance companies, will become larger sources of secured debt capital to the multifamily market, particularly as it relates to the Company's high quality apartment properties.

Same store revenues increased 3.7% during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015. The full year 2016 results were below our original expectations due primarily to elevated levels of new luxury supply combined with slower job growth in the financial services and technology sectors in the New York and San Francisco markets, which made up approximately 38% of our NOI. We anticipate these trends continuing into 2017 and as a result currently estimate same store revenue increases ranging from 1.00% to 2.25% for 2017 as compared to 2016. Although occupancy rates remain strong across our portfolio, increased supply and slowing growth in higher paying jobs in many of our markets causes the Company to anticipate revenue growth in 2017 will be lower than 2016. 

Washington D.C. continues to slowly and steadily improve, driven primarily by strong job growth. While the new administration issued a federal hiring freeze, we remain confident that demographics will continue to drive strong demand for apartments. Though new supply levels remain elevated, only about one-third of that supply is located in our submarkets. We expect continued slow improvement and expect to produce same store revenue growth of approximately 1.8% in this market in 2017.

In the New York market, elevated deliveries of new luxury supply in the Upper West Side and Brooklyn submarkets are having an impact on our ability to raise rents as renters trend towards affordability over neighborhood loyalty. There has also been a reduction in the rate of job growth in the financial services sector and technology sector, which are important demand drivers in the market. In order to remain competitive with this new supply, we offered rent concessions and increased leasing and advertising expenses throughout 2016 and will likely continue to do so during 2017. As a result, we expect there to be a decline in same store revenues of approximately 1.5% in 2017.

We have a cautious outlook for Boston as the market continues to feel the impact from an elevated level of deliveries of new supply in the downtown and Cambridge submarkets with approximately 75% of this new supply competing with our properties. Job growth has continued to improve in the market which is a positive sign that the additional supply may be absorbed without significant disruption. We expect to produce same store revenue growth of approximately 1.5% in this market in 2017. 

Seattle is producing solid rental rate growth. Strong demand is being driven by the continued growth in technology jobs in the market. While new supply remains elevated in this market, the strong job growth has enabled that supply to be fully absorbed with little disruption. Therefore, we would expect Seattle to perform well through 2017, producing same store revenue growth of 

43
approximately 4.25%.

San Francisco experienced significant volatility during peak leasing season as certain submarkets experienced elevated levels of new luxury supply combined with slower job growth in the technology sector. Currently, the market seems relatively stable, though with minimal pricing power on new leases. The market still features good demand as evidenced by how rapidly our newly completed development projects are leasing up. However, consumers have more choices as new supply continues to be delivered into most of our submarkets during 2017, limiting our pricing power. As a result, we expect to produce same store revenue growth of approximately 1.0% in this market in 2017.

Los Angeles is performing well and is positioned to be one of our better performing markets in 2017. Widely dispersed new supply, very good economic growth and a high level of job growth in the market are driving strong revenue growth. We expect to produce same store revenue growth of approximately 3.6% in this market in 2017. We expect our remaining markets in Southern California (Orange County and San Diego) to perform slightly better than Los Angeles.

Same store expenses increased 3.3% during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015. The full year 2016 results were slightly worse than our original expectations due to the following items:

•Real estate taxes increased 5.9% for the full year 2016 primarily due to rate and value increases in certain states and municipalities, reflecting those states' and municipalities' continued economic challenges and the dramatic improvement in apartment values and fundamentals, the contractual annual reduction in the benefits of 421-a tax abatements in New York City and an adverse legal decision regarding the calculation of property taxes for certain properties in New Jersey; and

•Payroll costs increased by 3.1% in 2016 over 2015 primarily due to an increase in on-site staffing to remain competitive within challenging markets, as well as higher on-site wages due to competition from new supply.

We anticipate same store expense increases ranging from 3.0% to 4.0% for 2017 as compared to 2016 due to the following items:

•Real estate taxes are estimated to increase between 4.0% and 5.0% due primarily to increased values in most markets partially offset by declining rates. We expect 1.8 percentage points of the increase coming from 421-a tax abatement benefits expiring in New York; 

•Payroll costs are estimated to increase between 4.0% and 5.0% primarily due to an increase in on-site staffing to remain competitive within challenging markets, as well as higher on-site wages due to competition from new supply; 

•Utilities are estimated to increase approximately 2.0% primarily due to moderate increases in natural gas costs; and 

•Repair and maintenance expenses are estimated to be approximately $1.0 million higher due to increases in the minimum wage that impact our outside cleaning and landscaping vendors. 

We anticipate same store NOI increases ranging from 0.0% to 2.0% for 2017 as compared to 2016 as a result of the above same store revenue and expense expectations.

The Company expects total overhead costs (property management expense and general and administrative expense) to decline approximately $3.0 million in 2017 over 2016 as we have largely completed right sizing our overhead platform to our smaller asset size. As certain of the Company's overhead costs are fixed and/or not quickly scalable, the Company anticipates overhead costs as a percentage of total revenues will remain elevated as compared to 2015 levels, though slightly lower as compared to 2016 levels.

We believe that the Company is well-positioned in the long-term as a result of favorable demographics and increasing consumer preferences for the flexibility of rental housing. As of December 31, 2016, the Company's same store occupancy was 95.7% and its total portfolio-wide occupancy was 94.6%. We believe our markets/metro areas will continue to see increased luxury multifamily supply, especially in our urban core locations, and there will continue to be periods of disruption as new development projects lease up. We believe over the longer term that our markets will absorb future supply because of the strong long-term demand in these markets as exhibited by our current high occupancy levels and increasing household formations. We have seen evidence of this in Seattle as elevated levels of new supply have been absorbed and rental rates continue to grow. We also anticipate supply declining in our markets beginning in 2018, with the possible exception of New York, because of high construction costs, lower revenue growth and development lenders materially reducing their lending activities due to regulatory pressures and concerns over markets being overbuilt.

The current environment information presented above is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

44
Results of Operations

In conjunction with our business objectives and operating strategy, the Company continued to invest in apartment properties located in our six coastal markets and sell apartment properties located primarily in the less dense portion of suburban markets during the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015. In summary, we:

Year Ended December 31, 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Sold one unconsolidated property consisting of 336 apartments units for $74.5 million (our share of the net sales proceeds approximated $12.4 million), generating a Disposition Yield of 5.6%; 

•Sold our entire interest in the management contracts and related rights associated with the military housing ventures at Joint Base Lewis McChord consisting of 5,161 apartment units for approximately $63.3 million and sold three land parcels for $57.5 million; and

•Started the construction on one project consisting of 222 apartment units totaling approximately $88.0 million of development costs and substantially completed construction on five projects consisting of 2,141 apartment units totaling approximately $1.1 billion of development costs.

Year Ended December 31, 2015:

•Acquired four consolidated apartment properties consisting of 625 apartment units for $296.0 million at a weighted average Acquisition Cap Rate of 4.5% and three contiguous land parcels for $27.8 million; 

•Sold eight consolidated apartment properties consisting of 1,857 apartments units as well as a 193,230 square foot medical office building for $513.3 million at a weighted average Disposition Yield of 5.3% and generating an Unlevered IRR of 13.4%; and 

•Started construction on two projects consisting of 623 apartment units totaling approximately $377.2 million of development costs and substantially completed construction on seven projects consisting of 1,546 apartments units totaling approximately $831.7 million of development costs.

The Company's primary financial measure for evaluating each of its apartment communities is net operating income (“NOI”). NOI represents rental income less direct property operating expenses (including real estate taxes and insurance). The Company believes that NOI is helpful to investors as a supplemental measure of its operating performance because it is a direct measure of the actual operating results of the Company's apartment properties.

The definitions of certain terms described above are as follows:

•Acquisition Cap Rate – NOI that the Company anticipates receiving in the next 12 months (or the year two or three stabilized NOI for properties that are in lease-up at acquisition) less an estimate of property management costs/management fees allocated to the project (generally ranging from 2.0% to 4.0% of revenues depending on the size and income streams of the asset) and less an estimate for in-the-unit replacement capital expenditures (generally ranging from $100-$450 per apartment unit depending on the age and condition of the asset) divided by the gross purchase price of the asset. The weighted average Acquisition Cap Rate for acquired properties is weighted based on the projected NOI streams and the relative purchase price for each respective property.

•Disposition Yield – NOI that the Company anticipates giving up in the next 12 months less an estimate of property management costs/management fees allocated to the project (generally ranging from 2.0% to 4.0% of revenues depending on the size and income streams of the asset) and less an estimate for in-the-unit replacement capital expenditures (generally ranging from $100-$450 per apartment unit depending on the age and condition of the asset) divided by the gross sale price of the asset. The weighted average Disposition Yield for sold properties is weighted based on the projected NOI streams and the relative sales price for each respective property.

•Unlevered Internal Rate of Return (“IRR”) – The Unlevered IRR on sold properties refers to the internal rate of return calculated by the Company based on the timing and amount of (i) total revenue earned during the period owned by the 

45
Company and (ii) the gross sales price net of selling costs, offset by (iii) the undepreciated capital cost of the properties at the time of sale and (iv) total direct property operating expenses (including real estate taxes and insurance) incurred during the period owned by the Company. Each of the items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) is calculated in accordance with GAAP. 

Properties that the Company owned and were stabilized (see definition below) for all of both 2016 and 2015 (the “2016 Same Store Properties”), which represented 69,879 apartment units, impacted the Company's results of operations. Properties that the Company owned for all of both 2015 and 2014 (the “2015 Same Store Properties”), which represented 96,286 apartment units, also impacted the Company's results of operations. Both the 2016 Same Store Properties and 2015 Same Store Properties are discussed in the following paragraphs.

The following tables provide a rollforward of the apartment units included in Same Store Properties and a reconciliation of apartment units included in Same Store Properties to those included in Total Properties for the year ended December 31, 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Properties are considered "stabilized" when they have achieved 90% occupancy for three consecutive months. Properties are included in Same Store when they are stabilized for all of the current and comparable periods presented.

(1)Includes one property containing 285 apartment units (Playa Pacifica in Hermosa Beach, California) which was removed from the same store portfolio in 2015 due to a major renovation in which significant portions of the property were taken offline for extended time periods and one property containing 71 apartment units (Acton Courtyard in Berkeley, California) which was removed from the same store portfolio in 2016 due to an affordable housing dispute which required significant portions of the property to be vacant for an extended releasing period. As of December 31, 2016, Playa Pacifica had an occupancy of only 66.2% and Acton Courtyard had an occupancy of 69.0%. These properties will not return to the same store portfolio until they are stabilized for all of the current and comparable periods presented.

(2)Includes three properties containing 853 apartment units that are owned by the Company but the entire projects are master leased to a third party corporate housing provider and the Company earns monthly net rental income.

(3)Includes properties in various stages of lease-up and properties where lease-up has been completed but the properties were not stabilized for the comparable periods presented.

The Company's acquisition, disposition and completed development activities also impacted overall results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. The impacts of these activities are discussed in greater detail in the following 

46
paragraphs.

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2016 to the year ended December 31, 2015 

For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company reported diluted earnings per share/unit of $11.68 compared to $2.36 per share/unit for the year ended December 31, 2015. The difference is primarily due to approximately $3.7 billion in higher gains on property sales and lower depreciation expense in 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 as a direct result of the significant sales activity in 2016, partially offset by significantly higher debt extinguishment costs in 2016 compared to 2015.

For the year ended December 31, 2016, income from continuing operations increased approximately $3.6 billion when compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase in continuing operations is discussed below.

For the year ended December 31, 2016, consolidated rental income decreased 11.5%, consolidated operating expenses (comprising of property and maintenance and real estate taxes and insurance) decreased 11.6% and consolidated NOI decreased 11.5% when compared to the year ended December 31, 2015. The declines are all primarily a result of the Company's significant disposition activity in 2016.

Revenues from the 2016 Same Store Properties increased $78.1 million primarily as a result of an increase in average rental rates charged to residents. Expenses from the 2016 Same Store Properties increased $20.2 million primarily as a result of an increase in real estate taxes, on-site payroll costs, repairs and maintenance expenses and leasing and advertising expenses, partially offset by lower utility costs. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2016 Same Store Properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Same store operating expenses and same store NOI no longer include an allocation of property management expenses either in the current or comparable periods.

(1)Average Rental Rate – Total residential rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the reporting period

 presented.

(2)Physical Occupancy – The weighted average occupied apartment units for the reporting period divided by the average of total apartment

 units available for rent for the reporting period.

(3)Turnover – Total residential move-outs divided by total residential apartment units, including inter-property and intra-property transfers.

The following table provides comparative same store operating expenses for the 2016 Same Store Properties:

47
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Same store operating expenses and same store NOI no longer include an allocation of property management expenses either in the current or comparable periods. 

(1)On-site payroll – Includes payroll and related expenses for on-site personnel including property managers, leasing consultants and

 maintenance staff.

(2)Utilities – Represents gross expenses prior to any recoveries under the Resident Utility Billing System (“RUBS”). Recoveries are reflected

 in rental income.

(3)Repairs and maintenance – Includes general maintenance costs, apartment unit turnover costs including interior painting, routine landscaping,

 security, exterminating, fire protection, snow removal, elevator, roof and parking lot repairs and other miscellaneous building repair and 

 maintenance costs.

(4)Other on-site operating expenses – Includes ground lease costs and administrative costs such as office supplies, telephone and data charges

 and association and business licensing fees.

The following tables present reconciliations of operating income per the consolidated statements of operations to NOI, along with rental income, operating expenses and NOI per the consolidated statements of operations allocated between same store and non-same store results:

48
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For properties that the Company acquired or completed that were stabilized prior to January 1, 2016 and that the Company expects to continue to own through December 31, 2017, the Company anticipates the following same store results for the full year ending December 31, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company anticipates consolidated rental acquisitions of $500.0 million and consolidated rental dispositions of $500.0 million and expects that the Acquisition Cap Rate will be 0.75% lower than the Disposition Yield for the full year ending December 31, 2017.

These 2017 assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.

Non-same store NOI results decreased approximately $277.5 million compared to the same period in 2015 and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2015 and 2016, operations from the Company’s development properties and operations prior to disposition from 2016 sold properties (including the Starwood Portfolio). This decrease primarily resulted from:

•The lost NOI from 2015 and 2016 dispositions of $333.2 million;

•A decrease in operating activities from other miscellaneous properties (including three master-leased properties) of $1.2 million;

•A decrease in operating activities from other miscellaneous operations; and

•A partial offset from development and newly stabilized development properties in lease-up of $50.8 million and 

49
operating properties acquired in 2015 and 2016 of $15.2 million.

See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures.

Fee and asset management revenues decreased approximately $4.8 million or 57.5% primarily as a result of lower revenue earned on management of the Company's military housing ventures at Joint Base Lewis McChord due to the sale of the Company's entire interest in the management contracts and related rights associated with these ventures in the second quarter of 2016 as well as lower fees earned on management of the Company's unconsolidated joint ventures.

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company’s properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses decreased approximately $4.2 million or 4.9%. This decrease is primarily attributable to a decrease in payroll-related costs, office rent and education conference fees, partially offset by increases in computer operations costs. The Company anticipates that property management expenses will approximate $83.0 million to $85.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2017. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, decreased approximately $6.8 million or 10.6% primarily due to a decrease in payroll-related costs, partially offset by an increase in directors fees and office rent. The Company anticipates that general and administrative expenses will approximate $50.0 million to $52.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2017, excluding charges of approximately $0.4 million related to the Company's current executive compensation program. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, decreased approximately $60.2 million or 7.9% primarily as a result of no depreciation or a partial period of depreciation expense during the year ended December 31, 2016 related to the significant property sales in 2016 (including the Starwood Portfolio), partially offset by additional depreciation expense on properties acquired in 2016 and development properties placed in service.

Interest and other income from continuing operations increased approximately $58.4 million primarily due to the approximate $52.4 million gain from the sale of the Company's entire interest in the management contracts and related rights associated with the military housing ventures at Joint Base Lewis McChord and approximate $6.0 million gain from the sale of 421-a real estate tax certificates during the year ended December 31, 2016, neither of which occurred in 2015. The Company anticipates that interest and other income will approximate $0.5 million for the year ending December 31, 2017. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Other expenses from continuing operations increased approximately $7.4 million primarily due to increases in litigation/environmental reserve and/or settlement costs, property acquisition costs incurred in conjunction with the Company's 2016 acquisitions and the expensing of overhead (pursuit cost write-offs) as a result of fewer new development opportunities.

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, increased approximately $39.6 million or 8.7% primarily as a result of prepayment penalties and debt extinguishment costs associated with the repayment of approximately $1.7 billion in debt principal prior to scheduled maturity, partially offset by lower interest expense as a result of these repayments. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $51.5 million as compared to $59.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. This capitalization of interest relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2016 was 4.68% as compared to 4.72% for the year ended December 31, 2015. The Company anticipates that interest expense from continuing operations, excluding debt extinguishment costs/prepayment penalties, will approximate $362.6 million to $379.0 million and capitalized interest will approximate $23.0 million to $28.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2017. The above assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.

Income and other tax expense from continuing operations increased approximately $0.7 million or 75.9% primarily due to increases in various state and local taxes related to the Company's elevated disposition activity in 2016 vs. 2015. The Company anticipates that income and other tax expense will approximate $0.5 million to $1.5 million for the year ending December 31, 2017. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Income from investments in unconsolidated entities decreased approximately $10.2 million or 68.0% primarily due to $18.6 million in favorable litigation settlements which occurred during the year ended December 31, 2015, partially offset by a gain on the sale of one unconsolidated apartment property totaling $8.8 million which occurred during the year ended December 31, 2016.

50
Net gain on sales of real estate properties increased approximately $3.7 billion as a result of the sale of 98 consolidated apartment properties (including the Starwood Portfolio) during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to only eight consolidated apartment property sales during the year ended December 31, 2015, all of which did not meet the new criteria for reporting discontinued operations. See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Net gain on sales of land parcels increased approximately $15.7 million due to the gain on sale of three land parcels during the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to no land sales during the year ended December 31, 2015.

Discontinued operations, net increased approximately $0.1 million or 30.5% between the periods under comparison. This increase is primarily due to the timing of trailing activity for properties sold in 2013 and prior years. The Company adopted the new discontinued operations standard effective January 1, 2014 and as a result, none of the properties sold during the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 met the new criteria for reporting discontinued operations. See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2015 to the year ended December 31, 2014 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company reported diluted earnings per share/unit of $2.36 compared to $1.73 per share/unit for the year ended December 31, 2014. The difference is primarily due to approximately $122.3 million in higher gains on property sales as well as improved operations in 2015 vs. 2014.

For the year ended December 31, 2015, income from continuing operations increased approximately $250.5 million when compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase in continuing operations is discussed below.

Revenues from the 2015 Same Store Properties increased $125.3 million primarily as a result of an increase in average rental rates charged to residents, higher occupancy and a decrease in turnover. Expenses from the 2015 Same Store Properties increased $20.5 million primarily due to increases in real estate taxes, repairs and maintenance expenses and payroll/property management costs, partially offset by lower utility costs. The following tables provide comparative same store results and statistics for the 2015 Same Store Properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Average rental rate is defined as total rental revenues divided by the weighted average occupied apartment units for the period.

The following table provides comparative same store operating expenses for the 2015 Same Store Properties:

51
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)On-site payroll – Includes payroll and related expenses for on-site personnel including property managers, leasing consultants and maintenance staff.

(2)Utilities – Represents gross expenses prior to any recoveries under the Resident Utility Billing System (“RUBS”). Recoveries are reflected in rental income.

(3)Repairs and maintenance – Includes general maintenance costs, apartment unit turnover costs including interior painting, routine landscaping, security, exterminating, fire protection, snow removal, elevator, roof and parking lot repairs and other miscellaneous building repair costs.

(4)Property management costs – Includes payroll and related expenses for departments, or portions of departments, that directly support on-site management. These include such departments as regional and corporate property management, property accounting, human resources, training, marketing and revenue management, procurement, real estate tax, property legal services and information technology.

(5)Other on-site operating expenses – Includes ground lease costs and administrative costs such as office supplies, telephone and data charges and association and business licensing fees.

The following table presents a reconciliation of operating income per the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income to NOI for the 2015 Same Store Properties:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-same store operating results increased approximately $4.5 million and consist primarily of properties acquired in calendar years 2014 and 2015 as well as operations from the Company’s completed development properties. This increase primarily resulted from:

•Development and newly stabilized development properties in lease-up of $27.8 million;

•Operating properties acquired in 2014 and 2015 of $18.1 million;

•Operating activities from other miscellaneous operations; and

•Was mostly offset by lost NOI from 2014 and 2015 dispositions of $41.8 million as well as a decrease in operating activities from other miscellaneous properties (including three master-leased properties) of $2.2 million.

See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures.

52
Fee and asset management revenues decreased approximately $1.1 million or 11.1% primarily as a result of lower revenue earned on management of the Company's military housing ventures at Joint Base Lewis McChord and lower fees earned on management of the Company's unconsolidated development joint ventures.

Property management expenses from continuing operations include off-site expenses associated with the self-management of the Company’s properties as well as management fees paid to any third party management companies. These expenses increased approximately $1.1 million or 1.3%. This increase is primarily attributable to an increase in payroll-related costs and education/conferences fees.

General and administrative expenses from continuing operations, which include corporate operating expenses, increased approximately $14.0 million or 27.6% primarily due to an increase in payroll-related costs, including an additional $8.0 million related to the Company's revised executive compensation program. 

Depreciation expense from continuing operations, which includes depreciation on non-real estate assets, increased approximately $7.0 million or 0.9% primarily as a result of additional depreciation expense on properties acquired in 2014 and 2015, development properties placed in service and capital expenditures for all properties owned, partially offset by no depreciation or a partial period of depreciation expense during the year ended December 31, 2015 for properties sold in 2015 and 2014 and properties classified as held for sale at December 31, 2015. 

Interest and other income from continuing operations increased approximately $2.9 million or 65.2% primarily due to the settlement of various litigation/insurance claims during the year ended December 31, 2015. 

Other expenses from continuing operations decreased approximately $6.1 million or 67.6% primarily due to litigation settlement costs recorded during the year ended December 31, 2014 that did not reoccur in 2015 as well as a reduction in the reserve for a litigation matter recorded during the year ended December 31, 2015, partially offset by an increase in the expensing of overhead (pursuit cost write-offs) as a result of a more active focus on sourcing new development opportunities.

Interest expense from continuing operations, including amortization of deferred financing costs, decreased approximately $13.3 million or 2.8% primarily as a result of the repayment of $300.0 million of 6.584% unsecured notes in April 2015, the repayment of $500.0 million of 5.25% unsecured notes in September 2014, the repayment of the Company's $750.0 million unsecured term loan facility in June 2014, mortgage payoffs and higher capitalized interest, partially offset by interest expense on $750.0 million of unsecured notes that closed in May 2015 and $1.2 billion of unsecured notes that closed in June 2014. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company capitalized interest costs of approximately $59.9 million as compared to $52.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. This capitalization of interest primarily relates to consolidated projects under development. The effective interest cost on all indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2015 was 4.72% as compared to 4.74% for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

Income and other tax expense from continuing operations decreased approximately $0.5 million or 34.2% primarily due to decreases in estimated taxes related to properties sold and/or operated by the Company's TRS in 2015 vs. 2014. 

Income from investments in unconsolidated entities increased approximately $23.0 million primarily due to gains on the sale of certain assets owned by the Company's joint ventures with a joint venture partner and due to $18.6 million in favorable litigation settlements, neither of which occurred during the year ended December 31, 2014.

Net gain on sales of real estate properties increased approximately $122.4 million or 57.6% as a result of higher gains on the sale of eight consolidated apartment properties during the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to ten consolidated property sales during the year ended December 31, 2014, all of which did not meet the new criteria for reporting discontinued operations. See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

Net gain on sales of land parcels decreased approximately $5.3 million due to the gain on sale of three land parcels during the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to no land sales during the year ended December 31, 2015.

Discontinued operations, net decreased approximately $1.2 million or 74.9% between the periods under comparison. This decrease is primarily due to the Company's adoption of the new discontinued operations standard effective January 1, 2014. None of the properties sold during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 met the new criteria for reporting discontinued operations and as a result, the amounts included in discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 represent trailing activity for properties sold in 2013 and prior years. See Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

53
Liquidity and Capital Resources

EQR issues public equity from time to time and guarantees certain debt of the Operating Partnership. EQR does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership.

As of January 1, 2016, the Company had approximately $42.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and the amount available on its revolving credit facility was $2.07 billion (net of $45.1 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and net of $387.5 million outstanding on the commercial paper program). After taking into effect the various transactions discussed in the following paragraphs and the net cash provided by operating activities, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents balance at December 31, 2016 was approximately $77.2 million and the amount available on its revolving credit facility was $1.96 billion (net of $20.6 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and net of the $20.0 million outstanding on the commercial paper program).

During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company generated proceeds from various transactions, which included the following:

•Disposed of 98 consolidated rental properties (including the Starwood Portfolio) and three land parcels, receiving net proceeds of approximately $6.8 billion;

•Disposed of one unconsolidated rental property, receiving net proceeds of approximately $12.4 million;

•Disposed of its entire interest in the management contracts and related rights associated with the military housing ventures at Joint Base Lewis McChord along with the sale of certain 421-a real estate tax certificates, receiving net proceeds of approximately $72.8 million;

•Issued $500.0 million of ten-year 2.85% fixed rate public notes, receiving net proceeds of $496.7 million before underwriting fees, hedge termination costs and other expenses, at an all-in effective interest rate of approximately 3.10%; and 

•Issued approximately 0.9 million Common Shares related to share option exercises and ESPP purchases and received net proceeds of $39.5 million, which were contributed to the capital of the Operating Partnership in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis).

During the year ended December 31, 2016 , the above proceeds along with net cash flow from operations and availability on the Company's revolving line of credit and commercial paper program were primarily utilized to:

•Acquire four consolidated rental properties for approximately $205.9 million in cash; 

•Invest $566.8 million primarily in development projects;

•Pay a special dividend of $8.00 per share/unit (approximately $3.0 billion) on March 10, 2016 to shareholders/unitholders of record as of March 3, 2016 and a special dividend of $3.00 per share/unit (approximately $1.1 billion) on October 14, 2016 to shareholders/unitholders of record as of September 26, 2016;

•Repay $591.7 million of mortgage loans and incur a prepayment penalty of approximately $31.7 million;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In September 2009, EQR announced the establishment of an At-The-Market (“ATM”) share offering program which would allow EQR to sell Common Shares from time to time into the existing trading market at current market prices as well as through negotiated transactions. Per the terms of ERPOP’s partnership agreement, EQR contributes the net proceeds from all equity offerings to the capital of ERPOP in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis). EQR may, but shall have no obligation to, sell Common Shares through the ATM share offering program in amounts and at times to be determined by EQR. Actual sales will depend on a variety of factors to be determined by EQR from time to time, including (among others) market conditions, the trading price of EQR’s Common Shares and determinations of the appropriate sources of funding for EQR. The program currently has a maturity of June 2019. EQR has the authority to issue 13.0 million shares but has 

54
not issued any shares under this program since September 2012. Through February 17, 2017, EQR has cumulatively issued approximately 16.7 million Common Shares at an average price of $48.53 per share for total consideration of approximately $809.9 million. 

Depending on its analysis of market prices, economic conditions and other opportunities for the investment of available capital, EQR may repurchase its Common Shares pursuant to its existing share repurchase program authorized by the Board of Trustees. The Company may repurchase up to 13.0 million Common Shares under this program. EQR repurchased approximately $1.8 million (31,240 shares at a price of $56.87 per share) of its Common Shares (all related to the vesting of employees' restricted shares) during the year ended December 31, 2014. No open market repurchases have occurred since 2008. As of February 17, 2017, EQR has remaining authorization to repurchase up to 13.0 million of its shares. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.

Depending on its analysis of prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors, the Company may from time to time seek to repurchase and retire its outstanding debt in open market or privately negotiated transactions.

The Company’s total debt summary and debt maturity schedules as of December 31, 2016 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are for the year ended December 31, 2016.

(2)Fair value interest rate swaps convert the $450.0 million 2.375% notes due July 1, 2019 to a floating interest rate of 90-Day LIBOR plus 0.61%.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: The Company capitalized interest of approximately $51.5 million and $59.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

Note: The Company recorded approximately $24.3 and $8.6 million of net debt discount/deferred derivative settlement amortization as additional interest expense during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

55
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Net of the effect of any derivative instruments. Weighted average rates are as of December 31, 2016.

(2)Includes $20.0 million in principal outstanding on the Company's unsecured commercial paper program. The company may borrow up to a maximum of $500.0 million on the program subject to market conditions. 

The following table provides a summary of the Company’s unsecured debt as of December 31, 2016:

56
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Fair value interest rate swaps convert the $450.0 million 2.375% notes due July 1, 2019 to a floating interest rate of 90-Day LIBOR plus 0.61%.

(2)Facility/program is private. All other unsecured debt is public.

(3)On November 3, 2016, the Company replaced its existing $2.5 billion facility with a new $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing January 10, 2022. The interest rate on advances under the new credit facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 0.825%) and an annual facility fee (currently 12.5 basis points). Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long term debt. As of December 31, 2016, there was approximately $1.96 billion available on the Company's unsecured revolving credit facility (net of $20.6 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and $20.0 million outstanding on the commercial paper program).

(4)The Company may borrow up to a maximum of $500.0 million on the commercial paper program subject to market conditions. The notes bear interest at various floating rates with a weighted average of 0.90% for the year ended December 31, 2016 and a weighted average maturity of 4 days as of December 31, 2016.

EQR and ERPOP currently have an active universal shelf registration statement for the issuance of equity and debt securities that automatically became effective upon filing with the SEC on June 28, 2016 and expires on June 28, 2019. Per the terms of ERPOP's partnership agreement, EQR contributes the net proceeds of all equity offerings to the capital of ERPOP in exchange for additional OP Units (on a one-for-one Common Share per OP Unit basis) or preference units (on a one-for-one preferred share per preference unit basis).

The Company’s “Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio” as of December 31, 2016 is presented in the following table. The Company calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Common Shares and assumed conversion of all Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preferred shares outstanding.

57
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Operating Partnership’s “Consolidated Debt-to-Total Market Capitalization Ratio” as of December 31, 2016 is presented in the following table. The Operating Partnership calculates the equity component of its market capitalization as the sum of (i) the total outstanding Units at the equivalent market value of the closing price of the Company’s Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange and (ii) the liquidation value of all perpetual preference units outstanding.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

58
The Company generally expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements, including capital expenditures related to maintaining its existing properties and scheduled unsecured note and mortgage note repayments, through its working capital, net cash provided by operating activities and borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility and commercial paper program. Under normal operating conditions, the Company considers its cash provided by operating activities to be adequate to meet operating requirements and payments of distributions. 

The Company has a flexible dividend policy which it believes will generate payouts closely aligned with the actual annual operating results of the Company’s core business and provide transparency to investors. Beginning in 2014, the Company began paying its annual dividend based on 65% of the midpoint of the range of Normalized FFO guidance customarily provided as part of the Company's fourth quarter earnings release. The Company's 2016 regular annual dividend payout was $2.015 per share/unit and the Company paid four regular quarterly dividends of $0.50375 per share/unit in 2016. In addition to the regular quarterly dividends, the Company paid two special dividends to its shareholders and holders of OP Units of $11.00 per share/unit in the aggregate. The Company paid special dividends of $8.00 per share/unit (approximately $3.0 billion) on March 10, 2016 and $3.00 per share/unit (approximately $1.1 billion) on October 14, 2016. All future dividends remain subject to the discretion of the Board of Trustees. 

While our current dividend policy makes it less likely that we will over distribute, it will also lead to a dividend reduction more quickly should operating results deteriorate or large portfolio sales occur. However, whether due to changes in the dividend policy or otherwise, there may be times when the Company experiences shortfalls in its coverage of distributions, which may cause the Company to consider reducing its distributions and/or using the proceeds from property dispositions or additional financing transactions to make up the difference. Should these shortfalls occur for lengthy periods of time or be material in nature, the Company's financial condition may be adversely affected and it may not be able to maintain its current distribution levels. The Company believes that its expected 2017 operating cash flow will be sufficient to cover capital expenditures and regular dividends/distributions.

The Company also expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements, such as lump sum unsecured note and mortgage debt maturities, property acquisitions, financing of construction and development activities through the issuance of secured and unsecured debt and equity securities, including additional OP Units, proceeds received from the disposition of certain properties and joint ventures and cash generated from operations after all distributions. In addition, the Company has significant unencumbered properties available to secure additional mortgage borrowings in the event that the public capital markets are unavailable or the cost of alternative sources of capital is too high. The fair value of and cash flow from these unencumbered properties are in excess of the requirements the Company must maintain in order to comply with covenants under its unsecured notes, line of credit and commercial paper program. Of the $25.4 billion in investment in real estate on the Company’s balance sheet at December 31, 2016, $18.7 billion or 73.8% was unencumbered. However, there can be no assurances that these sources of capital will be available to the Company in the future on acceptable terms or otherwise.

ERPOP's long-term senior debt ratings and short-term commercial paper ratings as well as EQR's long-term preferred equity ratings as of February 17, 2017 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Moody's rated ERPOP's long-term senior debt with a positive outlook.

(2)Moody's rated EQR's long-term preferred equity with a positive outlook.

The long-term ratings listed above were reaffirmed following the Company's announcement of the Starwood Transaction and other 2016 dispositions. 

On November 3, 2016, the Company replaced its existing $2.5 billion facility with a $2.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility maturing January 10, 2022. The Company has the ability to increase available borrowings by an additional $750.0 million by adding additional banks to the facility or obtaining the agreement of existing banks to increase their commitments. The interest rate on advances under the facility will generally be LIBOR plus a spread (currently 0.825%), or based on bids received from the lending group, and the Company pays an annual facility fee (currently 12.5 basis points). Both the spread and the facility fee are dependent on the credit rating of the Company's long-term debt.

59
The Company's previous $2.5 billion unsecured revolving credit facility was set to mature on April 2, 2018. The Company had the ability to increase available borrowings by an additional $500.0 million by adding additional banks to the facility or obtaining the agreement of existing banks to increase their commitments. The interest rate on advances under the facility was generally LIBOR plus a spread (was 0.95% at termination), or based on bids received from the lending group, and the Company paid an annual facility fee (was 15 basis points at termination). Both the spread and the facility fee were dependent on the credit rating of the Company’s long-term debt. 

On February 2, 2015, the Company entered into an unsecured commercial paper note program in the United States. The Company may borrow up to a maximum of $500.0 million under this program subject to market conditions. The notes will be sold under customary terms in the United States commercial paper note market and will rank pari passu with all of the Company's other unsecured senior indebtedness. The Company does not intend to borrow more than $2.0 billion on the commercial paper program and new revolving credit facility combined. As of February 17, 2017, there was a balance of $100.0 million outstanding on the commercial paper program. 

As of February 17, 2017, no amounts were outstanding and the amount available on the revolving credit facility was $1.88 billion (net of $20.6 million which was restricted/dedicated to support letters of credit and net of the $100.0 million outstanding on the commercial paper program). This facility may, among other potential uses, be used to fund property acquisitions, costs for certain properties under development and short-term liquidity requirements.

See Note 18 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the events which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2016.

Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate

Our policy with respect to capital expenditures is generally to capitalize expenditures that improve the value of the property or extend the useful life of the component asset of the property. We track improvements to real estate in two major categories and several subcategories:

▪Replacements (inside the apartment unit). These include:

•flooring such as carpets, hardwood, vinyl or tile;

•appliances;

•mechanical equipment such as individual furnace/air units, hot water heaters, etc;

•furniture and fixtures such as kitchen/bath cabinets, light fixtures, ceiling fans, sinks, tubs, toilets, mirrors, countertops, etc; and

•blinds.

All replacements are depreciated over a five to ten-year estimated useful life. We expense as incurred all make-ready maintenance and turnover costs such as cleaning, interior painting of individual apartment units and the repair of any replacement item noted above.

▪Building improvements (outside the apartment unit). These include:

•roof replacement and major repairs;

•paving or major resurfacing of parking lots, curbs and sidewalks;

•amenities and common areas such as pools, exterior sports and playground equipment, lobbies, clubhouses, laundry rooms, alarm and security systems and offices;

•major building mechanical equipment systems;

•interior and exterior structural repair and exterior painting and siding;

•major landscaping and grounds improvement; and

•vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.

All building improvements are depreciated over a five to fifteen-year estimated useful life. We capitalize building improvements and upgrades only if the item: (i) exceeds $2,500 (selected projects must exceed $10,000); (ii) extends the useful life of the asset; and (iii) improves the value of the asset.

60
For the year ended December 31, 2016, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $172.2 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for apartment unit and per apartment unit amounts):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Total Apartment Units – Excludes 945 unconsolidated apartment units for which capital expenditures to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company's results.

(2)Replacements – Includes new expenditures inside the apartment units such as appliances, mechanical equipment, fixtures and flooring, including carpeting. Replacements for same store properties also include $47.0 million spent during 2016 on apartment unit renovations/rehabs (primarily kitchens and baths) on approximately 4,200 same store apartment units (equating to approximately $11,200 per apartment unit rehabbed) designed to reposition these units for higher rental levels in their respective markets. 

(3)Building Improvements – Includes roof replacement, paving, amenities and common areas, building mechanical equipment systems, exterior painting and siding, major landscaping, vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.

(4)Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired or completed that are stabilized prior to January 1, 2015, less properties subsequently sold.

(5)Non-Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired during 2015 and 2016, plus any properties in lease-up and not stabilized as of January 1, 2015. Per apartment unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 5,279 apartment units.

(6)Other – Primarily includes expenditures for properties sold and properties under development.

For the year ended December 31, 2015, our actual improvements to real estate totaled approximately $182.1 million. This includes the following (amounts in thousands except for apartment unit and per apartment unit amounts):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Total Apartment Units – Excludes 1,281 unconsolidated apartment units and 5,139 military housing apartment units for which capital expenditures to real estate are self-funded and do not consolidate into the Company's results.

(2)Replacements – Includes new expenditures inside the apartment units such as appliances, mechanical equipment, fixtures and flooring, including carpeting. Replacements for same store properties also include $60.6 million spent in 2015 on apartment unit renovations/rehabs (primarily kitchens and baths) on 6,499 same store apartment units (equating to about $9,300 per apartment unit rehabbed) designed to reposition these assets for higher rental levels in their respective markets. 

(3)Building Improvements – Includes roof replacement, paving, amenities and common areas, building mechanical equipment systems, exterior painting and siding, major landscaping, vehicles and office and maintenance equipment.

(4)Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired or completed and stabilized prior to January 1, 2014, less properties subsequently sold.

(5)Non-Same Store Properties – Primarily includes all properties acquired during 2014 and 2015, plus any properties in lease-up and not stabilized as of January 1, 2014. Per apartment unit amounts are based on a weighted average of 5,582 apartment units. 

(6)Other – Primarily includes expenditures for properties sold and properties under development.

The Company estimates that during 2017 it will spend approximately $2,600 per apartment unit of capital expenditures, inclusive of apartment unit renovation/rehab costs, or $1,900 per apartment unit excluding apartment unit renovation/rehab costs. During 2017, the Company expects to spend approximately $50.0 million for all unit renovation/rehab costs (primarily on same store properties) at a weighted average cost of $11,000 per apartment unit rehabbed. These anticipated amounts represent an 

61
increase as a percentage of rental revenues, in the cost per unit and in the absolute dollar amounts over 2016. These increases include approximately $17.0 million of additional estimated expenditures for resident focused renovation projects such as common areas and exercise rooms in order to remain competitive with the new luxury supply being delivered in many of our markets. We will continue to create value from our properties by doing those rehabs that meet our investment parameters. The above assumptions are based on current expectations and are forward-looking.

During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company’s total non-real estate capital additions, such as computer software, computer equipment, and furniture and fixtures and leasehold improvements to the Company’s property management offices and its corporate offices, were approximately $5.7 million. The Company expects to fund approximately $3.1 million in total non-real estate capital additions in 2017. These anticipated fundings represent a decrease over 2016, which is primarily driven by the substantial completion of the implementation of new systems during 2016. The above assumption is based on current expectations and is forward-looking.

Capital expenditures to real estate and non-real estate capital additions are generally funded from net cash provided by operating activities and from investment cash flow.

Derivative Instruments

In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to the effect of interest rate changes. The Company seeks to manage these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures including the use of derivatives to hedge interest rate risk on debt instruments. The Company may also use derivatives to manage commodity prices in the daily operations of the business.

The Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors. When viewed in conjunction with the underlying and offsetting exposure that the derivatives are designed to hedge, the Company has not sustained a material loss from these instruments nor does it anticipate any material adverse effect on its net income or financial position in the future from the use of derivatives it currently has in place.

See Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of derivative instruments at December 31, 2016.

Other

Total distributions paid in January 2017 amounted to $192.3 million (excluding distributions on Partially Owned Properties), which included certain distributions declared during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2016.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

The Company has various unconsolidated interests in certain joint ventures. The Company does not believe that these unconsolidated investments have a materially different impact on its liquidity, cash flows, capital resources, credit or market risk than its consolidated operating and/or other activities. 

Operating Properties

The Company has a 75% equity interest in the Wisconsin Place joint venture. The project contains a mixed-use site located in Chevy Chase, Maryland consisting of residential, retail, office and accessory uses, including underground parking facilities. The joint venture owns the 432 unit residential component, but has no ownership interest in the retail and office components. The joint venture also retains an unconsolidated interest in an entity that owns the land underlying the entire project and owns and operates the parking facility. At December 31, 2016, the basis of this investment was $46.9 million. The joint venture, as a limited partner, does not have substantive kick-out or participating rights in the entity. As a result, the entity qualifies as a VIE. The joint venture does not have a controlling financial interest in the VIE and is not the VIE's primary beneficiary. The joint venture does not have the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance or the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. As a result, the entity that owns the land and owns and operates the parking facility is unconsolidated and recorded using the equity method of accounting.

The Company has a 20% equity interest in each of the Nexus Sawgrass and Domain joint ventures. The Nexus Sawgrass joint venture owns a 501 unit apartment property located in Sunrise, Florida and the Company's interest had a basis of $5.0 million at December 31, 2016. The Domain joint venture owns a 444 unit apartment property located in San Jose, California and the 

62
Company's interest had a basis of $9.3 million at December 31, 2016. Nexus Sawgrass and Domain were completed and stabilized during the quarters ended September 30, 2014 and March 31, 2015, respectively. Construction on both properties was predominantly funded with long-term, non-recourse secured loans from the partner. The mortgage loan on Nexus Sawgrass has a current unconsolidated outstanding balance of $48.6 million, bears interest at 5.60% and matures January 1, 2021. The mortgage loan on Domain has a current unconsolidated outstanding balance of $96.8 million, bears interest at 5.75% and matures January 1, 2022. While the Company is the managing member of both of the joint ventures, was responsible for constructing both of the properties and gave certain construction cost overrun guarantees, the joint venture partner has significant participating rights and has active involvement in and oversight of the operations. As a result, the entities do not qualify as VIEs. The Company alone does not have the power to direct the activities of the entities that most significantly impact the entities' economic performance and as a result, the entities are unconsolidated and recorded using the equity method of accounting. The Company currently has no further funding obligations related to these properties.

Other

On February 27, 2013, in connection with the acquisition of Archstone, subsidiaries of the Company entered into three limited liability company agreements (collectively, the “Residual JV”). The Residual JV owned certain Archstone assets and succeeded to certain residual Archstone liabilities/litigation. The Residual JV is owned 60% by the Company and 40% by its joint venture partner. The Company's initial investment was $147.6 million and the Company's basis at December 31, 2016 was a net obligation of $1.1 million. The Residual JV is managed by a Management Committee consisting of two members from each of the Company and its joint venture partner. Both partners have equal participation in the Management Committee and all significant participating rights are shared by both partners. As a result, the Residual JV does not qualify as a VIE. The Company alone does not have the power to direct the activities of the Residual JV that most significantly impact the Residual JV's economic performance and as a result, the Residual JV is unconsolidated and recorded using the equity method of accounting. The Residual JV has sold all of the real estate assets that were acquired as part of the acquisition of Archstone, including all of the German assets, and is in the process of winding down all remaining activities.

On February 27, 2013, in connection with the acquisition of Archstone, a subsidiary of the Company entered into a limited liability company agreement (the “Legacy JV”), through which they assumed obligations of Archstone in the form of preferred interests, some of which are governed by tax protection arrangements. At December 31, 2016, the remaining preferred interests had an aggregate liquidation value of $39.9 million, our share of which is included in other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Obligations of the Legacy JV are borne 60% by the Company and 40% by its joint venture partner. The Legacy JV is managed by a Management Committee consisting of two members from each of the Company and its joint venture partner. Both partners have equal participation in the Management Committee and all significant participating rights are shared by both partners. As a result, the Legacy JV does not qualify as a VIE. The Company alone does not have the power to direct the activities of the Legacy JV that most significantly impact the Legacy JV's economic performance and as a result, the Legacy JV is unconsolidated and recorded using the equity method of accounting.

As of December 31, 2016, the Company has six wholly owned projects totaling 2,064 apartment units in various stages of development with estimated completion dates ranging through December 31, 2018, as well as other completed development projects that are in various stages of lease up or are stabilized. See also Note 16 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company's development projects.

See also Notes 2 and 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s investments in partially owned entities.

The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations for the next five years and thereafter as of December 31, 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

63
(a)Amounts include aggregate principal payments only.

(b)Amounts include interest expected to be incurred on the Company’s secured and unsecured debt based on obligations outstanding at December 31, 2016 and inclusive of capitalized interest. For floating rate debt, the current rate in effect for the most recent payment through December 31, 2016 is assumed to be in effect through the respective maturity date of each instrument.

(c)Minimum basic rent due for various office space the Company leases and fixed base rent due on ground leases for 11 properties.

(d)Estimated payments to the Company's Chairman, Vice Chairman and one former CEO based on actual and planned retirement dates.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions had been different or different assumptions were made, it is possible that different accounting policies would have been applied, resulting in different financial results or different presentation of our financial statements.

The Company’significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies were followed in preparing the consolidated financial statements at and for the year ended December 31, 2016 and are consistent with the year ended December 31, 2015.

The Company has identified five significant accounting policies as critical accounting policies. These critical accounting policies are those that have the most impact on the reporting of our financial condition and those requiring significant judgments and estimates. With respect to these critical accounting policies, management believes that the application of judgments and estimates is consistently applied and produces financial information that fairly presents the results of operations for all periods presented. The five critical accounting policies are:

Acquisition of Investment Properties

The Company allocates the purchase price of properties to net tangible and identified intangible assets acquired based on their fair values. In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company utilizes a number of sources, including independent appraisals that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective property, our own analysis of recently acquired and existing comparable properties in our portfolio and other market data. The Company also considers information obtained about each property as a result of its pre-acquisition due diligence, marketing and leasing activities in estimating the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired.

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

The Company periodically evaluates its long-lived assets, including its investments in real estate, for indicators of impairment. The judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators are based on factors such as operational performance, market conditions and legal and environmental concerns, as well as the Company’s ability to hold and its intent with regard to each asset. Future events could occur which would cause the Company to conclude that impairment indicators exist and an impairment loss is warranted.

Depreciation of Investment in Real Estate

The Company depreciates the building component of its investment in real estate over a 30-year estimated useful life, building improvements over a 5-year to 15-year estimated useful life and both the furniture, fixtures and equipment and replacement components over a 5-year to 10-year estimated useful life, all of which are judgmental determinations.

Cost Capitalization

See the Capitalization of Fixed Assets and Improvements to Real Estate section for a discussion of the Company’s policy with respect to capitalization vs. expensing of fixed asset/repair and maintenance costs. In addition, the Company capitalizes an allocation of the payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend their time on the execution and supervision of major capital and/or renovation projects. These costs are reflected on the balance sheets as increases to depreciable property.

For all development projects, the Company uses its professional judgment in determining whether such costs meet the criteria for capitalization or must be expensed as incurred. The Company capitalizes interest, real estate taxes and insurance and 

64
payroll and associated costs for those individuals directly responsible for and who spend their time on development activities, with capitalization ceasing no later than 90 days following issuance of the certificate of occupancy. These costs are reflected on the balance sheets as construction-in-progress for each specific property. The Company expenses as incurred all payroll costs of on-site employees working directly at our properties, except as noted above on our development properties prior to certificate of occupancy issuance and on specific major renovations at selected properties when additional incremental employees are hired.

During the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, the Company capitalized $18.7 million, $22.3 million and $22.4 million, respectively, of payroll and associated costs of employees directly responsible for and who spend their time on the execution and supervision of development activities as well as major capital and/or renovation projects.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments, Including Derivative Instruments

The valuation of financial instruments requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the fair value of the instruments. The Company, where possible, bases the fair values of its financial instruments, including its derivative instruments, on listed market prices and third party quotes. Where these are not available, the Company bases its estimates on current instruments with similar terms and maturities or on other factors relevant to the financial instruments.

Funds From Operations and Normalized Funds From Operations

The following is the Company's and the Operating Partnership's reconciliation of net income to FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units for each of the five years ended December 31, 2016:

65
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines funds from operations (“FFO”) (April 2002 White Paper) as net income (computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”)), excluding gains (or losses) from sales and impairment write-downs of depreciable operating properties, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis. The April 2002 White Paper states that gain or loss on sales of property is excluded from FFO for previously depreciated operating properties only.

(2)Normalized funds from operations (“Normalized FFO”) begins with FFO and excludes:

•the impact of any expenses relating to non-operating asset impairment and valuation allowances;

•property acquisition and other transaction costs related to mergers and acquisitions and pursuit cost write-offs;

•gains and losses from early debt extinguishment, including prepayment penalties, preferred share/preference unit redemptions and the cost related to the implied option value of non-cash convertible debt discounts;

•gains and losses on the sales of non-operating assets, including gains and losses from land parcel sales, net of the effect of income tax benefits or expenses; and

•other miscellaneous items.

66
(3)The Company believes that FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company, because they are recognized measures of performance by the real estate industry and by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of depreciable property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO and FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units can help compare the operating performance of a company’s real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. The Company also believes that Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are helpful to investors as supplemental measures of the operating performance of a real estate company because they allow investors to compare the Company’s operating performance to its performance in prior reporting periods and to the operating performance of other real estate companies without the effect of items that by their nature are not comparable from period to period and tend to obscure the Company’s actual operating results. FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units do not represent net income, net income available to Common Shares / Units or net cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP. Therefore, FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units should not be exclusively considered as alternatives to net income, net income available to Common Shares / Units or net cash flows from operating activities as determined by GAAP or as a measure of liquidity. The Company’s calculation of FFO, FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units, Normalized FFO and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units may differ from other real estate companies due to, among other items, variations in cost capitalization policies for capital expenditures and, accordingly, may not be comparable to such other real estate companies.

(4)FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units and Normalized FFO available to Common Shares and Units / Units are calculated on a basis consistent with net income available to Common Shares / Units and reflects adjustments to net income for preferred distributions and premiums on redemption of preferred shares/preference units in accordance with GAAP. The equity positions of various individuals and entities that contributed their properties to the Operating Partnership in exchange for OP Units are collectively referred to as the “Noncontrolling Interests – Operating Partnership”. Subject to certain restrictions, the Noncontrolling Interests – Operating Partnership may exchange their OP Units for Common Shares on a one-for-one basis.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk