Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Business Overview 

 Foot Locker, Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates in two reportable segments — Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers. The Athletic Stores segment is one of the largest athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the world, whose formats include Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Champs Sports, and Footaction. The Direct-to-Customers segment reflects Footlocker.com, Inc., which sells, through its affiliates, including Eastbay, Inc., to customers through catalogs and Internet websites. 

 The Foot Locker brand is one of the most widely recognized names in the market segments in which the Company operates, epitomizing high quality for the active lifestyle customer. This brand equity has aided the Company’s ability to successfully develop and increase its portfolio of complementary retail store formats, specifically Lady Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker, as well as Footlocker.com, Inc., its direct-to-customers business. Through various marketing channels, including television campaigns and sponsorships of various sporting events, Foot Locker, Inc. reinforces its image with a consistent message; namely, that it is the destination store for athletic footwear and apparel with a wide selection of merchandise in a full-service environment. 

Athletic Stores 

 The Company operates 3,785 stores in the Athletic Stores segment. The following is a brief description of the Athletic Stores segment’s operating businesses: 

 Foot Locker — Foot Locker is a leading athletic footwear and apparel retailer. Its stores offer the latest in athletic-inspired performance products, manufactured primarily by the leading athletic brands. Foot Locker offers products for a wide variety of activities including running, basketball, hiking, tennis, aerobics, fitness, baseball, football, and soccer. Its 2,006 stores are located in 21 countries including 1,275 in the United States, Puerto Rico, and Guam, 130 in Canada, 509 in Europe and a combined 92 in Australia and New Zealand. The domestic stores have an average of 2,500 selling square feet and the international stores have an average of 1,500 selling square feet. 

 Champs Sports — Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the United States. Its product categories include athletic footwear, apparel and accessories, and a focused assortment of equipment. This combination allows Champs Sports to differentiate itself from other mall-based stores by presenting complete product assortments in a select number of sporting activities. Its 576 stores are located throughout the United States, Canada, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,700 selling square feet. 

 Footaction — Footaction is a national athletic footwear and apparel retailer. The primary customers are young urban males that seek street-inspired fashion styles. Its 356 stores are located throughout the United States and Puerto Rico and focus on marquee allocated footwear and branded apparel. The Footaction stores have an average of 2,900 selling square feet. 

 Lady Foot Locker — Lady Foot Locker is a leading U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for women. Its stores carry major athletic footwear and apparel brands, as well as casual wear and an assortment of proprietary merchandise designed for a variety of activities, including running, basketball, walking, and fitness. Its 526 stores are located in the United States and Puerto Rico, and have an average of 1,300 selling square feet. 

 Kids Foot Locker — Kids Foot Locker is a national children’s athletic retailer that offers the largest selection of brand-name athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for children. Its stores feature an environment geared to appeal to both parents and children. Its 321 stores are located in the United States and Puerto Rico and have an average of 1,400 selling square feet. 

8 

Store Profile 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Direct-to-Customers 

 Footlocker.com — Footlocker.com, Inc., sells, through its affiliates, directly to customers through catalogs and its Internet websites. Eastbay, Inc., one of its affiliates, is one of the largest direct marketers of athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, team licensed and private-label merchandise in the United States and provides the Company’s eight full-service e-commerce sites access to an integrated fulfillment and distribution system. The Company has a strategic alliance to offer footwear and apparel on the Amazon.com website and the Foot Locker brands are featured in the Amazon.com specialty stores for apparel and accessories and sporting goods. In addition, the Company has a marketing agreement with the U.S. Olympic Committee (USOC) providing the Company with the exclusive rights to sell USOC licensed products through catalogs and via an e-commerce site. The Company has an agreement with ESPN for ESPN Shop — an ESPN-branded direct mail catalog and e-commerce site linked to www.ESPNshop.com, where consumers can purchase athletic footwear, apparel and equipment which will be managed by Footlocker.com. Both the catalog and the e-commerce site feature a variety of ESPN-branded and non-ESPN-branded athletically inspired merchandise. 

Franchise Operations 

 In March of 2006, the Company entered into a ten-year area development agreement with the Alshaya Trading Co. W.L.L., in which the Company agreed to enter into separate license agreements for the operation of a minimum of 75 Foot Locker stores, subject to certain restrictions, located within the Middle East. Additionally in March 2007, the Company entered into a ten-year agreement with another third party for the exclusive right to open and operate up to 33 Foot Locker stores in the Republic of South Korea. A total of 10 franchised stores were operational at February 2, 2008. Revenue from the 10 franchised stores was not significant for the year-ended February 2, 2008. These stores are not included in the Company’s operating store count above. 

Overview of Consolidated Results 

 The 2007 results represent the 52 weeks ended February 2, 2008 as compared with the prior year which represented the 53 weeks ended February 3, 2007. Income from continuing operations was $49 million or $0.32 per diluted share as compared with the corresponding prior-year period of $247 million or $1.58 per diluted share. Difficult industry trends as well as internal factors affected the 2007 results. Sales of low-profile and casual footwear significantly declined and sales of branded and licensed apparel were weak. Internal factors contributing to the decline included oversupplied inventory, due, in part, to the lack of a clear fashion trend in athletic footwear and apparel, which necessitated higher than normal markdowns. 

 The following key factors affected the Company’s results in the current year and comparability with the prior year:  Comparable-store sales declined 6.3 percent.

  Gross margin was negatively affected by higher markdowns primarily to liquidate slow-moving merchandise and lower vendor allowances.

  Included in 2007 were charges associated with the Company’s store closing program and non-cash impairment charges totaling $128 million, pre-tax, or $0.52 per diluted share. Impairment charges totaling $124 million were recorded to write-down the value of long-lived assets of underperforming stores in the Company’s U.S. retail store operations and for stores included in the store closing program. The Company closed 33 unproductive stores during 2007 as part of the announced store closing program. Included in 2006 was an impairment charge of $17 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, to write-down long-lived assets of the European operations. 

9 

   Included in 2007 was a Canadian income tax valuation allowance adjustment that increased net income by $65 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.

  The 53rd week of 2006 represented $95 million in sales and net income of $18 million, or $0.11 per diluted share. 

 Despite the difficult year experienced, the Company ended the year in a strong financial position. Key highlights of the year included:  Cash and cash equivalents as of February 2, 2008 were $488 million, reflecting cash flow provided by operations of $283 million.

  Merchandise inventories were reduced by approximately 4 percent, excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations.

  Repaid $2 million of its 5-year term loan, in advance of the regularly scheduled payment date of May 2008.

  Purchased and retired $5 million of the $200 million 8.50 percent debentures payable in 2022, bringing the outstanding amount to $129 million as of February 2, 2008.

  Dividends totaling $77 million were declared and paid.

  $50 million of common stock was repurchased. 

 The following table represents a summary of sales and operating results, reconciled to (loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________

 (1)   During the first quarter of 2007, the Company launched a new family footwear concept, Footquarters. The concept’s results did not meet the Company’s expectations and, therefore, the Company decided not to further invest in this business. These stores were converted to the Company’s other formats. Included in the operating loss of $6 million, was approximately $2 million of costs associated with the removal of signage and the write-off of unusable fixtures. 

 (2)  During 2007, the Company adjusted its 1993 Repositioning and 1991 Restructuring reserve by $2 million primarily due to favorable lease terminations. During 2006, the Company recorded a restructuring charge of $1 million, which represented a revision to the original estimate of the lease liability associated with the guarantee of The San Francisco Music Box Company distribution center. These amounts are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

 On March 11, 2008, we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, which included a press release announcing our fourth quarter and full year 2007 financial results. In completing our final analysis, we determined that our income tax benefit was overstated by $2 million. While not material to understanding fourth quarter and full year 2007 financial results contained in the March 10, 2008, press release, the amount disclosed above has been recorded in our actual results for the fourth quarter and full year 2007. We believe noting this change is beneficial to understanding the actual results for the fourth quarter and full year 2007 contained in this financial report. Accordingly, the full year 2007 income tax benefit was reduced from $101 million reported in the press release to a benefit of $99 million. Diluted earnings per share for the full year 2007 was changed from $0.34 to $0.33. 

10 

Sales 

 All references to comparable-store sales for a given period relate to sales from stores that are open at the period-end, that have been open for more than one year, and exclude the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. Accordingly, stores opened and closed during the period are not included. Sales from the Direct-to-Customer segment are included in the calculation of comparable-store sales for all periods presented. Sales from acquired businesses that include the purchase of inventory are included in the computation of comparable-store sales after 15 months of operations. Accordingly, Footaction sales have been included in the computation of comparable-store sales since August 2005. 

 Sales decreased to $5,437 million, or by 5.4 percent as compared with 2006. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales declined 7.6 percent as compared with 2006. Comparable-store sales decreased by 6.3 percent. 

 Sales of $5,750 million in 2006 increased by 1.7 percent from sales of $5,653 million in 2005. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations and the 53rd week, sales declined 0.7 percent as compared with 2005. Comparable-store sales decreased by 1.2 percent, which was primarily a result of the decline in the European operations. 

Gross Margin 

 Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 26.1 percent in 2007 declining 410 basis points as compared with 2006. Gross margin, as a percentage of sales, was negatively affected by incremental markdowns of 180 basis points taken to liquidate slow-moving and excess inventory and the effect of reduced vendor allowances negatively affected gross margin by approximately 60 basis points, as compared with 2006. Lower sales resulted in the occupancy rate increasing by 160 basis points, as a percentage of sales, as compared with the prior-year period.  

 Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 30.2 percent in 2006; excluding the effect of the 53rd week, gross margin would have declined 20 basis points as compared with 2005. This reflected increased promotional activity, offset, in part, by the effect of increased vendor allowances. The effect of these vendor allowances was an improvement in gross margin in 2006, as a percentage of sales, of 20 basis points as compared with 2005. Additionally, gross margin was negatively affected by lower sales, which resulted in increased occupancy costs, as a percentage of sales.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

 Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased by $13 million to $1,176 million in 2007, or by 1.1 percent, as compared with 2006. SG&A as a percentage of sales increased to 21.6 percent as compared with 20.2 percent in 2006. The increase in SG&A as a percentage of sales is due to the decline in sales. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations and the 53rd week in 2006, SG&A decreased by $2 million. This decrease primarily reflected savings associated with operating fewer stores, as well as controlling variable expenses as compared with the prior-year period. 

 SG&A increased by $34 million to $1,163 million in 2006, or by 3.0 percent, as compared with 2005. SG&A as a percentage of sales increased to 20.2 percent, as compared with 20.0 percent in 2005. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations and the 53rd week, SG&A would have increased by 1.4 percent. This increase was primarily the result of incremental share-based compensation included in corporate expense, associated with the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) of $6 million. Additionally, the net benefit cost for the Company’s pension and postretirement plans reflected a reduction of $5 million, primarily as a result of additional contributions and improved pension fund asset performance. 

Corporate Expense 

 Corporate expense consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses as well as depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s corporate headquarters, centrally managed departments, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and other items. 

 Corporate expense decreased by $9 million to $59 million in 2007 as compared with 2006. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense amounted to $14 million in 2007 and $22 million in 2006, the decrease reflecting certain software assets which were fully depreciated. Excluding the change in corporate expense related to depreciation and amortization, corporate expense declined primarily due to reduced incentive compensation expense. 

11 

 The increase in corporate expense in 2006 as compared with 2005 of $10 million reflects the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) that resulted in incremental compensation expense of $6 million and a charge of $4 million for anticipated settlements of certain legal matters. The effect of the 53rd week on corporate expense was not significant. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense amounted to $22 million in 2006 and $24 million in 2005. 

Depreciation and Amortization 

 Depreciation and amortization of $166 million decreased by 5.1 percent in 2007 from $175 million in 2006. This decrease primarily reflects reduced software amortization of $8 million as assets became fully depreciated and reduced depreciation and amortization associated with the third quarter impairment charge of $8 million. These decreases were offset, in part, by the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, which increased depreciation and amortization expense by $3 million, and increased depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s capital spending. 

 Depreciation and amortization of $175 million increased by 2.3 percent in 2006 from $171 million in 2005. This increase primarily reflected additional depreciation and amortization for the Athletic Stores segment due to capital spending and the effect of foreign currency fluctuations of approximately $1 million. 

Interest Expense, Net 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 Interest expense of $21 million decreased by 8.7 percent in 2007 compared to $23 million in 2006. The reduction in interest expense primarily relates to the purchases and retirements of $5 million and $38 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, of the Company’s 8.50 percent debentures. Interest rate swap agreements did not significantly affect interest expense in 2007. 

 Interest income of $20 million remained unchanged from 2006. Interest income is generated through the investment of cash equivalents, short-term investments, the accretion of the Northern Group note to its face value and accrual of interest on the outstanding principal, as well as the effect of the Company’s cross currency swaps. Interest income related to cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was $16 million in 2007 and $14 million in 2006. Interest income on the Northern Group note amounted to $2 million in both 2007 and 2006. The cross currency swaps income totaled $1 million in 2007 as compared with $3 million in 2006. 

 Interest expense of $23 million in 2006 remained unchanged from 2005. Interest rate swap agreements did not significantly affect interest expense in 2006. 

 The increase in interest income of $7 million in 2006 as compared with 2005 was primarily related to increased interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. Interest income related to cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was $14 million in 2006 and $11 million in 2005. Interest income on the Northern Group note amounted to $2 million in both 2006 and 2005. Also included in interest income is the effect of the Company’s cross currency swaps, which totaled $3 million in 2006 and was not significant in 2005. 

12 

Other Income 

 In 2007, other income included a $1 million gain related to a final settlement with the Company’s insurance carriers of a claim related to a store damaged by a fire in 2006. Additionally, the Company sold two of its lease interests in Europe for a gain of $1 million. These gains were offset primarily by premiums paid for foreign currency option contracts. The 2006 amounts included a net gain of $4 million from the termination of two of the Company’s leases for approximately $5 million and insurance claims related to Hurricane Katrina that resulted in a gain of $8 million, which represented amounts in excess of losses. Also during 2006, the Company purchased and retired $38 million of long-term debt at a discount from face value of $2 million. 

Income Taxes 

 The effective tax rate for 2007 was a benefit of 198.0 percent as compared with an expense of 36.9 percent in the prior year. The change in the rate is primarily due to the $65 million valuation allowance adjustment (net of deferred costs) relating to Canadian tax depreciation and tax loss carryforwards, the change in the mix of U.S. and international profits, and the impairment charges relating to the Company’s U.S. operations. 

 The effective tax rate for 2006 was 36.9 percent as compared with 35.0 percent in the prior year. The increase in the rate is primarily due to the change in the mix of U.S. and international profits and the $17 million impairment charge relating to the Company’s European operations, as well as a $6 million valuation allowance adjustment recorded in 2005. 

Segment Information 

 The Company evaluates performance based on several factors, the primary financial measure of which is division profit. Division profit (loss) reflects income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, corporate expense, non-operating income, and net interest expense. 

Athletic Stores 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2007 compared with 2006 

 Athletic Stores sales of $5,071 million decreased 5.6 percent in 2007, as compared with $5,370 million in 2006. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, sales from athletic store formats decreased by 7.8 percent in 2007. The decline in sales for the year ended February 2, 2008 was primarily related to the domestic operations. Sales in the U.S. were negatively affected by a continuing weakening in consumer spending, unseasonable warmer weather, and a lack of clear fashion trend in athletic footwear and apparel. Internationally, comparable-store sales declined mid-single digits. In Europe, sales of low-profile footwear styles declined, while the sales trend of higher priced technical footwear was higher than the prior year. Comparable-store sales for the Athletic Stores segment decreased by 6.6 percent in 2007. 

 Athletic Stores reported a loss of $27 million in 2007 as compared with a profit of $405 million in 2006. The decrease in division profit was attributable to the U.S operations. The decline in the U.S. operations was offset, in part, by increases in most international formats. Included in the Athletic Stores division results for 2007 are non-cash impairment charges of $117 million to write-down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements for 1,395 stores at the Company’s U.S. store operations pursuant to SFAS No. 144, consistent with the Company’s recoverability of long-lived assets policy. Additionally, in 2007, the Company identified unproductive stores for closure; accordingly, 

13 

the Company evaluated the recoverability of long-lived assets considering the revised estimated future cash flows. The Company recorded an additional non-cash impairment charge of $7 million as a result of this analysis. Exit costs related to 33 stores that closed during 2007, comprising primarily lease termination costs of $4 million, were recognized in accordance with SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.” 

2006 compared with 2005 

 Athletic Stores sales of $5,370 million increased 1.9 percent in 2006, as compared with $5,272 million in 2005. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, and the effect of the 53rd week, sales from athletic store formats decreased by 0.6 percent in 2006. Footaction and Champs Sports significantly increased sales, primarily from the sale of marquee basketball and running footwear. This was offset primarily by decreased sales in Foot Locker Europe. Foot Locker Europe’s sales declined due to the continued difficult athletic retail environment, particularly in France, the U.K. and Italy. Comparable-store sales for the Athletic Stores segment decreased by 1.1 percent in 2006. 

 Division profit from Athletic Stores decreased by 3.3 percent to $405 million in 2006 from $419 million in 2005. Division profit as a percentage of sales decreased to 7.5 percent. The decrease in division profit is primarily attributable to the Foot Locker Europe division due to the fashion shift from higher priced marquee footwear to lower priced low-profile footwear styles and a highly competitive retail environment, particularly for the sale of low-profile footwear styles. Included in the Athletic Stores division profit for 2006 is an impairment charge of $17 million related to the Company’s European operations, consistent with the Company’s recoverability of long-lived assets policy. The charge was comprised primarily of stores located in the U.K. and France. Excluding the impairment charge, Athletic Stores division profit increased by 0.7 percent as compared with the corresponding prior-year period. The decline in Foot Locker Europe were offset by increases in all other divisions. 

Direct-to-Customers 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2007 compared with 2006 

 Direct-to-Customers sales decreased 4.2 percent to $364 million in 2007, as compared with $380 million in 2006. Internet sales increased by 6.3 percent to $287 million, as compared with 2006. Catalog sales decreased by 30.0 percent to $77 million in 2007 from $110 million in 2006. Management believes that the decrease in catalog sales, which was substantially offset by the increase in Internet sales, is a result of customers browsing and selecting products through its catalogs and then making their purchases via the Internet. Sales were negatively affected by reduced sales from third party arrangements, as well as weakened consumer spending for athletic footwear and apparel. 

 The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $40 million in 2007, as compared with $45 million in 2006. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, decreased to 11.0 percent in 2007 from 11.8 percent in 2006. The decline in division profit is a result of lower sales. 

2006 compared with 2005 

 Direct-to-Customers sales decreased to $380 million in 2006, as compared with $381 million in 2005. Internet sales increased to $270 million, increasing by 11.1 percent as compared with 2005. Catalog sales decreased by 20.3 percent to $110 million in 2006 from $138 million in 2005. Management believes that the decrease in catalog sales, which was substantially offset by the increase in Internet sales, is a result of customers browsing and selecting products through its catalogs and then making their purchases via the Internet. Sales for the Direct-to-Customer business were negatively affected by the termination of a third party arrangement in the early part of 2006. 

14 

 The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $45 million in 2006, as compared with $48 million in 2005. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, decreased to 11.8 percent in 2006 from 12.6 percent in 2005. Several initiatives were implemented to mitigate the loss of revenue from the cancelled third party contract, such as expanding the ESPN offerings. However, these initiatives did not fully offset the loss in profit which resulted in a decline in division profit. The effect of the 53rd week on this segment was not significant. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Liquidity 

 Generally, the Company’s primary source of cash has been from operations. The Company generally finances real estate with operating leases. The principal uses of cash have been to finance inventory requirements, capital expenditures related to store openings, store remodelings, and management information systems and other support facilities, and to fund general working capital requirements. 

 Management believes its cash, cash equivalents and future operating cash flow from operations will be adequate to fund its working capital requirements, capital expenditures, pension contributions for the Company’s retirement plans, anticipated quarterly dividend payments, scheduled debt repayments, potential share repurchases, and other cash requirements to support the development of its short-term and long-term operating strategies.  

 Maintaining access to merchandise that the Company considers appropriate for its business may be subject to the policies and practices of its key vendors. Therefore, the Company believes that it is critical to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with its key vendors. The Company purchased approximately 77 percent in 2007 and 78 percent in 2006 of its merchandise from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. Approximately 56 percent in 2007 and 50 percent in 2006 was purchased from one vendor — Nike, Inc. 

 Planned capital expenditures for 2008 are approximately $158 million, of which $135 million relates to modernizations of existing stores and new store openings, and $23 million reflects the development of information systems and other support facilities. Additionally, the Company intends to spend an additional $2 million on key money related to Europe. The Company has the ability to revise and reschedule the anticipated capital expenditure program, should the Company’s financial position require it. 

 Any materially adverse change in customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces or customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, the Company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a significant portion of its merchandise purchases, and risks associated with foreign global sourcing or economic conditions worldwide could affect the ability of the Company to continue to fund its needs from business operations. 

Cash Flow 

 Operating activities from continuing operations provided cash of $283 million in 2007 as compared with $189 million in 2006. These amounts reflect income from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes. During 2007, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges and store closing program costs of $124 million related to its domestic operations. Merchandise inventories represented a $55 million source of cash in 2007 as inventory purchases were reduced to keep inventory levels in line with sales. Additionally, the Company did not contribute to its pension plans in 2007, as no contributions were required, compared with $68 million contributed in 2006. 

 Operating activities from continuing operations provided cash of $189 million in 2006 as compared with $349 million in 2005. These amounts reflect income from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes. During 2006, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $17 million related to the operations in Europe. The decline in operating cash flows of $160 million is primarily due to a reduction of accounts payable at year-end reflecting an acceleration of inventory receipts earlier in the fourth quarter of 2006. In addition, due to the calendar shift related to the 53rd week, approximately $47 million of the decline represents the timing of lease payments. Additionally, the Company contributed $68 million to its U.S. and Canadian qualified pension plans in 2006, as compared with contributions of $26 million in 2005. 

15 

 Net cash provided by investing activities of the Company’s continuing operations was $117 million in 2007 as compared with $108 million used in investing activities in 2006. During 2007, the Company liquidated most of its short-term investments, which represented auction rate securities, due to issues in the global credit and capital markets. Capital expenditures of $148 million in 2007 and $165 million in 2006 primarily related to store remodeling and new stores. During 2007, the Company received $21 million representing the maturity of an investment of $14 million and the repayment of a note of $7 million.  

 Net cash used in investing activities of the Company’s continuing operations was $108 million in 2006 as compared with $182 million in 2005. The Company’s purchase of short-term investments, net of sales, decreased by $49 million in 2006 as compared with an increase of $31 million in 2005. Capital expenditures of $165 million in 2006 and $155 million in 2005 primarily related to store remodeling and new stores. During 2006, the Company received net proceeds of $4 million as a result a lease termination. The Company also received $4 million of insurance proceeds from its insurance carriers related to the final settlement of the property and equipment claims for the 2005 hurricanes. 

 Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations was $138 million in 2007 as compared with $142 million in 2006. During 2007, the Company repaid $2 million of its term loan, purchased and retired $5 million of its 8.50 percent debentures payable in 2022, and repaid and retired its $14 million Industrial Revenue Bond which was accounted for as capital lease. As required by SFAS No. 123(R), the Company recorded an excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation of $1 million as a financing activity. The Company declared and paid dividends totaling $77 million in 2007 and $61 million in 2006. During 2007 and 2006, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $9 million and $12 million, respectively. During 2007, the Company purchased 2,283,254 shares of its common stock for approximately $50 million. On February 20, 2008, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.15 per share, which will be payable on May 2, 2008 to shareholders of record on April 18, 2008. This dividend represents a 20 percent increase over the previous quarterly per share amount and is equivalent to an annualized rate of $0.60 per share. 

 Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations was $142 million in 2006 as compared with $105 million in 2005. During 2006, the Company repaid $50 million of its term loan and purchased and retired $38 million of its 8.50 percent debentures payable in 2022 at a $2 million discount from face value. The Company recorded an excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation of $2 million as a financing activity. The Company declared and paid dividends totaling $61 million in 2006 and $49 million in 2005. During 2006 and 2005, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $12 million and $14 million, respectively. During 2006, the Company purchased 334,200 shares of its common stock for approximately $8 million. 

Capital Structure 

 During 2004, the Company obtained a 5-year, $175 million term loan to finance a portion of the purchase price of the Footaction stores. The Company has repaid $87 million of the term loan, in advance of the scheduled repayment dates, thereby reducing the term loan to $88 million as of February 2, 2008. 

 In October 2007, the Company amended its revolving credit agreement to provide for a one-year extension of the revolving credit facility to May 19, 2010 and a reduction in the fixed charge coverage ratio to no less than 1.25:1 for the fourth quarter of 2007 and the first quarter of 2008, increasing to 2.0:1 by the first quarter of 2010. The amendment also permits the payment of dividends by the Company of up to $90 million in 2008 and up to $100 million for each year thereafter. On February 19, 2008, the Company further amended its revolving credit facility to increase the amount permitted to be paid as dividends in 2008 to $95 million. With regard to stock repurchases, the amendment provides that not more than $50 million in the aggregate may be expended after October 26, 2007 unless the fixed charge coverage ratio is at least 2.0:1 for the quarter immediately preceding any such repurchase and the Company has delivered its annual audited financial statements with respect to 2007. The agreement includes various restrictive financial covenants with which the Company was in compliance on February 2, 2008.  

 During 2006, the Company purchased and retired $38 million of the $200 million 8.50 percent debentures payable in 2022 at a $2 million discount from face value. During 2007, the Company purchased and retired $5 million of the $200 million 8.50 percent debentures payable in 2022 bringing the outstanding amount (excluding the fair value of the interest rate swap) to $129 million as of February 2, 2008. 

16 

Credit Rating 

 As of March 31, 2008, the Company’s corporate credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are BB and Ba3, respectively. Additionally, as of March 31, 2008, Moody’s Investor Services has rated the Company’s senior unsecured notes B1. 

Debt Capitalization and Equity 

 For purposes of calculating debt to total capitalization, the Company includes the present value of operating lease commitments in total net debt. Total net debt including the present value of operating leases is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 4 percent to 13 percent, which represent the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the inclusion of the present value of operating lease in total debt is useful to our investors, credit constituencies, and rating agencies. The following table sets forth the components of the Company’s capitalization, both with and without the present value of operating leases: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 The Company reduced debt and capital lease obligations by $13 million, and increased cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments by $23 million during 2007. Additionally, the present value of the operating leases increased by $57 million representing the net change of lease renewals and the effect of foreign currency fluctuations primarily related to the euro. Including the present value of operating leases, the Company’s net debt capitalization percent increased 50 basis points in 2007. The decrease in shareholders’ equity of $24 million in 2007 relates to the following: net income of $51 million in 2007, $77 million in dividends paid, $21 million related to stock plans, and an increase of $60 million in the foreign exchange currency translation adjustment, primarily related to the value of the euro in relation to the U.S. dollar. Additionally, the Company repurchased 2,283,254 shares of common stock for approximately $50 million during the year. As required by SFAS No. 158, during 2007 the Company recognized, within accumulated other comprehensive loss, amortization of prior service costs and net actuarial gains and losses, as well as an additional charge representing the change in the funded status of the pension plans which totaled $29 million, after-tax. 

17 

Contractual Obligations and Commitments 

 The following tables represent the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments as of February 2, 2008: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________

 (1)   The amounts presented above represent the contractual maturities of the Company’s long-term debt, excluding interest. Additional information is included in the “Long-Term Debt and Obligations under Capital Leases” footnote under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

 (2)  The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Company’s leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance, and other costs. These costs have historically represented approximately 25 to 30 percent of the minimum rent amount. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are unknown. 

 (3)  The Company’s other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of February 2, 2008 primarily comprise pension and postretirement benefits, deferred rent liability, income taxes, workers’ compensation and general liability reserves and various other accruals. These liabilities have been excluded from the above table as the timing and/or amount of any cash payment is uncertain. The timing of the remaining amounts that are known have not been included as they are minimal and not useful to the presentation. Additional information is included in the “Other Liabilities” footnote under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________

 (4)   Represents open purchase orders, as well as minimum required purchases under merchandise contractual agreements, at February 2, 2008. The Company is obligated under the terms of purchase orders; however, the Company is generally able to renegotiate the timing and quantity of these orders with certain vendors in response to shifts in consumer preferences. 

 (5)  Represents payments required by non-merchandise purchase agreements and minimum royalty requirements. 

 The Company does not have any off-balance sheet financing, other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business as disclosed above, or unconsolidated special purpose entities. The Company does not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities. The Company’s policy prohibits the use of derivatives for which there is no underlying exposure. 

 In connection with the sale of various businesses and assets, the Company may be obligated for certain lease commitments transferred to third parties and pursuant to certain normal representations, warranties, or indemnifications entered into with the purchasers of such businesses or assets. Although the maximum potential amounts for such obligations cannot be readily determined, management believes that the resolution of such contingencies will not significantly affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. The Company is also operating certain stores for which lease agreements are in the process of being negotiated with landlords. Although there is no contractual commitment to make these payments, it is likely that leases will be executed. 

18 

Critical Accounting Policies 

 Management’s responsibility for integrity and objectivity in the preparation and presentation of the Company’s financial statements requires diligent application of appropriate accounting policies. Generally, the Company’s accounting policies and methods are those specifically required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Included in the “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” footnote in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” is a summary of the Company’s most significant accounting policies. In some cases, management is required to calculate amounts based on estimates for matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company believes the following to be the most critical of those accounting policies that necessitate subjective judgments. 

Merchandise Inventories 

 Merchandise inventories for the Company’s Athletic Stores are valued at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method. The retail inventory method (“RIM”) is commonly used by retail companies to value inventories at cost and calculate gross margins due to its practicality. Under the retail method, cost is determined by applying a cost-to-retail percentage across groupings of similar items, known as departments. The cost-to-retail percentage is applied to ending inventory at its current owned retail valuation to determine the cost of ending inventory on a department basis. The RIM is a system of averages that requires management’s estimates and assumptions regarding markups, markdowns and shrink, among others, and as such, could result in distortions of inventory amounts. Significant judgment is required for these estimates and assumptions, as well as to differentiate between promotional and other markdowns that may be required to correctly reflect merchandise inventories at the lower of cost or market. The Company provides reserves based on current selling prices when the inventory has not been marked down to market. The failure to take permanent markdowns on a timely basis may result in an overstatement of cost under the retail inventory method. The decision to take permanent markdowns includes many factors, including the current environment, inventory levels and the age of the item. Management believes this method and its related assumptions, which have been consistently applied, to be reasonable. 

Vendor Reimbursements 

 In the normal course of business, the Company receives allowances from its vendors for markdowns taken. Vendor allowances are recognized as a reduction in cost of sales in the period in which the markdowns are taken. The effect of vendor allowances negatively effected gross margin in 2007, as a percentage of sales, of 60 basis points as compared with 2006. The Company also has volume-related agreements with certain vendors, under which it receives rebates based on fixed percentages of cost purchases. These volume-related rebates are recorded in cost of sales when the product is sold and they contributed 10 basis points to the 2007 gross margin rate. 

 The Company receives support from some of its vendors in the form of reimbursements for cooperative advertising and catalog costs for the launch and promotion of certain products. The reimbursements are agreed upon with vendors for specific advertising campaigns and catalogs. Cooperative income, to the extent that it reimburses specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to date, is recorded in SG&A in the same period as the associated expenses are incurred. Reimbursements received that are in excess of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to date are recognized as a reduction to the cost of merchandise and are reflected in cost of sales as the merchandise is sold. Cooperative reimbursements amounted to approximately 33 percent of total advertising costs in 2007 and approximately 11 percent of catalog costs in 2007. 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 

 In accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS No. 144”), the Company recognizes an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, a triggering event, comprises measurable operating performance criteria at the division level as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis is necessitated by the occurrence of a triggering event, the Company uses assumptions, which are predominately identified from the Company’s three-year strategic plans, in determining the impairment amount. The calculation of fair value of long-lived assets is based on estimated expected discounted  

19 

future cash flows by store, which is generally measured by discounting the expected future cash flows at the Company’s weighted-average cost of capital. Management believes its policy is reasonable and is consistently applied. Future expected cash flows are based upon estimates that, if not achieved, may result in significantly different results. 

 During 2007, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges totaling $124 million primarily to write-down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements for the Company’s U.S. store operations pursuant to SFAS No. 144. 

 The Company is required to perform an impairment review of its goodwill at least annually. The Company has chosen to perform this review at the beginning of each fiscal year, and it is done in a two-step approach. The initial step requires that the carrying value of each reporting unit be compared with its estimated fair value. The second step — to evaluate goodwill of a reporting unit for impairment — is only required if the carrying value of that reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. 

 The fair value of each of the Company’s reporting units exceeded its carrying value as of the beginning of the year. The Company used a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The latter requires judgment and uses one or more methods to compare the reporting unit with similar businesses, business ownership interests or securities that have been sold.  

 During the third and fourth quarters of 2007, the Company performed reviews of its U.S. Athletic stores’ goodwill, as a result of the SFAS No. 144 recoverability analysis. These analyses did not result in an impairment charge. 

Share-Based Compensation 

 The Company estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Company estimates the expected term of options granted using its historical exercise and post-vesting employment termination patterns, which the Company believes are representative of future behavior. Changing the expected term by one year changes the fair value by 10 to 15 percent depending if the change was an increase or decrease to the expected term. The Company estimates the expected volatility of its common stock at the grant date using a weighted-average of the Company’s historical volatility and implied volatility from traded options on the Company’s common stock. A 50 basis point change in volatility would have a 1 percent change to the fair value. The risk-free interest rate assumption is determined using the Federal Reserve nominal rates for U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds with maturities similar to those of the expected term of the award being valued. The expected dividend yield is derived from the Company’s historical experience. A 50 basis point change to the dividend yield would change the fair value by approximately 5 percent. The Company records stock-based compensation expense only for those awards expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate based on its historical pre-vesting forfeiture data, which it believes are representative of future behavior, and periodically will revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. 

 The Black-Scholes option valuation model requires the use of subjective assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value of the options. The Company may elect to use different assumptions under the Black-Scholes option pricing model in the future if there is a difference between the assumptions used in determining stock-based compensation cost and the actual factors that become known over time. 

Pension and Postretirement Liabilities 

 The Company determines its obligations for pension and postretirement liabilities based upon assumptions related to discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on invested plan assets, salary increases, age, and mortality among others. Management reviews all assumptions annually with its independent actuaries, taking into consideration existing and future economic conditions and the Company’s intentions with regard to the plans. Management believes that its estimates for 2007, as disclosed in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” to be reasonable. 

 Long-Term Rate of Return Assumption - The expected long-term rate of return on invested pension plan assets is a component of pension expense. The rate is based on the plans’ weighted-average target asset allocation, as well as historical and future expected performance of those assets. The target asset allocation is selected to obtain an investment return that is sufficient to cover the expected benefit payments and to reduce future contributions by the Company. The Company’s common stock represented approximately 1 percent of the total pension plans’ assets at February 2, 2008.  

20 

 The weighted-average long-term rate of return used to determine 2007 pension expense was 8.85 percent. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return would have increased 2007 pension expense by approximately $3 million. The actual return on plan assets in a given year may differ from the expected long-term rate of return and the resulting gain or loss is deferred and amortized into the plans’ expense over time. 

 Discount Rate - An assumed discount rate is used to measure the present value of future cash flow obligations of the plans and the interest cost component of pension expense and postretirement income. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Company’s U.S. benefit obligations as of February 2, 2008 was derived using a cash flow matching method whereby the Company compares the plans’ projected payment obligations by year with the corresponding yield on the Citibank Pension Discount Curve. The cash flows are then discounted to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Company’s Canadian benefit obligations as of February 2, 2008 was developed by using the plan’s bond portfolio indices which match the benefit obligations.  

 A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average discount rate would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation as of February 2, 2008 of the pension plans by approximately $27 million and the effect on the postretirement plan would not be significant. Such a decrease would not have significantly changed 2007 pension expense or postretirement income. 

 There is limited risk to the Company for increases in health care costs related to the postretirement plan as, beginning in 2001, new retirees have assumed the full expected costs and then-existing retirees and future retirees have assumed all increases in such costs. 

 The Company expects to record postretirement income of approximately $8 million and pension expense of approximately $5 million in 2008. 

Income Taxes 

 In accordance with GAAP, deferred tax assets are recognized for tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards, reduced by a valuation allowance, which is established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management is required to estimate taxable income for future years by taxing jurisdiction and to use its judgment to determine whether or not to record a valuation allowance for part or all of a deferred tax asset. A one percent change in the Company’s overall statutory tax rate for 2007 would have resulted in a $8 million change in the carrying value of the net deferred tax asset and a corresponding charge or credit to income tax expense depending on whether such tax rate change was a decrease or increase. 

 The Company has operations in multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. Tax audits by their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve. Accruals of tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgments with respect to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual results could vary from these estimates. 

 The Company expects its 2008 effective tax rate to be approximately 35.5 percent. The actual rate will primarily depend upon the percentage of the Company’s income earned in the United States as compared with international operations. 

Discontinued, Repositioning and Restructuring Reserves 

 The Company exited four business segments as part of its discontinuation and restructuring programs. The final discontinued segment and disposition of the restructured businesses were completed in 2001. In order to identify and calculate the associated costs to exit these businesses, management made assumptions regarding estimates of future liabilities for operating leases and other contractual agreements, the net realizable value of assets held for sale or disposal and the fair value of non-cash consideration received. The Company has settled the majority of these liabilities and the remaining activity relates to the disposition of the residual lease liabilities. 

 As a result of achieving divestiture accounting in the fourth quarter of 2002, the Northern Group note was recorded at its fair value. The Company is required to review the collectibility of the note based upon various criteria such as the credit-worthiness of the issuer or a delay in payment of the principal or interest. Future adjustments, if any, to the carrying value of the note will be recorded pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5:Z:5, “Accounting  

21 

and Disclosure Regarding Discontinued Operations,” which requires changes in the carrying value of assets received as consideration from the disposal of a discontinued operation to be classified within continuing operations. The purchaser has made all payments required under the terms of the note; however, the business has sustained unexpected operating losses during the past fiscal year. The Company has evaluated the projected performance of the business and will continue to monitor its results during the coming year. At February 2, 2008, CAD$15.5 million remains outstanding on the note, the fair value of which is US$14 million. 

 The remaining discontinued reserve balances at February 2, 2008 totaled $23 million of which $14 million is expected to be utilized within the next twelve months. The remaining repositioning and restructuring reserves totaled $2 million at February 2, 2008. 

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 

 This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, which address activities, events or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, such things as future capital expenditures, expansion, strategic plans, dividend payments, stock repurchases, growth of the Company’s business and operations, including future cash flows, revenues and earnings, and other such matters are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors detailed in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the effects of currency fluctuations, customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, the Company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor), unseasonable weather, economic conditions worldwide, any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to the threat of future terrorist activities in the United States or in other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas, the ability of the Company to execute its business plans effectively with regard to each of its business units, risks associated with foreign global sourcing, including political instability, changes in import regulations, and disruptions to transportation services and distribution. Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk