Item 1. Business   

 Our Business: Omnicom, a strategic holding company, was formed in 1986 by the merger of several leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies. We are one of the largest advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies in the world and we operate in a highly competitive industry. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development of interactive technologies and mediums along with their integration within all offerings, have effectively fragmented mass audiences. These developments make it increasingly more difficult for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to marketing service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing communications services designed to make the best use of their total marketing expenditures.    

 Our agencies, which operate in all major markets around the world, provide an extensive range of services which we group into four fundamental disciplines: traditional media advertising; customer relationship management (“CRM”); public relations; and specialty communications. The services included in these categories are:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Although the medium used to reach a given client’s target audience may be different across each of these disciplines, the marketing message is developed and delivered in a similar way by providing client-specific consulting services.   

 Our business model was built and evolves around our clients. While our companies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is to structure our business offerings and allocate our resources based on the specific requirements of our clients. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they have tended to consolidate their business with larger, multi-disciplinary agencies or integrated groups of agencies. Accordingly, our business model demands that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal organizational structures to execute against our clients’specific marketing requirements. We believe that this organizational philosophy, and our ability to execute it, helps to differentiate us from our competition.   

  1 

 Our agency networks and our virtual networks, provide us with the ability to integrate services across all disciplines. This means that the delivery of these services can, and does, take place across agencies, networks and geographic regions simultaneously.   

 Further, for the longer term, we believe that our virtual network strategy facilitates better integration of services required by the demands of the marketplace for advertising and marketing communications services. Our over-arching strategy for our business is to continue to use our virtual networks to grow our business relationships with our clients.   

 The various components of our business and material factors that affected us in 2007 are discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) of this report. None of our acquisitions in 2007, 2006 or 2005 were material to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. For information concerning our acquisitions, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.   

 Geographic Regions and Segments: Our total consolidated revenue is about evenly divided between U.S. and non-U.S. operations. For financial information concerning domestic and foreign operations and segment reporting, see our MD&A and Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.    

 Our Clients: Consistent with the fundamentals of our business strategy, our agencies serve similar clients, in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients, across a variety of geographic regions and locations. Our clients participate in virtually all industry sectors of the global economy. Furthermore, in many cases, our agencies or networks serve different product groups within the same clients served by other Omnicom agencies or networks. For example, our largest client was served by more than 100 of our agencies in 2007 and represented 2.8% of our 2007 consolidated revenue. No other client accounted for more than 2.4% of our consolidated 2007 revenue. Each of our top 100 clients was served, on average, by more than 40 of our agencies in 2007 and represented 46.2% of our 2007 consolidated revenue.    

 Our Employees: At December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 70,000 people. We are not party to any significant collective bargaining agreements. The skill-sets of our workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is the ability to understand a client’s brand, its selling proposition and the ability to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand to the client’s target audience. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established tailored training and education programs for our service professionals around this competency. See our MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs on our historical results of operations.    

 Executive Officers of the Registrant: Our executive officers as of February 15, 2008 are:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 All of the executive officers have held their present positions at Omnicom for at least five years except as specified below.   

 Michael Birkin was appointed Vice Chairman, as well as President and CEO of Omnicom Asia-Pacific, on March 1, 2005. From 1999 to 2005, he served as Worldwide President of DAS. Mr. Birkin previously served as International President of DAS from 1997 to 1999 and European Managing Director of DAS from 1995 to 1997.   

  2 

    Charles Brymer was named President and CEO of DDB Worldwide in April 2006. Formerly, Mr. Brymer was the Chairman and CEO of Interbrand Group, a global brand consultancy firm.     

    Thomas Carroll was named Chief Executive Officer of TBWA Worldwide on December 17, 2007, having been made President of TBWA Worldwide in September 2006. From August 2004 until September 2006, Mr. Carroll served as Vice Chairman of TBWA Worldwide. Before that, he was President of TBWA Americas.     

    Michael O’Brien joined Omnicom Group Inc. in November 2003 and was appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in December 2003. Before that, Mr. O’Brien was a partner in the law firm of Goodwin Procter LLP.     

    Andrew Robertson was named Chief Executive Officer of BBDO Worldwide in May of 2004, having been made President of BBDO Worldwide in 2002. In 2001, Mr. Robertson was President and CEO of BBDO North America and was subsequently elected to the Worldwide Board of Directors of BBDO. He joined BBDO in 1995.     

    Daryl Simm was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Omnicom Media Group in November 2005. Mr. Simm previously held the position of President and CEO of OMG.     

    Additional information about our directors and executive officers appears under the captions “Corporate Governance,” “Certain Transactions,” “Election of Directors,” “Executive Compensation” and “Stock Ownership” in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed by April 4, 2008.     

Item 1A. Risk Factors