Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

 Foreign Exchange: Our results of operations are subject to risk from the translation to the U.S. Dollar of the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations, which are generally denominated in the local currency. The effects of currency exchange rate fluctuation on the translation of our results of operations are discussed in Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements. For the most part, our revenue and the expenses incurred related to that revenue are denominated in the same currency. This minimizes the impact that fluctuations in exchange rates will have on our net income.    

 While our agencies conduct business in more than 70 different currencies, our major non-U.S. currency markets are the European Monetary Union (EMU), the United Kingdom, Japan, Brazil and Canada. As an integral part of our treasury operations, we enter into short-term forward foreign exchange contracts which manage the foreign exchange risk of the intercompany cash movements between subsidiaries operating in different currency markets from that of our treasury centers from which they borrow or invest. In the limited number of instances where operating expenses and revenue are not denominated in the same currency, amounts are promptly settled or hedged in the foreign currency market with forward contracts. At December 31, 2007, we had forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding with an aggregate notional principal of $246.9 million mitigating the foreign exchange risk of intercompany borrowings and investments. The majority of the contracts were denominated in our major international market currencies with maturities ranging from two to 365 days with an average duration of just over 100 days.   

 In addition to hedging intercompany cash movement, we enter into short-term forward foreign exchange contracts which hedge U.S. Dollar commercial paper issued by our London treasury center, whose functional currency is the British Pound. At December 31, 2007, we had no forward contracts outstanding relating to this activity as there was no commercial paper outstanding.   

 Additionally, at December 31, 2007 we had cross-currency interest rate swaps in place with an aggregate notional principal amount of €230.0 million (Euro) maturing in 2010 and Japanese Yen-based cross-currency interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional principal amount of Japanese Yen 22.0 billion maturing in 2013. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for information about the fair value of each type of derivative instrument.   

 The forward foreign exchange and swap contracts discussed above were entered into for the purpose of hedging certain specific currency risks. These risks are primarily the result of the temporary movement of money from one local market to another as part of our cash management program. As a result of these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) which might have occurred if the markets moved favorably. In using these contracts, we exchanged the risks of the financial markets for counterparty risk. To minimize counterparty risk, we only enter into these contracts with major well-known banks and financial institutions that have debt credit ratings equal to or better than our credit rating.   

  27 

 These hedging activities are confined to risk management activities related to our international operations. We have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. We periodically determine the potential loss from market risk by performing a value-at-risk computation. Value-at-risk analysis is a statistical model that utilizes historic currency exchange and interest rate data to measure the potential impact on future earnings of our existing portfolio of derivative financial instruments. The value-at-risk analysis we performed on our December 31, 2007 portfolio of derivative financial instruments indicated that the risk of loss was immaterial. This overall system is designed to enable us to initiate remedial action, if appropriate.   

 Debt Instruments: In March 2006, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our Senior Notes due April 15, 2016. The gross proceeds from the issuance were $995.1 million. The gross proceeds less fees resulted in a 6.05% yield to maturity. The Senior Notes were issued by Omnicom Group Inc. and two of our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries, Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance Inc., as co-obligors, similar to our Convertible Notes. The Senior Notes are senior unsecured notes that rank in equal right of payment with all existing and future unsecured indebtedness and as a joint and several liability of the issuer and the co-obligors.    

 In June 2006, we amended and extended our five-year credit facility to June 23, 2011 and increased the amount available from $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion with substantially the same bank consortium. In conjunction with this amendment and extension, we terminated our $400.0 million 364-day revolving credit facility that was due to expire. Subsequently, in September 2006, the facility was increased from $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion. We have the ability to classify outstanding borrowings, if any, under our five-year credit facility as long-term debt.   

 In funding our day-to-day liquidity, we are an active participant in the commercial paper market with a $1.5 billion program. As of December 31, 2007, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our credit facility provides credit support for commercial paper, as well as providing back-up liquidity in the event any of our convertible notes are put back to us.   

 Our bank syndicate includes large global banks such as Citibank, JPMorgan Chase, HSBC, ABN Amro, Deutsche, Bank of America, Societe Generale and BBVA. We also include large regional banks in the U.S. such as Wachovia, US Bancorp, Northern Trust, PNC and Wells Fargo. We also include banks that have a major presence in countries where we conduct business such as Sumitomo in Japan, Fortis in Belgium, Intesa San Paolo in Italy, Scotia in Canada and ANZ in Australia.   

 Our other long-term debt consists principally of convertible notes. As previously discussed, the holders of these convertible notes have the right on specific dates to cause us to repurchase up to the aggregate principal amount. We may offer the holders of our convertible notes a supplemental interest payment or other incentives to induce them not to put the convertible notes to us in advance of a put date. If we were to decide to pay a supplemental interest payment, the amount incurred would be based on a combination of market factors at the time of the applicable put date, including our stock price, short-term interest rates and a factor for credit risk.   

 If the convertible notes are put back to us, our interest expense could increase. The extent, if any, of the increase in interest expense will depend on the portion of the amount repurchased that was refinanced, when we refinance, the type of instrument we use to refinance and the term of the instrument.   

 Supplemental interest payments such as those made in 2005 and 2006 to qualified noteholders, as described above under “Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related Covenants,” are one method of keeping the convertible notes outstanding. If we are required to satisfy a put, based on our current financial condition and expectations, we expect to have sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund any put, while still preserving ample capacity under these commitments to meet our cash requirements for the normal course of our business operations after the put event.   

 Our credit commitments allow either the issuance of commercial paper or bank loans, and we would likely fund the put initially using some combination of these instruments. We would then evaluate all funding alternatives available to us to replenish our credit capacity and liquidity. We believe the funding alternatives would include substantially all forms of debt, equity and convertible instruments available to us by accessing the public or private capital markets. Our evaluation would likely include the expected cash flows from the normal course of our business operations and the credit capacity to fund additional potential puts on the remaining outstanding convertible notes.   

  28 

 Currently, we meet all of our debt covenant requirements. Our credit facilities contain financial covenants limiting the ratio of total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated EBITDA (for purposes of these covenants EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to no more than 3.0 times. At December 31, 2007, our ratio of debt to EBITDA was 1.6 times. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of at least 5.0 times. At December 31, 2007, our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense was 17.5 times. We were in compliance with these covenants. In addition, the credit facilities do not limit our ability to declare or pay dividends.   

 Even if we were to replace the convertible notes with another form of debt on a dollar-for-dollar basis, it would have no impact on either our debt to capital ratios or our debt to EBITDA ratio. If we were to replace our convertible notes with interest-bearing debt at prevailing rates, this potential increase in interest expense would negatively impact our coverage ratios, such as EBITDA to interest expense. However, the coverage ratios applicable to our credit facilities and ratings levels are currently well within the thresholds. If either our ratio of debt to EBITDA increased by 50%, or our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense decreased by 50%, we would still be in compliance with these covenants. Therefore, based on our current coverage ratios, our present expectations of our future operating cash flows and expected access to debt and equity capital markets, we believe any increase in interest expense and reduction in coverage ratios would still place us comfortably above the coverage ratio requirements. Thus, we do not expect any negative impact on our credit ratings if the convertible notes are put to us.   

 Credit Markets: During the third quarter of 2007, volatility in the financial markets resulted in an increase in borrowing spreads in the commercial paper market. To mitigate the effect of these increased spreads, we arranged for $300.0 million in unsecured uncommitted lines of credit and shifted the funding of a portion of our daily borrowing needs to these lines from our commercial paper program. At December 31, 2007 there were no borrowings outstanding under these unsecured uncommitted lines of credit, as these lines were terminated during the fourth quarter of 2007. At December 31, 2007, the volatility in the credit markets did not have any impact on our debt instruments and credit ratings.    

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data