Item 1A. Risk Factors   

Companies periodically review and change their advertising, marketing and corporate communications services business models and relationships. If we are unable to remain competitive or retain key clients, our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected.   

 The businesses in which we participate are highly competitive. Key competitive considerations for retaining existing business and winning new business include our ability to develop creative solutions that meet client needs, the quality and effectiveness of the services we offer, and our ability to efficiently serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis. While many of our client relationships are long-standing, companies put their advertising, marketing and corporate communications services business up for competitive review from time to time. We have won and lost accounts in the past as a result of these reviews. To the extent that we are not able to remain competitive, our revenue may be adversely affected, which could then affect our results of operations and financial condition.   

The success of our acquiring and retaining clients depends on our ability to avoid and manage conflicts of interest arising out of other client relationships and retention of key personnel.   

 Our ability to retain existing clients and to attract new clients may, in some cases, be limited by clients’perceptions of, or policies concerning, conflicts of interest arising out of other client relationships. If we are unable to maintain multiple agencies to effectively manage multiple client relationships and avoid potential conflicts of interests, our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected.   

 In addition, we may lose or fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our employees are our most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel is an important aspect of our competitiveness. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our ability to provide our services in the manner our customers have come to expect may be adversely affected, which could harm our reputation and result in a loss of clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   

Government regulations and consumer advocates may limit the scope of the content of our services, which could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.   

 Government agencies and consumer groups have directly or indirectly from time to time affected or attempted to affect the scope, content and manner of presentation of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services, whether through regulations or other governmental actions. Any such limitations on the scope of the content of our services could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there has been an   

  3 

increasing tendency on the part of businesses to resort to the judicial system to challenge advertising practices. We cannot assure investors that such claims by businesses or governmental agencies will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the future.   

We receive approximately 46% of our revenue from our 100 largest clients, and the loss of several of these clients could adversely impact our prospects, our business and our results of operations and financial condition.   

 Our clients generally are able to reduce advertising and marketing spending or cancel projects at any time for any reason. It is possible that our clients could reduce spending in comparison with historical patterns, or they could reduce future spending. A significant reduction in advertising and marketing spending by our largest clients, or the loss of several of our largest clients, if not replaced by new client accounts or an increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   

We may be impacted during periods of economic recession.   

 Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in general economic conditions or during periods of economic recession due to potential reductions in client advertising, marketing and corporate communications budgets and overall spending levels. The effect of a reduction in any of these items could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.   

We are a global service business and face certain risks of doing business abroad, including political instability and exchange controls, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.   

 We face the risks normally associated with global services businesses. The operational and financial performance of our businesses are typically tied to overall economic and regional market conditions, competition for client assignments and talented staff, new business wins and losses and the risks associated with extensive international operations. There are some risks of doing business abroad, including those of political instability and exchange controls, which do not affect domestic-focused firms. For financial information on our operations by geographic area, see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.   

We are exposed to risks from operating in developing countries.   

 We conduct business in various developing countries around the world. The risks associated with conducting business in developing countries can include slower payment of invoices; nationalization; social, political and economic instability; and currency repatriation restrictions, among other risks. In addition, commercial laws in many of these countries can be vague, inconsistently administered and retroactively applied. If we are deemed not to be in compliance with applicable laws in developing countries where we conduct business, our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations in those countries could be harmed, which could then have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.   

Holders of our convertible notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to $2.0 billion, in whole or in part, at specified dates in the future.   

 If we are required to satisfy a put to repurchase our convertible notes, we expect to have sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund the put. We also believe that we will still have ample capacity under our existing credit commitments to meet our cash requirements for the normal course of our business operations after any put event. However, in the event that our existing credit commitments or our cash flow from operations were decreased, we could experience difficulties in funding our business operations and would have to seek additional funding alternatives as described more fully in our MD&A. Furthermore, the 2031, 2032, 2033 and 2038 Notes are convertible, at specified ratios if, in the case of the 2031 Notes and the 2032 Notes, our long-term debt credit ratings are downgraded to BBB or lower by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, or Baa3 or lower by Moody’s Investors Service or in the case of the 2033 and 2038 Notes to BBB- or lower by S&P, and Ba1 or lower by Moody’s. These events would not, however, result in an adjustment of the number of shares issuable upon conversion and would not accelerate the holder’s right to cause us to repurchase the notes.   

Downgrades of our debt credit ratings could adversely affect us.   

 Standard and Poor’s Rating Service currently rates our long-term debt A-, Moody’s Investors Service rates our long-term debt Baa1 and Fitch Ratings rates our long-term debt A-. Our short-term debt ratings are A2, P2 and F2 by the respective agencies. Our outstanding senior notes, convertible notes and our existing bank credit facility do not contain provisions that require acceleration of cash payment upon a downgrade. The interest rates and fees on our bank credit facility, however, would increase if our long-term debt credit rating is downgraded. Additionally, our access to the capital markets could be adversely affected by adverse changes to the short- or long-term debt credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies.   

  4 

We may be unsuccessful in evaluating material risks involved in completed and future acquisitions.   

 We regularly review potential acquisitions of businesses we believe may be complementary to our businesses and client needs. As part of the review we conduct business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in any particular transaction. Despite our efforts, we may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. As a result, we might not realize the intended advantages of any given acquisition. If we fail to identify certain material risks from one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.   

Goodwill may become impaired.   

 We have recorded a significant amount of goodwill in our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP” or “GAAP”) resulting from our acquisition activities, which principally represents the specialized know-how of the workforce at the agencies we have acquired. We annually test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment, as discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. The estimates and assumptions about future results of operations and cash flows made in connection with the impairment testing could differ from future actual results of operations and cash flows. While we have concluded, for each year presented in our financial statements, that our goodwill is not impaired, future events could cause us to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation may become impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

 None.   

Item 2. Properties