Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting our consolidated operating results, financial condition, liquidity and capital resources during the three-year period ended January 30, 2015 (our fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012). Unless otherwise noted, all references herein for the years 2014, 2013 and 2012 represent the fiscal years ended January 30, 2015, January 31, 2014 and February 1, 2013, respectively. We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles affect our financial statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. This discussion and analysis is presented in seven sections:

•Executive Overview

•Operations

•Lowe’s Business Outlook

•Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

•Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments

•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW

Net earnings increased 18.0% to $2.7 billion during fiscal year 2014, and diluted earnings per share increased 26.6% to $2.71. Net sales for 2014 were $56.2 billion, a 5.3% increase over fiscal year 2013. Comparable sales increased 4.3%, driven by a comparable average ticket increase of 2.4% and a comparable transaction increase of 1.8%. 

For 2014, cash flows from operating activities were approximately $4.9 billion, with $880 million used for capital expenditures. Our strong financial position and positive cash flows allowed us to deliver on our commitment to return excess cash to shareholders. During 2014, the company repurchased 74.7 million shares of stock for $3.9 billion and paid $822 million in dividends.

Throughout 2014, we continued to build momentum as we further optimized our business model. We were focused on three priorities to drive further top line growth including our enhanced Sales & Operations Planning process, building on our customer experience design capabilities, and improving our relevance with the Pro customer. In addition, in order to provide not just the products, but also the services, information, and advice to help our customers improve their homes, we are continuing to transform from a single-channel, home improvement retailer to an omni-channel home improvement company. This allows us to sell products from a store, online, on-site, or through one of our contact centers and fulfill orders in the most convenient manner for our customers.

Through our Sales & Operations Planning process, we have improved seasonal planning, including the cadence of product introductions, promotions and staffing. Our Sales & Operations process is anchored in the customer mindset for the season. The process ensures collaboration from all functions, including logistics, merchandising and marketing, to make certain we have relevant products available to customers at the right time and those products are effectively advertised and strategically promoted to drive customer traffic. 

In addition, during 2014, we continued to build customer experience design capabilities. We now have a dedicated customer experience design team that coordinates the creation of customer experiences that encompass the entire project from inspiration, to purchase, to fulfillment. These experiences are rooted in research around customers' shopping preferences and mindset about specific home improvement projects. Any experience we design has to meet three critical criteria: it must be desirable to our target customer; feasible - fitting within the organization's competencies; and viable - or something we can deliver in a profitable and sustainable way. For example, during 2014, we rolled out an Outdoor Living Experience to two-thirds of our stores in advance of the spring selling season. To help customers envision and create their outdoor space, we displayed patio sets with coordinating rugs, umbrellas, and accessories, along with grills and other outdoor products just as they would have expected in their own backyard. This space was re-purposed for the Holiday Décor Experience in the second half of the year which inspired customers to decorate, raised awareness of the breadth of holiday décor and gift offerings, and provided project solutions relevant to the holiday micro seasons. By providing an integrative and cohesive assortment of products, inspiring and intuitive presentation and display, and optimal service components across all selling channels, we are able to provide better customer experiences that differentiate us in the marketplace.

17
We continued to experience strength with our Pro customers, which have performed at or above the company average comparable sales increase for 14 consecutive quarters. We have a strong foundation for doing business with Pro customers with our dedicated service in the stores, inventory depth, job lot quantities and a strong value proposition. We are enhancing our product and service offering with this important customer, including ensuring we have the types of products and brands the Pros demand. For example, during 2014, we added brands such as Henry® coatings, Hubbell® wiring devices, GRK Fasteners™, and Progress® Lighting, all of which help make Lowe’s the destination for the Pro. In addition, we have been working to relaunch Lowesforpros.com, a dedicated platform which provides Pro customers with the ability to transact with us online and provides Pros the ability to develop requisition lists, access to purchase history, and customized product catalogs. 

Looking Forward

Economic forecasts for 2015 suggest moderately stronger growth in the home improvement industry. Stronger job and income growth and improving household financial conditions are expected to build on the momentum gained in 2014. In addition, an increase in revolving credit usage should allow customers to be more willing and able to take on discretionary home improvement projects. Improvements in the housing market should also persist in 2015 with moderating home price growth and mortgage rates that remain historically low.

As we move into 2015, we will focus on capitalizing on market opportunities and driving profitability within an improving economy. We will continue to differentiate ourselves through better customer experiences and improving our product and service offering for the Pro customer. We have made progress over the past few years to meet customers on their terms whenever and wherever they choose to engage, and we will continue to invest in omni-channel capabilities to ensure that we are convenient and easy to do business with. We also remain committed to improving our productivity and profitability in areas including store payroll, marketing and efforts to leverage our scale to achieve cost savings on indirect spend. 

18
OPERATIONS

The following tables set forth the percentage relationship to net sales of each line item of the consolidated statements of earnings, as well as the percentage change in dollar amounts from the prior year. This table should be read in conjunction with the following discussion and analysis and the consolidated financial statements, including the related notes to the consolidated financial statements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

19
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 EBIT margin, also referred to as operating margin, is defined as earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales.

2 A comparable location is defined as a location that has been open longer than 13 months. A location that is identified for relocation is no longer considered comparable one month prior to its relocation. The relocated location must then remain open longer than 13 months to be considered comparable. A location we have decided to close is no longer considered comparable as of the beginning of the month in which we announce its closing. Acquired locations are included in the comparable sales calculation beginning in the first full month following the first anniversary of the date of the acquisition. Comparable sales include online sales, which did not have a meaningful impact for the periods presented.

3 Average ticket is defined as net sales divided by the total number of customer transactions.

4 Average store size selling square feet is defined as sales floor square feet divided by the number of stores open at the end of the period. The average Lowe’s home improvement store has approximately 112,000 square feet of retail selling space, while the average Orchard store has approximately 36,000 square feet of retail selling space.

5 Return on average assets is defined as net earnings divided by average total assets for the last five quarters.

6 Return on average shareholders’ equity is defined as net earnings divided by average shareholders’ equity for the last five quarters.

7 Return on invested capital is a non-GAAP financial measure. See below for additional information and a reconciliation to the most comparable GAAP measure.

Return on Invested Capital

Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe ROIC is a meaningful metric for investors because it measures how effectively the Company uses capital to generate profits.

We define ROIC as trailing four quarters’ net operating profit after tax divided by the average of ending debt and equity for the last five quarters. Although ROIC is a common financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating ROIC. Accordingly, the method used by our management to calculate ROIC may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their ROIC. We encourage you to understand the methods used by another company to calculate its ROIC before comparing its ROIC to ours.

We consider return on average debt and equity to be the financial measure computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to ROIC. The difference between these two measures is that ROIC adjusts net earnings to exclude tax adjusted interest expense.

20
The calculation of ROIC, together with a reconciliation to the calculation of return on average debt and equity, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Income tax adjustment is defined as earnings before interest and taxes multiplied by the effective tax rate.

2 Average debt and equity is defined as average debt, including current maturities and short-term borrowings, plus total equity for the last five quarters.

Fiscal 2014 Compared to Fiscal 2013 

Net sales – Net sales increased 5.3% to $56.2 billion in 2014. The increase in total sales was driven primarily by the comparable sales increase of 4.3%, the acquisition of Orchard, and new stores. The comparable sales increase of 4.3% in 2014 was driven by a 2.4% increase in comparable average ticket and a 1.8% increase in comparable customer transactions. Comparable sales increased during each quarter of the fiscal year as we reported 0.9% in the first quarter, 4.4% in the second quarter, 5.1% in the third quarter, and 7.3% in the fourth quarter.

All of our product categories experienced comparable sales increases for the year. During 2014, we experienced comparable sales above the company average in the following product categories: Millwork, Kitchens & Appliances, Tools & Hardware, and Fashion Fixtures. Targeted promotions coupled with the expansion of our Project Specialist programs drove comparable sales increases, especially within Millwork, Kitchens & Appliances, and Fashion Fixtures, as we continued to benefit from customers' increasing interest in refreshing both the interior and exterior of their homes. Within Tools & Hardware, our enhanced Sales & Operations Planning process helped us drive strong performance in power and pneumatic tools. In addition, Flooring and Outdoor Power Equipment performed at approximately the overall company average. Geographically, 13 of the 14 U.S. regions experienced increases in comparable store sales, as sales performance was well balanced across the country.

Gross margin – Gross margin of 34.79% for 2014 represented a 20 basis point increase from 2013 and was primarily driven by cost reductions associated with our Value Improvement initiative, which consisted of improved line review and product reset processes to better position us to meet customers' product needs and drive better inventory productivity. 

21
During the fourth quarter of 2014, gross margin decreased one basis point as a percentage of sales. Gross margin was negatively impacted by mix of products sold and price actions on specific categories, partially offset by our Value Improvement program and better seasonal sell-through. 

SG&A – SG&A expense for 2014 leveraged 46 basis points as a percentage of sales compared to 2013. This was primarily driven by 21 basis points of leverage associated with operating salaries as we optimized payroll hours against customer traffic. We also experienced 16 basis points of leverage associated with incentive compensation due to lower attainment levels compared to the prior year and seven basis points of leverage in property taxes due to favorability in property valuations recognized in the current year. In addition, we experienced six basis points of leverage in advertising expense due to increased sales and five basis points of leverage in utilities due to decreased consumption due to favorable weather experienced in the current year. These were partially offset by 23 basis points of deleverage in employee insurance costs, due to increased claims as well as additional costs associated with the Affordable Care Act. 

SG&A expense during the fourth quarter leveraged 88 basis points due primarily to long-lived asset impairments recorded in the prior year, as well as leverage in operating salaries, and property taxes.

Depreciation – Depreciation expense leveraged 10 basis points for 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to the increase in sales. Property, less accumulated depreciation, decreased to $20.0 billion at January 30, 2015 compared to $20.8 billion at January 31, 2014. At January 30, 2015 and January 31, 2014, we owned 86% of our stores, which included stores on leased land.

Interest – Net – Net interest expense is comprised of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net interest expense increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $1.25 billion and $1.0 billion of unsecured notes in September 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Income tax provision - Our effective income tax rate was 36.9% in 2014 compared to 37.8% in 2013. The lower effective tax rate in 2014 was the result of the favorable settlement of certain federal tax matters during the year.

Fiscal 2013 Compared to Fiscal 2012 

Net sales – Net sales increased 5.7% to $53.4 billion in 2013. Comparable sales increased 4.8% in 2013, driven by a 3.2% increase in comparable average ticket and a 1.6% increase in comparable customer transactions. Performance for the year was strong across product categories as all of our product categories experienced comparable sales increases for the year. During 2013, we experienced comparable sales above the company average in the following product categories: Outdoor Power Equipment, Kitchens & Appliances, Flooring, and Fashion Fixtures. Sales to Pro customers also performed well during the year and experienced comparable sales above the company average.

Sales during the year benefited from growth in the home improvement industry where gains in housing turnover and job growth created increased demand. Through our Sales & Operations Planning process, we were able to better capitalize on market demand and drive sales in big ticket categories such as Outdoor Power Equipment, Kitchens & Appliances, and Flooring, which all performed above the company average. Furthermore, we were able to make improvements in our seasonal planning and the timing of product introductions and promotions, which also helped drive sales in these categories. 

We continued to realize benefits from our strategic initiatives, with many product categories benefiting from improved line designs and deeper inventory in key items after having completed their Value Improvement resets. In addition, we also saw benefit from our proprietary credit value proposition, which offers customers the choice of 5% off every day or promotional financing. 

Gross margin – Gross margin of 34.59% for 2013 represented a 29 basis point increase from 2012. Gross margin was positively impacted by 45 basis points resulting from our Value Improvement initiative. This was partially offset by a negative 

22
impact of 15 basis points as a result of higher penetration of our proprietary credit value proposition, which increased 145 basis points over the prior year and was approximately 25.5% of sales.

SG&A – SG&A expense for 2013 leveraged 16 basis points as a percentage of sales compared to 2012. This was driven by 17 basis points of leverage associated with casualty insurance as we cycled a reduction in the discount rate applied in the prior year. We also experienced nine basis points of leverage due to greater long-lived asset impairments and discontinued project expenses in the prior year and eight basis points of leverage in advertising expense due to higher sales. In addition, we experienced eight basis points of leverage in contract labor expense as a result of lower spending on information technology projects in the current year. These were partially offset by 14 basis points of deleverage associated with incentive compensation due to higher attainment levels and eight basis points of deleverage as a result of reset and remerchandising activity associated with efforts to improve customer experiences. We also experienced eight basis points of deleverage due to higher store repair and maintenance expense.

Depreciation – Depreciation expense leveraged 27 basis points for 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to the increase in sales as well as assets becoming fully depreciated. Property, less accumulated depreciation, decreased to $20.8 billion at January 31, 2014 compared to $21.5 billion at February 1, 2013. At January 31, 2014 and February 1, 2013 we owned 86% and 89% of our stores, respectively, which included stores on leased land.

Interest – Net – Net interest expense is comprised of the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net interest expense increased primarily as a result of a favorable tax settlement that resulted in a reduced interest accrual in 2012, in addition to increased expense as a result of the net increase in long-term debt.

LOWE’S BUSINESS OUTLOOK

As of February 25, 2015, the date of our fourth quarter 2014 earnings release, we expected total sales in 2015 to increase 4.5% to 5% and comparable sales to increase 4% to 4.5%. We expected to open 15 to 20 home improvement and hardware stores during 2015. In addition, earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales (operating margin) were expected to increase 80 to 100 basis points, and the effective tax rate was expected to be approximately 38.1%. Diluted earnings per share of approximately $3.29 were expected for the fiscal year ending January 29, 2016. Our guidance assumed approximately $3.8 billion in share repurchases during 2015.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash Flows

Cash flows from operating activities continued to provide the primary source of our liquidity. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2014 versus 2013 was primarily driven by changes in working capital and an increase in net earnings. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities for 2014 versus 2013 was primarily driven by the acquisition of Orchard in the prior year and a reduction in capital expenditures, partially offset by an increase in net contributions to equity method investments in the current year. The increase in net cash used in financing activities for 2014 versus 2013 was driven primarily by repayments of short-term borrowings. 

Sources of Liquidity

In addition to our cash flows from operations, liquidity is provided by our short-term borrowing facilities. On August 29, 2014, we entered into a new five year unsecured revolving credit agreement (the 2014 Credit Facility) to replace the 2011 Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated October 2011. The 2014 Credit Facility provides for borrowings up to $1.75 billion and expires in August 2019. Subject to obtaining commitments from the lenders and satisfying other conditions specified in the 2014 Credit Facility, we may increase the aggregate availability under the facility by an additional $500 million. The 2014 Credit Facility supports our commercial paper program and has a $500 million letter of credit sublimit. Letters of credit issued pursuant to the 2014 Credit Facility reduce the amount available for borrowing under its terms. 

23
Borrowings made are unsecured and are priced at fixed rates based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms of the 2014 Credit Facility. Thirteen banking institutions are participating in the 2014 Credit Facility. The 2014 Credit Facility contains certain restrictive covenants, which include maintenance of an adjusted debt leverage ratio as defined by the credit agreement. We were in compliance with those covenants at January 30, 2015. In addition, there were no outstanding borrowings or letters of credit under the 2014 Credit Facility and no outstanding borrowings under the commercial paper program at January 30, 2015. For additional information about the 2014 Credit Facility, see the summary of certain terms thereof that is included in the Current Report on Form 8-K we filed on September 2, 2014 with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

We expect to continue to have access to the capital markets on both short-term and long-term bases when needed for liquidity purposes by issuing commercial paper or new long-term debt. The availability and the borrowing costs of these funds could be adversely affected, however, by a downgrade of our debt ratings or a deterioration of certain financial ratios. The table below reflects our debt ratings by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s as of March 31, 2015, which we are disclosing to enhance understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effect of our ratings on our cost of funds. Although we currently do not expect a downgrade in our debt ratings, our commercial paper and senior debt ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We believe that net cash provided by operating and financing activities will be adequate not only for our operating requirements, but also for investments in information technology, investments in our existing stores, expansion plans and acquisitions, if any, and to return cash to shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases over the next 12 months. There are no provisions in any agreements that would require early cash settlement of existing debt or leases as a result of a downgrade in our debt rating or a decrease in our stock price. In addition, we do not have a significant amount of cash held in foreign affiliates that is unavailable to fund domestic operations.

Cash Requirements

Capital expenditures

Our fiscal 2015 capital forecast is approximately $1.4 billion, inclusive of approximately $200 million of lease commitments, resulting in a planned net cash outflow of $1.2 billion. Investments in our existing stores are expected to account for approximately 40% of net cash outflow, including investments in store equipment, resets, and remerchandising. Approximately 30% of the planned net cash outflow is for corporate programs, including investments to enhance the customer experience, as well as enhancements to the corporate infrastructure. In addition, approximately 30% of the planned net cash outflow is for store expansion. Our expansion plans for 2015 consist of 15 to 20 new home improvement and hardware stores, approximately half of which will be leased.

Debt and capital

In September 2014, the Company issued $1.25 billion of unsecured notes in three tranches: $450 million of floating rate notes maturing in September 2019, $450 million of 3.125% notes maturing in September 2024, and $350 million of 4.25% notes maturing in September 2044. The 2019, 2024, and 2044 Notes were issued at discounts of approximately $2 million, $6 million, and $4 million, respectively. The 2019 Notes will bear interest at a floating rate, reset quarterly, equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 0.420% (0.658% as of January 30, 2015). Interest on the 2019 Notes is payable quarterly in arrears in March, June, September, and December of each year until maturity, beginning in December 2014. Interest on the 2024 and 2044 Notes is payable semiannually in arrears in March and September of each year until maturity, beginning in March 2015.

The discounts associated with these issuances, which include the underwriting and issuance discounts, are recorded in long-term debt and are being amortized over the respective terms of the notes.

Dividends declared during fiscal 2014 totaled $858 million. Our dividend payment dates are established such that dividends are paid in the quarter immediately following the quarter in which they are declared. The dividend declared in the fourth quarter of 2014 was paid in fiscal 2015 and totaled $222 million.

We have an ongoing share repurchase program that is executed through purchases made from time to time either in the open market or through private off-market transactions. Shares purchased under the repurchase program are retired and returned to 

24
authorized and unissued status. On January 31, 2014, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a $5.0 billion share repurchase program with no expiration. As of January 30, 2015, the Company had $2.4 billion remaining available under this authorization with no expiration date. On March 20, 2015, the Company's Board of Directors authorized an additional $5.0 billion share repurchase program with no expiration. In fiscal 2015, the Company expects to repurchase shares totaling $3.8 billion through purchases made from time to time either in the open market or through private off market transactions in accordance with SEC regulations.

Our ratio of debt to equity plus debt was 53.3% and 47.0% as of January 30, 2015, and January 31, 2014, respectively.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Other than in connection with executing operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing that has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material, current or future effect on our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS

The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at January 30, 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Amounts do not include taxes, common area maintenance, insurance or contingent rent because these amounts have historically been insignificant.

2 Represents commitments related to certain marketing and information technology programs, and purchases of merchandise inventory.

3 Letters of credit are issued primarily for insurance and construction contracts.

At January 30, 2015, our reserve for uncertain tax positions (including penalties and interest) was $9 million, all of which was classified as a current liability. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements presented in this Form 10-K requires us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates on historical results and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which form the basis for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following accounting policies affect the most significant estimates and management judgments used in preparing the consolidated financial statements.

25
Merchandise Inventory

Description

We record an obsolete inventory reserve for the anticipated loss associated with selling inventories below cost. This reserve is based on our current knowledge with respect to inventory levels, sales trends and historical experience. During 2014, our reserve decreased approximately $16 million to $52 million as of January 30, 2015, primarily due to a reduction in obsolete inventory.

We also record an inventory reserve for the estimated shrinkage between physical inventories. This reserve is based primarily on actual shrinkage results from previous physical inventories. During 2014, the inventory shrinkage reserve increased approximately $4 million to $162 million as of January 30, 2015.

In addition, we receive funds from vendors in the normal course of business, principally as a result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions of vendors’ products. Generally, these vendor funds do not represent the reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs that we incurred to sell the vendor’s product. Therefore, we treat these funds as a reduction in the cost of inventory as the amounts are accrued, and recognize these funds as a reduction of cost of sales when the inventory is sold. Funds that are determined to be reimbursements of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to sell vendors’ products are recorded as an offset to the related expense.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate

We do not believe that our merchandise inventories are subject to significant risk of obsolescence in the near term, and we have the ability to adjust purchasing practices based on anticipated sales trends and general economic conditions. However, changes in consumer purchasing patterns or a deterioration in product quality could result in the need for additional reserves. Likewise, changes in the estimated shrink reserve may be necessary, based on the timing and results of physical inventories. We also apply judgment in the determination of levels of obsolete inventory and assumptions about net realizable value.

For vendor funds, we develop accrual rates based on the provisions of the agreements in place. Due to the complexity and diversity of the individual vendor agreements, we perform analyses and review historical purchase trends and volumes throughout the year, adjust accrual rates as appropriate and confirm actual amounts with select vendors to ensure the amounts earned are appropriately recorded. Amounts accrued throughout the year could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected purchase volumes, especially in the case of programs that provide for increased funding when graduated purchase volumes are met.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our inventory valuation or the related reserves for obsolete inventory or inventory shrinkage during the past three fiscal years. We believe that we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates for both of these inventory reserves. However, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded reserves. A 10% change in either the amount of products considered obsolete or the weighted average estimated loss rate used in the calculation of our obsolete inventory reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately $3 million for 2014. A 10% change in the estimated shrinkage rate included in the calculation of our inventory shrinkage reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately $10 million for 2014.

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize vendor funds during the past three fiscal years. If actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and estimates used, we could be exposed to additional adjustments that could positively or negatively impact gross margin and inventory. However, substantially all receivables associated with these activities do not require subjective long-term estimates because they are collected within the following fiscal year. Adjustments to gross margin and inventory in the following fiscal year have historically not been material.

Long-Lived Asset Impairment

Description

We review the carrying amounts of locations whenever certain events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. When evaluating locations for impairment, our asset group is at an individual location level, as that is the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable. Cash flows for individual locations do not include an allocation of corporate overhead.

We evaluate locations for triggering events relating to long-lived asset impairment on a quarterly basis to determine when a location’s asset carrying values may not be recoverable. For operating locations, our primary indicator that asset carrying values may not be recoverable is consistently negative cash flow for a 12-month period for those locations that have been open 

26
in the same location for a sufficient period of time to allow for meaningful analysis of ongoing operating results. Management also monitors other factors when evaluating operating locations for impairment, including individual locations’ execution of their operating plans and local market conditions, including incursion, which is the opening of either other Lowe’s locations or those of a direct competitor within the same market. We also consider there to be a triggering event when there is a current expectation that it is more likely than not that a given location will be closed significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life.

A potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the location’s assets are less than the carrying amount of the assets. When determining the stream of projected future cash flows associated with an individual operating location, management makes assumptions, incorporating local market conditions, about key store variables including sales growth rates, gross margin and controllable expenses, such as store payroll and occupancy expense, as well as asset residual values or lease rates. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the operating location is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value.

We use an income approach to determine the fair value of our individual operating locations, which requires discounting projected future cash flows. This involves making assumptions regarding both a location’s future cash flows, as described above, and an appropriate discount rate to determine the present value of those future cash flows. We discount our cash flow estimates at a rate commensurate with the risk that selected market participants would assign to the cash flows. The selected market participants represent a group of other retailers with a market footprint similar in size to ours.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate

Our impairment evaluations require us to apply judgment in determining whether a triggering event has occurred, including the evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that a location will be closed significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. Our impairment loss calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected future cash flows, including estimated sales, margin and controllable expenses, and assumptions about market performance for operating locations and estimated selling prices or lease rates for locations identified for closure. We also apply judgment in estimating asset fair values, including the selection of an appropriate discount rate for fair values determined using an income approach.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions

During 2014, 10 operating locations experienced a triggering event and were evaluated for recoverability. Three of the 10 operating locations were determined to be impaired. We recorded impairment losses related to these three operating locations of $26 million during 2014, compared to impairment losses of $26 million related to one operating location impaired during 2013.

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to estimate the future cash flows of operating locations or locations identified for closure during the past three fiscal years. If the actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in determining whether it is more likely than not that a location will be closed significantly before the end of its useful life or in estimating future cash flows and determining asset fair values, our actual impairment losses could vary positively or negatively from our estimated impairment losses.

Seven of the 10 operating locations that experienced a triggering event during 2014 were determined to be recoverable and therefore were not impaired. For all of these seven locations, the expected undiscounted cash flows substantially exceeded the net book value of the location’s assets. For these seven locations, a 10% reduction in projected sales used to estimate future cash flows at the latest date these operating locations were evaluated for impairment would have resulted in the impairment of six of these locations and increased recognized impairment losses by $71 million.

We analyzed other assumptions made in estimating the future cash flows of the operating locations evaluated for impairment, but the sensitivity of those assumptions was not significant to the estimates.

Store Closing Lease Obligations

Description

When locations under operating leases are closed, we recognize a liability for the fair value of future contractual obligations associated with the leased location. The fair value of the store closing lease obligation is determined using an expected present value cash flow model incorporating future minimum lease payments, property taxes, utilities, common area maintenance and other ongoing expenses, net of estimated sublease income and other recoverable items, discounted at a credit-adjusted risk free rate. The expected present value cash flow model uses a probability weighted scenario approach that assigns varying cash flows to certain scenarios based on the expected likelihood of outcomes. Estimating the fair value involves making assumptions regarding estimated sublease income by obtaining information from property brokers or appraisers in the specific 

27
markets being evaluated. The information includes comparable lease rates of similar assets and assumptions about demand in the market for leasing these assets. Subsequent changes to the liability, including a change resulting from a revision to either the timing or the amount of estimated cash flows, are recognized in the period of the change.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate

Our store closing lease liability calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected future cash flows, primarily related to estimated sublease income, and the selection of an appropriate discount rate.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions

During 2014, the Company did not close or relocate any stores subject to operating leases. During 2013, the Company relocated two stores subject to operating leases. Expenses for store closing lease obligations included $12 million and $6 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively, related to adjustments for previously closed or relocated locations.

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to estimate the expected future cash flows of closed locations under operating leases during the past three fiscal years. If the actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in estimating expected future cash flows, our store closing lease obligation losses could vary positively or negatively from our estimated losses. A 10% change in the store closing lease liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $3 million for 2014.

Self-Insurance

Description

We are self-insured for certain losses relating to workers’ compensation; automobile; general and product liability; extended protection plan; and certain medical and dental claims. Our self-insured retention or deductible, as applicable, is limited to $2 million per occurrence involving workers’ compensation, $5 million per occurrence involving general or product liability, and $10 million per occurrence involving automobile. We do not have any insurance coverage for self-insured extended protection plan or medical and dental claims. Self-insurance claims filed and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based upon our estimates of the discounted ultimate cost for self-insured claims incurred using actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and historical experience. During 2014, our self-insurance liability increased approximately $1 million to $905 million as of January 30, 2015.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate

These estimates are subject to changes in the regulatory environment; utilized discount rate; projected exposures including payroll, sales and vehicle units; as well as the frequency, lag and severity of claims.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our self-insurance liability during the past three fiscal years. Although we believe that we have the ability to reasonably estimate losses related to claims, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded self-insurance liabilities. A 10% change in our self-insurance liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $55 million for 2014. A 100 basis point change in our discount rate would have affected net earnings by approximately $19 million for 2014.

Revenue Recognition

Description

See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our revenue recognition policies. The following accounting estimates relating to revenue recognition require management to make assumptions and apply judgment regarding the effects of future events that cannot be determined with certainty.

We sell separately-priced extended protection plan contracts under a Lowe’s-branded program for which the Company is ultimately self-insured. The Company recognizes revenues from extended protection plan sales on a straight-line basis over the respective contract term. Extended protection plan contract terms primarily range from one to four years from the date of purchase or the end of the manufacturer’s warranty, as applicable. The Company consistently groups and evaluates extended protection plan contracts based on the characteristics of the underlying products and the coverage provided in order to monitor for expected losses. A loss on the overall contract would be recognized if the expected costs of performing services under the contracts exceeded the amount of unamortized acquisition costs and related deferred revenue associated with the contracts. Deferred revenues associated with the extended protection plan contracts were $730 million as of January 30, 2015 and January 31, 2014.

28
We defer revenue and cost of sales associated with settled transactions for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed. Revenue is deferred based on the actual amounts received. We use historical gross margin rates to estimate the adjustment to cost of sales for these transactions. During 2014, deferred revenues associated with these transactions increased $84 million to $545 million as of January 30, 2015.

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate

For extended protection plans, there is judgment inherent in our evaluation of expected losses as a result of our methodology for grouping and evaluating extended protection plan contracts and from the actuarial determination of the estimated cost of the contracts. There is also judgment inherent in our determination of the recognition pattern of costs of performing services under these contracts.

For the deferral of revenue and cost of sales associated with transactions for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed, there is judgment inherent in our estimates of gross margin rates.

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize revenue on our extended protection plan contracts during the past three fiscal years. We currently do not anticipate incurring any overall contract losses on our extended protection plan contracts. Although we believe that we have the ability to adequately monitor and estimate expected losses under the extended protection plan contracts, it is possible that actual results could differ from our estimates. In addition, if future evidence indicates that the costs of performing services under these contracts are incurred on other than a straight-line basis, the timing of revenue recognition under these contracts could change. A 10% change in the amount of revenue recognized in 2014 under these contracts would have affected net earnings by approximately $19 million.

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to reverse net sales and cost of sales related to amounts received for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed. We believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates related to the impact to cost of sales for these transactions. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may incur additional income or expense. A 10% change in the estimate of the gross margin rates applied to these transactions would have affected net earnings by approximately $9 million in 2014.

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

We speak throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K in forward-looking statements about our future, but particularly in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. The words “believe,” “expect,” “will,” “should,” "suggest", and other similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. While we believe our expectations are reasonable, they are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results could differ substantially from our expectations.

For a detailed description of the risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements in this section and in the “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this report.

Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk