Part I

Item 1 - Business

General Information

Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe’s) is a Fortune® 100 company and the world’s second largest home improvement retailer. As of January 30, 2015, Lowe's operated 1,840 home improvement and hardware stores, representing approximately 201 million square feet of retail selling space. Lowe's is comprised of 1,793 stores located across 50 U.S. states, including 74 Orchard Supply Hardware (Orchard) stores in California and Oregon, as well as 37 stores in Canada, and 10 stores in Mexico. 

Lowe’s was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since 1961. The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol “LOW”.

See Item 6, “Selected Financial Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for historical revenues, profits and identifiable assets. For additional information about the Company’s performance and financial condition, see also Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Customers, Market and Competition

Our Customers

We serve homeowners, renters, and professional customers (Pro customers). Retail customers, comprised of individual homeowners and renters, complete a wide array of projects and vary along the spectrum of do-it-yourself (DIY) and do-it-for-me (DIFM). The Pro customer consists of two broad categories: construction trades; and maintenance, repair & operations.

Our Market

We are among the many businesses, including home centers, paint stores, hardware stores, lumber yards and garden centers, whose revenues are included in the Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers Subsector (444) of the Retail Trade Sector of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), the standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy. The total annual revenue reported for businesses included in NAICS 444 in 2014 was $328 billion, which represented an increase of 5.1% over the amount reported for the same category in 2013. The total annual revenue reported for businesses included in NAICS 444 in 2013 was $312 billion, which represented an increase of 6.0% over the amount reported for the same category in 2012.

NAICS 444 represents less than half of what we consider the total market for our products and services. The broader market in which Lowe’s operates includes home-related sales through a variety of companies beyond those in NAICS 444. These consist of other companies in the retail sector, including mass retailers, home furnishings stores, and online retailers, as well as wholesalers that provide home-related products and services to homeowners, businesses, and the government. Based on our analysis of the most recent comprehensive data available, we estimate the size of the U.S. home improvement market at $690 billion in 2014, comprised of $520 billion of product sales and $170 billion of installed labor sales. That compares with $640 billion total market sales in 2013, comprised of $480 billion of product sales and $160 billion of installed labor sales.

There are many variables that affect consumer demand for the home improvement products and services Lowe’s offers. Key indicators we monitor include real disposable personal income, employment, home prices, and housing turnover. We also monitor demographic and societal trends that shape home improvement industry growth.

•Real disposable personal income is projected to grow at a stronger pace in 2015 than in 2014. Real disposable personal income is forecasted to increase 3.5% in calendar 2015, up from the 2.5% gain recorded in 2014, based on the March 2015 Blue Chip Economic Indicators®. *

*Blue Chip Economic Indicators® (ISSN: 0193-4600) is published monthly by Aspen Publishers, 76 Ninth Avenue, New York, NY 10011, a division of Wolters Kluwer Law and Business. Printed in the U.S.A.

4
•The average unemployment rate for 2015 is forecasted to decline to 5.4%, according to the March 2015 Blue Chip Economic Indicators, which would be an improvement from the 6.2% average in 2014. The unemployment rate should continue to trend lower as the job market continues to expand at a moderate pace.

•Recent evidence suggests that home prices will continue to increase. In 2014, home price appreciation improved to an estimated 5.7%, according to the Federal Housing Finance Agency index. Economists generally expect the rate of home price growth to moderate in 2015 but to remain positive.

•Housing turnover decreased 2.8% in 2014 after a 9.0% increase in 2013, according to The National Association of Realtors and U.S. Census Bureau. Growth in 2014 was restrained by an increase in mortgage rates and harsh winter weather. Turnover is generally expected to increase in 2015, supported by a strengthening jobs market, rising incomes and historically low mortgage rates.

These indicators are important to our business because they signal a customer's willingness to engage in home maintenance, repair, and upgrade projects and favorably impact income available to purchase our products and services. Currently, these indicators suggest moderately improving consumer demand for the home improvement products and services we sell. 

Our Competition

The home improvement retailing business includes a broad competitive landscape. We compete with other home improvement warehouse chains and lumberyards in most of our trade areas. We also compete with traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply retailers. In addition, we compete with general merchandise retailers, warehouse clubs, and online and other specialty retailers. Location of stores continues to be a key competitive factor in our industry; however, the increasing use of technology and the simplicity of online shopping also underscore the importance of omni-channel capabilities as a competitive factor. We differentiate ourselves from our competitors by providing better customer experiences that make us the project authority while delivering value to our customers. See further discussion of competition in Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Products and Services

Our Products

Product Selection

To meet customers’ varying home improvement needs, we offer a complete line of products for maintenance, repair, remodeling, and decorating. We offer home improvement products in the following categories: Kitchens & Appliances; Lumber & Building Materials; Tools & Hardware; Fashion Fixtures; Rough Plumbing & Electrical; Lawn & Garden; Seasonal Living; Paint; Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning; Flooring; Millwork; and Outdoor Power Equipment. A typical Lowe's home improvement store stocks approximately 36,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of additional items available through our Special Order Sales system, Lowes.com, Lowes.ca, and ATGstores.com. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years.

We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise complemented by our selection of private brands. In addition, we are dedicated to ensuring the products we sell are sourced in a socially responsible, efficient, and cost effective manner.

National Brand-Name Merchandise

In many product categories, customers look for a familiar and trusted national brand to instill confidence in their purchase. Each Lowe’s home improvement store carries a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise such as Whirlpool® appliances and water heaters, GE®, LG®, and Samsung® appliances, Stainmaster® carpets, Valspar® paints and stains, Pella® windows and doors, Sylvania® light bulbs, Dewalt® power tools, Owens Corning® roofing, Johns Manville® insulation, James Hardie® fiber cement siding, Husqvarna® outdoor power equipment, Werner® ladders, and many more. In 2014, we added brand name merchandise such as Henry® coatings, Hubbell® wiring devices, GRK Fasteners™, and Progress® Lighting to our portfolio. Our merchandise selection provides the retail and Pro customer a one-stop shop for a wide variety of national brand-name merchandise needed to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance, or construction projects.

Private Brands

Private brands are an important element of our overall portfolio, helping to provide significant value and coordinated style across core categories. We sell private brands in several product categories including Tools & Hardware, Seasonal Living, 

5
Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning, Paint, Fashion Fixtures, Flooring, Millwork, Rough Plumbing & Electrical, and Lumber & Building Materials. Some of Lowe’s most important private brands include Kobalt® tools, allen+roth® home décor products, Blue Hawk® home improvement products, Project Source® basic value products, Portfolio® lighting products, Garden Treasures® lawn and patio products, Utilitech® electrical and utility products, Reliabilt® doors and windows, Aquasource® faucets, sinks and toilets, Harbor Breeze® ceiling fans, Top Choice® lumber products and Iris® home automation and management products.

Supply Chain

We source our products from over 7,000 vendors worldwide with no single vendor accounting for more than 6% of total purchases. We believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products. Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for customers and improve our gross margin.

To efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate 15 highly-automated Regional Distribution Centers (RDC) in the United States. Through our RDCs, products are received from vendors, stored and picked, or cross-docked, and then shipped to our retail locations or directly to customers. On average, each domestic RDC serves approximately 115 stores. We also lease and operate a distribution facility to serve our Canadian stores. Additionally, we have a service agreement with a third party logistics provider to manage a distribution facility to serve our stores in Mexico.

In addition to the RDCs, we also operate coastal holding facilities, transload facilities, and flatbed distribution centers. The flatbed distribution centers distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, pipe, siding, ladders, and building materials. Collectively, our facilities enable our import and e-commerce, as well as parcel post eligible products, to get to their destination as efficiently as possible. Most parcel post items can be ordered by a customer and delivered within two business days at standard shipping rates.

On average, in fiscal 2014, approximately 80% of the total dollar amount of stock merchandise we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to our stores from vendors.

Our Services

Installed Sales

We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with Flooring, Millwork and Kitchens & Appliances accounting for the majority of installed sales. Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products are efficiently executed. Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 8% of total sales in fiscal 2014.

Extended Protection Plans and Repair Services

We offer extended protection plans in Kitchens & Appliances, Tools & Hardware, Outdoor Power Equipment, Seasonal Living, and Rough Plumbing. Lowe’s Protection Plans provide customers with product protection that enhances or extends coverage previously offered by the manufacturer’s warranty. We provide in-warranty and out-of-warranty repair services for major appliances, outdoor power equipment, tools, grills, fireplaces, and water heaters through our stores or in the home through our Lowe’s Authorized Service Repair Network. We offer replacement plans in products in these categories priced below $200. Our contact center takes customers' calls, assesses the problems, and facilitates a resolution, making after-sales service easier for our customers because we manage the entire process.

Selling Channels

We are continuing our progress towards becoming an omni-channel retail company, which allows our customers to move from channel to channel with simple and seamless transitions even within the same transaction. For example, for many projects, more than half of our customers conduct research online before making an in-store purchase. For purchases made on Lowes.com, approximately 60% are picked up in-store, 10% are delivered from a store, and 30% are parcel shipped. Regardless of the channels through which customers choose to engage with us, we strive to provide them with a seamless experience across channels and an endless aisle of products, enabled by our flexible fulfillment capabilities. Our ability to sell products in-store, online, on-site, or through our contact centers speaks to our ability to leverage our existing infrastructure with the omni-channel capabilities we are introducing.

6
In-Store

Our 1,766 home improvement stores are generally open seven days per week and average approximately 112,000 square feet of retail selling space, plus approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling space. In addition, we operate 74 Orchard stores located throughout California and Oregon that also serve home improvement customers. Our home improvement stores offer similar products and services, with certain variations based on local market factors; however, Orchard stores are primarily focused on paint, repair, and backyard products. We continue to develop and implement tools to make our sales associates more efficient and to integrate our order management and fulfillment processes. Our home improvement stores have Wi-Fi capabilities that provide customers with internet access, making information available quickly to further simplify the shopping experience. 

Online

Through Lowes.com, Lowes.ca, ATGstores.com and mobile applications, we seek to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience, online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online buying guides and how-to videos and other information. These tools help consumers make more informed purchasing decisions and give them increased confidence to undertake home improvement projects. In 2014, sales through our online selling channels, which include Lowes.com, Lowes.ca and ATGstores.com, accounted for approximately 2.5% of our total sales. We enable customers to choose from a variety of fulfillment options, including buying online and picking up in-store as well as delivery or parcel shipment to their homes.

On-Site

We have on-site specialists available to retail and Pro customers to assist them in selecting products and services for their projects. Our Account Executives ProServices meet with Pro customers at their place of business or on a job site and leverage stores within the area to ensure we meet customer needs for products and resources. Our Project Specialist Exteriors (PSE) program is available in all Lowe’s stores to discuss exterior projects such as roofing, siding, fencing, and windows, whose characteristics lend themselves to an in-home consultative sales approach. In addition, our Project Specialist Interiors (PSI) program is available in seven of our 14 regions to provide similar consultative services on interior projects such as kitchens and bathrooms. 

Contact Centers

Lowe’s operates two contact centers which are located in Wilkesboro, NC and Albuquerque, NM. In addition, we are opening an additional facility in Indianapolis, IN. These contact centers help enable an omni-channel experience by providing the ability to tender sales, coordinate deliveries, manage after-sale installations, facilitate repair services for Appliances and Outdoor Power Equipment, and answer general customer questions via phone, e-mail, letters, or social media.

Employees

As of January 30, 2015, we employed approximately 175,000 full-time and 91,000 part-time employees. Our employees in Mexico are subject to collective bargaining agreements. No other employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with employees to be good.

Seasonality and Working Capital

The retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business is, to some extent, seasonal. Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our second fiscal quarter (May, June and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fourth fiscal quarter (November, December and January). Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fourth fiscal quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fourth fiscal quarter sales volumes. We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, as needed. For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Intellectual Property

The name “Lowe’s” is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary has various additional trademarks, trade names and service marks, many of which are used in our private brand program. The subsidiary also maintains various Internet domain names that are important to our business, and we also own registered and unregistered copyrights. In addition, we maintain patent portfolios related to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect certain innovations that we incorporate into our products, services, or business operations.

7
Environmental Stewardship 

Lowe’s recognizes how efficient operations can help protect the environment and our bottom line. We examine our operations regularly to deliver energy efficiency, reduce fuel consumption, and minimize waste generation through increased recycling. We also install technology that will help us operate our facilities more efficiently and environmentally responsibly. For example, our RDC in Rome, GA was designed to use high-efficiency, light-emitting diode (LED) fixtures, and our Pittston RDC was retrofitted with interior and exterior LED fixtures, significantly reducing this facility's total energy use.

We strive to deliver products to our stores in a fuel-efficient and an environmentally responsible manner through participation in the SmartWay® Transport Partnership, an innovative program launched by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in 2004 that promotes cleaner, more fuel-efficient transportation options. Lowe’s received a 2014 SmartWay Excellence Award from the EPA, our sixth consecutive SmartWay honor, for our commitment to environmental excellence in freight management operations and reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and other harmful pollutants. We have also increased shipping of products by rail and increased the efficiency of truckload shipments to and from our RDCs. 

We continue to take steps to improve our recycling programs and reduce the amount of waste we generate. Through these efforts, we are able to reduce our disposal costs and minimize the impact on the environment of the operation of our stores and other facilities. We also offer convenient recycling for our customers at many of our stores for items such as rechargeable batteries, plastic bags and compact fluorescent light bulbs.

We annually track our carbon footprint and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent nonprofit organization hosting the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. To further reduce our carbon footprint, we incorporate energy-efficient technologies and architectural systems into new stores and retrofits of existing stores, such as energy-efficient lighting, white membrane cool roofs, and HVAC units that meet or exceed ENERGY STAR qualifications. We also participate in demand response programs by voluntarily reducing our lighting and HVAC loads during peak demand periods to support electric grid reliability. 

Additionally, we continue to focus on helping consumers reduce their energy and water use and their environmental footprint while saving money when they purchase our products and services. We offer a wide selection of environmentally responsible and energy-efficient products for the home, including ENERGY STAR® appliances, WaterSense® labeled toilets, paint with no volatile organic compounds (VOC), and indoor and outdoor LED lighting. Through our in-home sales specialists, we offer customers installation of insulation and energy efficient windows.

For more information on Lowe’s environmental efforts, please visit Lowes.com/SocialResponsibility.

Compliance with Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business in a variety of ways, including indirectly through increased energy costs, as utilities, refineries, and other major emitters of greenhouse gases are subjected to additional regulation or legislation that seeks to better control greenhouse gas emissions. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2015 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with such laws or regulations.

Reaching Out / Our Community

Lowe’s has a long and proud history of supporting local communities through public education and community improvement projects, beginning with the creation of the Lowe’s Charitable and Educational Foundation in 1957. In 2014, Lowe’s and the Lowe’s Charitable and Educational Foundation contributed $28 million to schools and community organizations in the United States, Canada, and Mexico. 

Our commitment to improving educational opportunities is best exemplified by our signature education grant program, Lowe’s Toolbox for Education®. The program has benefited more than five million schoolchildren since 2006, funding improvements at 1,103 schools across the United States in 2014. 

For more than a decade, we’ve been working with national nonprofit partners to strengthen and stabilize neighborhoods in the communities we serve. In 2014, Lowe’s contributed more than $6 million and teamed with Habitat for Humanity and Rebuilding Together to bring housing solutions and hope to families across the country. We also continued to build on our 

8
longstanding partnerships with SkillsUSA, the Boys & Girls Clubs of America, and Keep America Beautiful to improve communities and build tomorrow’s leaders.  

Lowe’s is also committed to helping residents of the communities we serve by being there when we’re needed most - when a natural disaster threatens and in the recovery that follows. In 2014, Lowe’s committed more than $2 million and mobilized hundreds of Lowe’s Heroes employee volunteers to help families recover from disasters in 12 states from the Pacific Northwest to New York, while helping others prepare for the threat of hurricanes in Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, New Jersey, and Texas.

For more information on Lowe’s partnerships and latest community improvement projects, visit Lowes.com/SocialResponsibility and LowesInTheCommunity.tumblr.com.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our internet website at www.Lowes.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may also read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Item 1A - Risk Factors