Part I  

 Item 1. Business.  

Overview.  

Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. The Company is a financial holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). The Company conducts its business from its headquarters in and around New York City, its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. At December 31, 2010, the Company had 62,542 employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

On December 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a change in the Company’s fiscal year-end from November 30 to December 31 of each year, beginning January 1, 2009. As a result of the change, the Company had a one-month transition reporting period in December 2008. Financial information concerning the Company, its business segments and geographic regions for each of the 12 months ended December 31, 2010 (“2010”), December 31, 2009 (“2009”), November 30, 2008 (“fiscal 2008”) and the one month ended December 31, 2008 is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.  

Available Information.  

The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may read and copy any document the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The Company’s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.  

The Company’s internet site is www.morganstanley.com. You can access the Company’s Investor Relations webpage at www.morganstanley.com/about/ir. The Company makes available free of charge, on or through its Investor Relations webpage, its proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC’s internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of the Company’s equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.  

The Company has a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access information about the Company’s corporate governance at www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance. The Company posts the following on its Corporate Governance webpage:  

   •    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation;  

   •    Amended and Restated Bylaws;  

   •    Charters for its Audit Committee; Internal Audit Subcommittee; Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee; Nominating and Governance Committee; and Risk Committee;  

1  

Table of Contents 

   •    Corporate Governance Policies;  

   •    Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors;  

   •    Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders;  

   •    Policy Regarding Corporate Political Contributions;  

   •    Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan;  

   •    Code of Ethics and Business Conduct;  

   •    Code of Conduct; and  

   •    Integrity Hotline information.  

Morgan Stanley’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Finance Director and Controller. The Company will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC (“NYSE”) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on the Company’s internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

Business Segments.  

The Company is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. A summary of the activities of each of the business segments follows.  

Institutional Securities provides capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; and investment activities.  

Global Wealth Management Group, which includes the Company’s 51% interest in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC (“MSSB”), provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services and engages in fixed income principal trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading or investments in such securities.  

Asset Management provides a broad array of investment strategies that span the risk/return spectrum across geographies, asset classes and public and private markets to a diverse group of clients across the institutional and intermediary channels as well as high net worth clients.  

Institutional Securities.  

The Company provides financial advisory and capital-raising services to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients globally, primarily through wholly owned subsidiaries that include Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (“MS&Co.”), Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc and Morgan Stanley Asia Limited, and certain joint venture entities that include Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. These entities also conduct sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and agent, and provide related financing services on behalf of institutional investors.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Investment Banking and Corporate Lending Activities.  

Capital Raising. The Company manages and participates in public offerings and private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. The Company is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other equity-related securities, including convertible securities and American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”). The Company is also a leading underwriter of fixed income securities, including investment grade debt, non-investment grade instruments, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, tax-exempt securities and commercial paper and other short-term securities.  

Financial Advisory Services. The Company provides corporate and other institutional clients globally with advisory services on key strategic matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, corporate restructurings, recapitalizations, spin-offs, exchange offers and leveraged buyouts and takeover defenses as well as shareholder relations. The Company also provides advice concerning rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk management strategies and financial planning. In addition, the Company furnishes advice and services regarding project financings and provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale, leasing and financing of real estate.  

Corporate Lending. The Company provides loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing, to selected corporate clients through its subsidiaries, including Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A (“MSBNA”). These loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated and/or secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated, hedged or traded by the Company*. The borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade.  

Sales and Trading Activities.  

The Company conducts sales, trading, financing and market-making activities on securities and futures exchanges and in over-the-counter (“OTC”) markets around the world. The Company’s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities include Equity Trading; Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies; Commodities; Clients and Services; and Investments.  

Equity Trading. The Company acts as principal (including as a market-maker) and agent in executing transactions globally in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, global depositary receipts and exchange-traded funds.  

The Company’s equity derivatives sales, trading and market-making activities cover equity-related products globally, including equity swaps, options, warrants and futures overlying individual securities, indices and baskets of securities and other equity-related products. The Company also issues and makes a principal market in equity-linked products to institutional and individual investors.  

Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies. The Company trades, invests and makes markets in fixed income securities and related products globally, including, among other products, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt, distressed debt, bank loans, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, convertible bonds, collateralized debt obligations, credit, currency, interest rate and other fixed income-linked notes, securities issued by structured investment vehicles, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate-loan products, municipal securities, preferred stock and commercial paper, money-market and other short-term securities. The Company is a primary dealer of U.S. federal government securities and a member of the selling groups that distribute various U.S. agency and other debt securities. The Company is also a primary dealer or market-maker of government securities in numerous European, Asian and emerging market countries.  

The Company trades, invests and makes markets globally in listed futures and OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans,  

 * Revenues and expenses associated with the trading of syndicated loans are included in “Sales and Trading Activities.”  

3  

Table of Contents 

 credit indexes, asset-backed security indexes, property indexes, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products.  

The Company trades, invests and makes markets in major foreign currencies, such as the British pound, Canadian dollar, euro, Japanese yen and Swiss franc, as well as in emerging markets currencies. The Company trades these currencies on a principal basis in the spot, forward, option and futures markets.  

Through the use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, the Company acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. The Company also provides financing to customers for commercial and residential real estate loan products and other securitizable asset classes. In addition, the Company engages in principal securities lending with clients, institutional lenders and other broker-dealers.  

The Company advises on investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in their debt repurchases and tax planning. The Company structures debt securities, derivatives and other instruments with risk/return factors designed to suit client objectives, including using repackaged asset and other structured vehicles through which clients can restructure asset portfolios to provide liquidity or reconfigure risk profiles.  

Commodities. The Company invests and makes markets in the spot, forward, physical derivatives and futures markets in several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. The Company is a market-maker in exchange-traded options and futures and OTC options and swaps on commodities, and offers counterparties hedging programs relating to production, consumption, reserve/inventory management and structured transactions, including energy-contract securitizations and monetization. The Company is an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and owns electricity-generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe.  

The Company owns TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business, and owns a minority interest in Heidmar Holdings LLC, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services.  

Clients and Services. The Company provides financing services, including prime brokerage, which offers, among other services, consolidated clearance, settlement, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services to clients trading multiple asset classes. In addition, the Company’s institutional distribution and sales activities are overseen and coordinated through Clients and Services.  

Investments. The Company from time to time makes investments that represent business facilitation or other investing activities. Such investments are typically strategic investments undertaken by the Company to facilitate core business activities. From time to time, the Company may also make investments and capital commitments to public and private companies, funds and other entities.  

The Company sponsors and manages investment vehicles and separate accounts for clients seeking exposure to private equity, infrastructure, mezzanine lending and real estate-related and other alternative investments. The Company may also invest in and provide capital to such investment vehicles. See also “Asset Management” herein.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

The Company’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform that supports Institutional Securities sales and trading activity, including post-execution trade processing and related internal controls over activity from trade entry through settlement and custody, such as asset servicing. This is done for transactions in listed and OTC transactions in commodities, equity and fixed  

4  

Table of Contents 

 income securities, including both primary and secondary trading, as well as listed, OTC and structured derivatives in markets around the world. This activity is undertaken through the Company’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Global Wealth Management Group.  

The Company’s Global Wealth Management Group, which includes the Company’s 51% interest in MSSB, provides comprehensive financial services to clients through a network of more than 18,000 global representatives in approximately 850 locations at year-end. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s Global Wealth Management Group had $1,669 billion in client assets.  

Clients.  

Global Wealth Management Group professionals serve individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions with an emphasis on ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. Global representatives are located in branches across the U.S. and provide solutions designed to accommodate individual investment objectives, risk tolerance and liquidity needs. Call centers are available to meet the needs of emerging affluent clients. Outside the U.S., Global Wealth Management Group offers financial services to clients in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Australia and Latin America.  

Products and Services.  

The Company’s Global Wealth Management Group provides clients with a comprehensive array of financial solutions, including products and services from the Company, Citigroup Inc. (“Citi”) and third-party providers, such as insurance companies and mutual fund families. Global Wealth Management Group provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various types of investments, including equities, options, futures, foreign currencies, precious metals, fixed income securities, mutual funds, structured products, alternative investments, unit investment trusts, managed futures, separately managed accounts and mutual fund asset allocation programs. Global Wealth Management Group also engages in fixed income principal trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading or investments in such securities. In addition, Global Wealth Management Group offers education savings programs, financial and wealth planning services, and annuity and other insurance products.  

In addition, Global Wealth Management Group offers its clients access to several cash management services through various affiliates, including deposits, debit cards, electronic bill payments and check writing, as well as lending products, including securities based lending, mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. Global Wealth Management Group also provides trust and fiduciary services, offers access to cash management and commercial credit solutions to qualified small- and medium-sized businesses in the U.S., and provides individual and corporate retirement solutions, including individual retirement accounts and 401(k) plans and U.S. and global stock plan services to corporate executives and businesses.  

Global Wealth Management Group provides clients a variety of ways to establish a relationship and conduct business, including brokerage accounts with transaction-based pricing and investment advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

As a result of MSSB, most of the operations and technology supporting the Global Wealth Management Group are provided either by the Company’s Operations and Information Technology departments or by Citi. Pursuant to contractual agreements, the Company and Citi perform various broker-dealer related functions, such as execution and clearing of brokerage transactions, margin lending and custody of client assets. For the Company,  

5  

Table of Contents 

 these activities are undertaken through its own facilities, through memberships in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties. The Company and Citi provide certain other services and systems to support the Global Wealth Management Group through transition services agreements with MSSB.  

Asset Management.  

The Company’s Asset Management business segment is one of the largest global investment management organizations of any full-service financial services firm and offers clients a diverse array of equity, fixed income and alternative investments and merchant banking strategies. Portfolio managers located in the U.S., Europe and Asia manage investment products ranging from money market funds to equity and fixed income strategies, alternative investment and merchant banking products in developed and emerging markets across geographies and market cap ranges.  

The Company offers a range of alternative investment, real estate investing and merchant banking products for institutional investors and high net worth individuals. The Company’s alternative investments platform includes hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and portable alpha strategies. The Company’s alternative investments platform also includes minority stakes in Lansdowne Partners, Avenue Capital Group and Traxis Partners LP. The Company’s real estate and merchant banking businesses include its real estate investing business, private equity funds, corporate mezzanine debt investing group and infrastructure investing group. The Company typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, its alternative investment, real estate and merchant banking funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds with subscribing investors contributing the majority.  

On June 1, 2010, as part of a restructuring of the Company’s Asset Management business segment, the Company sold substantially all of its retail asset management business, including Van Kampen Investments, Inc., to Invesco Ltd. This transaction allows the Company’s Asset Management business segment to focus on its institutional and intermediary client base.  

Institutional Investors.  

The Company provides investment management strategies and products to institutional investors worldwide, including corporations, pension plans, endowments, foundations, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies and banks through a broad range of pooled vehicles and separate accounts. Additionally, the Company provides sub-advisory services to various unaffiliated financial institutions and intermediaries. A Global Sales and Client Service team is engaged in business development and relationship management for consultants to help serve institutional clients.  

Intermediary Clients and Individual Investors.  

The Company offers open-end and alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies, financial planners and other intermediaries. Closed-end funds managed by the Company are available to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers. The Company also distributes mutual funds through numerous retirement plan platforms. Internationally, the Company distributes traditional investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through non-proprietary distributors and distributes alternative investment products through affiliated broker-dealers and banks.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

The Company’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide or oversee the process and technology platform required to support its asset management business. Support activities include transfer agency, mutual fund accounting and administration, transaction processing and certain fiduciary services on  

6  

Table of Contents 

 behalf of institutional, intermediary and high net worth clients. These activities are undertaken through the Company’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Research.  

The Company’s research department (“Research”) coordinates globally across all of the Company’s businesses. Research consists of economists, strategists and industry analysts who engage in equity and fixed income research activities and produce reports and studies on the U.S. and global economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses, individual companies and industry developments. Research examines worldwide trends covering numerous industries and individual companies, the majority of which are located outside the U.S.; provides analysis and forecasts relating to economic and monetary developments that affect matters such as interest rates, foreign currencies, securities, derivatives and economic trends; and provides analytical support and publishes reports on asset-backed securities and the markets in which such securities are traded and data are disseminated to investors through third-party distributors, proprietary internet sites such as Client Link and the Company’s sales forces.  

Competition.  

All aspects of the Company’s businesses are highly competitive, and the Company expects them to remain so. The Company competes in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent in all aspects of its business segments. The Company’s competitive position depends on its reputation and the quality and consistency of its long-term investment performance. The Company’s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. The Company competes with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. Such changes could result in the Company’s remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. See also “Supervision and Regulation” and “Risk Factors” herein.  

Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.  

The Company’s competitive position depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. The Company competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with others on a regional or product basis.  

The Company’s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally dependent on the Company’s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate clients may request that the Company provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities, and such requests are expected to increase in the future.  

It is possible that competition may become even more intense as the Company continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. Many of these firms have greater capital than the Company and have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. The complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for the Company to remain competitive.  

7  

Table of Contents 

The Company has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. It is possible that the Company will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.  

Asset Management.  

Competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including the Company’s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. The Company’s alternative investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and hedge funds, compete with similar products offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers.  

Supervision and Regulation.  

As a major financial services firm, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where it operates. Moreover, in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and around the world, are in the process of adopting and implementing a wide range of reforms that will result in major changes to the way the Company is regulated and conducts its business. It will take some time for the comprehensive effects of these reforms to emerge and be understood.  

Regulatory Outlook.  

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. While certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, other portions will be effective only following extended transition periods. At this time, it is difficult to assess fully the impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on the Company and on the financial services industry generally. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will be accomplished through numerous rulemakings by multiple governmental agencies. The Dodd-Frank Act also mandates the preparation of studies on a wide range of issues, which could lead to additional legislation or regulatory changes.  

In addition, legislative and regulatory initiatives continue outside the U.S. which may also affect the Company’s business and operations. For example, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) has issued new capital, leverage and liquidity standards, known as “Basel III,” which U.S. banking regulators are expected to introduce in the U.S. The Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee are also developing standards designed to apply to systemically important financial institutions, such as the Company. In addition, initiatives are under way in the European Union and Japan, among other jurisdictions, that would require centralized clearing, reporting and recordkeeping with respect to various kinds of financial transactions and other regulatory requirements that are in some cases similar to those required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  

It is likely that the year 2011 and subsequent years will see further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which the Company operates, though it is difficult to predict which further reform initiatives will become law, how such reforms will be implemented or the exact impact they will have on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period.  

Financial Holding Company.  

The Company has operated as a bank holding company and financial holding company under the BHC Act since September 2008. Effective July 22, 2010, as a bank holding company with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, the Company became subject to the new systemic risk regime established by the Dodd-Frank Act. It is not yet clear how the regulators will apply the heightened prudential standards on systemically important firms such as the Company.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Consolidated Supervision.  

On the bank holding company level, the Company is subject to the comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve also gains heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all of the Company’s subsidiaries. In addition, a new consumer protection agency, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, will have exclusive rulemaking and primary enforcement and examination authority over the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer financial laws to the extent applicable.  

Because the Company is subject to the systemic risk regime, it is now also subject to the expanded systemic risk powers of the Federal Reserve, including the Federal Reserve’s rulemaking in the area of heightened prudential standards and other requirements under the systemic risk regime. A new systemic risk oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”), can recommend prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements to the Federal Reserve with applicability to financial institutions such as the Company, and must approve any finding by the Federal Reserve that a systemically important financial institution poses a grave threat to financial stability and must undertake mitigating actions. The Council is also empowered to designate systemically important payment, clearing and settlement activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and regulation, and, assisted by the new Office of Financial Research within the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”) (established by the Dodd-Frank Act), can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including the Company. See also “—Systemic Risk Regime” below.  

Scope of Permitted Activities. As a financial holding company, Morgan Stanley is currently able to engage in any activity that is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity, as defined in accordance with the BHC Act. Unless otherwise required by the Federal Reserve, the Company is permitted to begin any new financial activity, and generally may acquire any company engaged in any financial activity, as long as it provides after–the–fact notice of such new activity or investment to the Federal Reserve.  

The Company is, however, subject to prior notice or approval requirements of the Federal Reserve in respect of certain types of transactions, including for the acquisition of more than 5% of any class of voting stock of a U.S. depository institution or depository institution holding company, and, since July 2010, also for certain acquisitions of non-bank financial companies with $10 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The Company’s ability, as a financial holding company, to engage in certain merger transactions could also be impacted by approval requirements on a potentially broader set of transactions that will take effect in July 2011, by a new financial stability factor the Federal Reserve must consider in approving certain transactions, and by concentration limits, to be implemented by October 2011, limiting mergers and acquisitions resulting in control of more than 10% of all consolidated financial liabilities in the U.S. The Dodd-Frank Act will also place heightened requirements on the Company’s ability to acquire control of a bank.  

The BHC Act gave the Company two years after becoming a financial holding company to conform its existing non-financial activities and investments to the requirements of the BHC Act, with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of up to five years. The Company has requested and obtained an extension in order to conform a limited set of activities and make certain divestments. The BHC Act also grandfathers any “activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,” provided that the Company was engaged in “any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the United States” and provided that certain other conditions that are within the Company’s reasonable control are satisfied. If the Federal Reserve were to determine that any of the Company’s commodities activities did not qualify for the BHC Act grandfather exemption, then the Company would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the BHC Act by the end of any extensions of the grace period. The Company does not believe that any such required divestment would have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.  

In order to maintain its status as a financial holding company, Morgan Stanley must satisfy certain requirements, including the requirement that its depository institution subsidiaries remain well capitalized and well managed.  

    9      

Table of Contents 

 Under current regulations implemented by the Federal Reserve, if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company no longer meets certain capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the parent financial holding company and place limitations on its ability to make acquisitions or otherwise conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, as a last resort if the deficiencies persist, the Federal Reserve may order a financial holding company to cease the conduct of or to divest those businesses engaged in activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, beginning in July 2011, the financial holding company status will also depend on remaining well capitalized and well managed at the holding company level. See also “—Capital Standards” below.  

Current regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, the Federal Reserve must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies.  

Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule. A provision of the Dodd-Frank Act (the “Volcker Rule”) will, over time, prohibit the Company and its subsidiaries from engaging in “proprietary trading,” as defined by the regulators. The Volcker Rule will also require banking entities to either restructure or unwind certain relationships with “hedge funds” and “private equity funds,” as such terms are defined in the Volcker Rule and by the regulators. Regulators are required to issue regulations implementing the substantive Volcker Rule provisions during the course of 2011. The Volcker Rule is expected to become effective in July 2012, and banking entities will then have a two-year transition period to come into compliance with the Volcker Rule, subject to certain available extensions.  

While full compliance with the Volcker Rule will likely only be required by July 2014, subject to extensions, the Company’s business and operations are expected to be impacted earlier, as operating models, investments and legal structures must be reviewed and gradually adjusted to the new legal environment. The Company has begun a review of its private equity fund, hedge fund and proprietary trading operations; however, it is too early to predict how the Volcker Rule may impact the Company’s businesses.  

Systemic Risk Regime. The Dodd-Frank Act establishes a new regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions deemed to pose systemic risks. Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as the Company, became automatically subject to the systemic risk regime in July 2010.  

Under the systemic risk regime, the Federal Reserve must establish enhanced risk-based capital, leverage capital and liquidity requirements. These requirements have to be more stringent than standards for institutions that do not pose systemic risks. Those more broadly applicable U.S. capital and leverage standards will become significantly more onerous, and will be supplemented by liquidity requirements, such as those promulgated by the Basel Committee. The enhanced capital, leverage and liquidity standards under the systemic risk regime are expected to place additional demands, beyond those under Basel III, on systemically important financial institutions including the Company. The exact form, scale and timing of introduction of any such enhanced requirements are unclear and will have to be established by rulemaking. The Financial Stability Board has also announced that it will, together with national authorities, determine in 2011 which financial institutions are “clearly systemic to the global financial system” (“G-SIFIs”), and recommend an additional degree of loss absorbency for these institutions. A peer review council will be established with the aim of ensuring consistent application of measures across G-SIFIs in light of the risks they pose.  

The systemic risk regime calls for the establishment of extensive, rapid and orderly resolution plans (“resolution plans”). The establishment and maintenance of resolution plans requires systemically important financial institutions, including the Company, to analyze and provide substantial amounts of information regarding their legal entity structure, assets, liabilities, security arrangements and major counterparties and could entail significant restructuring of operations. The Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) will review resolution plans for adequacy and, if they are found to be inadequate, can require changes in  

      10    

Table of Contents 

 business operations and corporate structure, impose more stringent requirements or restrictions, including more stringent capital requirements or restrictions on growth, and may require divestments of operations or assets as a last resort. The specific requirements of resolution plans will be developed through Federal Reserve and FDIC rulemaking.  

Systemically important financial institutions are made subject to an early remediation regime to address financial distress, which will include measures ranging from limits on capital distributions, acquisitions and asset growth, to capital restoration plans and capital-raising requirements, and the details of which will be established by rulemaking. It is currently unclear how regulators will define “financial distress,” thereby determining at what level of capital deficiency or other signs of distress the foregoing restrictions would set in. In addition, for institutions posing a grave threat to U.S. financial stability, the Federal Reserve, upon Council vote, must limit that institution’s ability to merge, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities or, as a last resort, require it to dispose of assets. Upon a grave threat determination by the Council, the Federal Reserve must issue rules that require financial institutions subject to the systemic risk regime to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15-to-1 if the Council considers it necessary to mitigate the risk.  

Under the systemic risk regime, the Company will be required to conduct regular internal stress tests, and the Company must also submit to annual stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve, a summary of which will be published. Implementing regulation must be issued by January 2012. The systemic risk regime also calls for heightened risk management standards and credit exposure reporting and, effective by July 2013 at the earliest, for limits on the concentration of risk and credit exposure to non-affiliates. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish further standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, required risk committee of the board, and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures.  

See also “—Capital Standards” and “—Orderly Liquidation Authority” below.  

Capital Standards. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company and evaluates its compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company’s national bank subsidiaries.  

Current U.S. risk-based capital and leverage guidelines require the Company’s capital-to-assets ratios to meet certain minimum standards. Under the current guidelines, in order for the Company to remain a financial holding company its bank subsidiaries must qualify as “well capitalized” and “well managed” by maintaining a total capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of at least 10% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6%. Beginning in July 2011, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the capital standards currently applicable to the Company’s bank subsidiaries will apply directly to the Company, as a holding company, and require it to remain “well capitalized” and “well managed” to maintain its status as a financial holding company. Under current standards, the Federal Reserve may require the Company and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk-based and leverage capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. The Company expects that the new “well capitalized” requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act will similarly be established in excess of minimum capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies.  

The Company calculates its capital ratios and risk-weighted assets in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Federal Reserve. These standards are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as “Basel I.” At December 31, 2010, the Company was in compliance with Basel I capital requirements. See also Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

In December 2007, the U.S. banking regulators published final U.S. implementing regulation incorporating the Basel II Accord, which requires internationally active banking organizations, as well as certain of their U.S. bank  

11  

Table of Contents 

 subsidiaries, to implement Basel II standards over the next several years. The timeline set out in December 2007 for the implementation of Basel II in the U.S. may be impacted by the developments concerning Basel III described below. Starting July 2010, the Company has been reporting on a parallel basis under the current regulatory capital regime (Basel I) and Basel II, which, as currently scheduled, will be followed by a three-year transitional period. In addition, under a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, capital standards generally applicable to U.S. banks will serve to establish minimum Tier 1 and total capital requirements more broadly, including for bank holding companies such as the Company that otherwise apply different capital standards set by the Federal Reserve. In effect, those generally applicable capital standards, which are currently based on Basel I standards but may themselves change over time, would serve as a permanent floor to minimum capital requirements calculated under the Basel II standard the Company is currently required to implement, as well as future capital standards.  

Basel III contains new standards that will raise the quality of capital banking institutions must hold, strengthen the risk-weighted asset base and introduce a leverage ratio as a supplemental measure to the risk-based capital ratios. Basel III includes a new capital conservation buffer, which imposes a common equity requirement above the new minimum that can be depleted under stress, subject to restrictions on capital distributions, and a new countercyclical buffer, which regulators can activate during periods of excessive credit growth in their jurisdiction. The use of certain capital instruments, such as trust preferred securities, as Tier 1 capital components will be phased out. Basel III also introduces new liquidity measures designed to monitor banking institutions for their ability to meet short-term cash flow needs and to address longer-term structural liquidity mismatches.  

National implementation of Basel III risk-based capital requirements, including by U.S. regulators, will begin in 2013, and many of the requirements will be subject to extended phase-in periods. Once fully implemented, the capital requirements would include a new minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio of 4.5%, a minimum Tier 1 equity ratio of 6%, and the minimum total capital ratio which would remain at 8.0% (plus a 2.5% capital conservation buffer consisting of common equity in addition to these ratios). Despite extended phase-in periods, the Company expects some of the new capital requirements to become relevant sooner. For example, on November 17, 2010, the Federal Reserve announced that it will require large U.S. bank holding companies to submit capital plans that show, among other things, the ability to meet Basel III capital requirements over time, and the Company submitted its capital plan to the Federal Reserve on January 7, 2011 in response to such requirements. The Federal Reserve will evaluate capital plans that include a request to increase common stock dividends, implement stock repurchase programs, or redeem or repurchase capital instruments.  

Concurrently with implementing regulations concerning Basel III, U.S. banking regulators will implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act with effect on capital and related requirements, including heightened capital and liquidity requirements for financial institutions subject to the systemic risk regime, including the Company, as well as a mandate to make capital requirements countercyclical, and for capital requirements to address risks posed by certain activities. Pursuant to a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, over time, trust preferred securities will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital but will qualify only as Tier 2 capital. This change in regulatory capital treatment will be phased in incrementally during a transition period that will start on January 1, 2013 and end on January 1, 2016. This provision of the Dodd-Frank Act is expected to accelerate the phase-in of disqualification of trust preferred securities provided for by Basel III.  

Bank holding companies are also subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the Federal Reserve. Under Federal Reserve rules, the minimum leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies, including the Company, that are considered “strong” under Federal Reserve guidelines or which have implemented the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital measure for market risk. Basel III introduces internationally a leverage ratio that could result in more stringent capital requirements than the current minimum U.S. leverage ratio. Bank holding companies such as the Company, over a period of time will also be required to satisfy, at a minimum, the leverage capital requirements currently in effect for U.S. banks, which will thereafter serve as an effective floor. Financial institutions subject to the systemic risk regime under the Dodd-Frank Act, including the Company, will also be required to meet as yet unspecified heightened prudential standards, including possibly higher leverage capital requirements.  

12  

Table of Contents 

See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

Orderly Liquidation Authority. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, financial companies, including bank holding companies such as Morgan Stanley and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a new orderly liquidation authority. The U.S. Treasury must first make certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations. Absent such U.S. Treasury determinations, Morgan Stanley as a bank holding company would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  

The orderly liquidation authority went into effect in July 2010, but rulemaking is required to render it fully operative. If the Company were subjected to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed receiver, which would give the FDIC considerable rights and powers that it must exercise with the goal of liquidating and winding up the Company, including (i) the FDIC’s right to assign assets and liabilities and transfer some to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (ii) the ability of the FDIC to differentiate among creditors in exercising its cherry-picking powers, including by treating junior creditors better than senior creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (iii) the broad powers given the FDIC to administer the claims process to determine which creditor receives what, and in which order, from assets not transferred to a third party or bridge financial institution.  

The FDIC can provide a broad range of financial assistance for the resolution process, and, if it does so, it must ensure that unsecured creditors bear losses up to the amount they would have suffered in liquidation (or as otherwise determined by the FDIC), and that management or board members of the financial company responsible for the failed condition are removed. Amounts owed to the U.S. are generally given priority over claims of general creditors. In addition, to the extent the FDIC funds the liquidation of a financial company with borrowings from the U.S. Treasury, it is authorized to assess claimants that receive benefits in excess of their claims in a bankruptcy liquidation, as well as systemically important or other large financial institutions, to repay such borrowings.  

A number of creditor rights in the orderly liquidation authority have been modeled after the Bankruptcy Code, and the FDIC must promulgate implementing regulation in a manner that further reduces the gap in treatment between the two regimes and increases legal certainty. However, the orderly resolution authority is untested and differs in material respects from the Bankruptcy Code, including in the broad powers granted to the FDIC as receiver. As a result, the Company cannot exclude the possibility that shareholders, creditors and other counterparties of the Company and similarly situated financial companies will reassess the credit risk posed by the possibility that the Company could be subjected to the orderly liquidation authority, and could seek to be compensated for any perceived risk of greater credit losses in such event.  

In addition to the orderly liquidation authority, the Dodd-Frank Act also eliminates some of the regulatory authorities used in the recent financial crisis to intervene and support individual financial institutions. As a result of these developments, credit rating agencies have announced that they would review financial institutions’ ratings to potentially adjust the previously assumed level of government support as a factor in their ratings. These developments may have potential negative implications for such institutions’ ratings to the extent the credit rating agencies’ assessment of the impact of systemic risk regulation on the assumed level of government support negatively influences the Company’s credit ratings, that in turn could negatively impact the Company’s funding costs. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Ratings” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

Dividends. In addition to certain dividend restrictions that apply by law to certain of the Company’s subsidiaries, as described below, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the Company, MSBNA and other depository institution subsidiaries of the Company, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking  

13  

Table of Contents 

 organization. It is Federal Reserve policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available from the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. It is also Federal Reserve policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine the company’s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, all companies that own or control an insured depository institution will be required to serve as a source of strength to such institution; i.e., be able to provide financial assistance to such institution when it experiences financial distress. Implementing regulations must be issued by July 2012. Like the Federal Reserve policy currently in place, as well as periodic stress tests, the new statutory source of strength requirement could influence the Company’s ability to pay dividends, or require it to provide capital assistance to MSBNA or Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (“MS Private Bank”) (formerly Morgan Stanley Trust FSB) under circumstances under which the Company would not otherwise decide to do so.  

See also “—Capital Standards” above.  

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.  

U.S. Banking Institutions. MSBNA, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers consumer lending and commercial lending services in addition to deposit products. As an FDIC-insured national bank, MSBNA is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC.  

MS Private Bank conducts certain mortgage lending activities primarily for customers of its affiliate retail broker Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC (“MSSB LLC”). MS Private Bank also offers certain deposit products. It changed its charter to a national association on July 1, 2010, and is an FDIC-insured national bank whose activities are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC.  

Morgan Stanley Trust National Association is a non-depository national bank whose activities are limited to fiduciary and custody activities, primarily personal trust and prime brokerage custody services. It is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC. Morgan Stanley Trust National Association is not FDIC-insured.  

Prompt Corrective Action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Current regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as MSBNA or MS Private Bank and not to their parent holding companies, such as Morgan Stanley. The Federal Reserve is, however, subject to limitations, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level. In addition, under the systemic risk regime, the Company will become subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. The Dodd-Frank Act also calls for a study on the effectiveness of, and improvements to, the prompt corrective action regime, which may in the future result in substantial revisions to the prompt corrective action framework.  

Transactions with Affiliates. The Company’s U.S. subsidiary banks are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on any extensions of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions with, any affiliates. These restrictions include limits on the total amount of credit exposure that they may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates, as well as collateral requirements, and they require all such transactions to be made on market terms. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the affiliate transaction limits will be substantially broadened. Implementing rulemaking is called for by July 2012. At that time, the Company’s U.S. banking subsidiaries will also become subject to more onerous lending limits. Both reforms will place limits on the Company’s U.S. banking subsidiaries’ ability to engage in derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions with other affiliates of the Company.  

14  

Table of Contents 

FDIC Regulation. An FDIC–insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. As FDIC-insured depository institutions, MSBNA and MS Private Bank are exposed to each other’s losses. In addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of FDIC insurance. In 2010, the FDIC adopted a restoration plan to replenish the reserve fund over a multi-year period. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, some of the restoration must be paid for exclusively by large depository institutions, including MSBNA, and assessments are calculated using a new methodology that generally favors banks that are mostly funded by deposits.  

Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.  

Broker-Dealer Regulation. The Company’s primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations. In addition, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are registered investment advisers with the SEC. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer’s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators.  

The Dodd-Frank Act includes various provisions that affect the regulation of broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act provides the SEC authority (which the SEC has not yet exercised) to adopt a fiduciary duty applicable to broker-dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail customers and creates a new category of regulation for “municipal advisors,” which are subject to a fiduciary duty with respect to certain activities. In addition, the U.S. Department of Labor has proposed revisions to the regulations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) that, if adopted, would potentially broaden the category of conduct that could be regarded as “investment advice” under ERISA and could subject broker-dealers to ERISA’s fiduciary duty and prohibited transaction rules with respect to a wider range of interactions with their customers. These developments may impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential liabilities. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides the SEC authority (which the SEC also has not exercised) to prohibit or limit the use of mandatory arbitration pre-dispute agreements between a broker-dealer and its customers. If the SEC exercises its authority under this provision, it may materially increase litigation costs.  

Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Federal Reserve’s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under FINRA and other self-regulatory organization rules. In many cases, the Company’s broker-dealer subsidiaries’ margin policies are more stringent than these rules.  

As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of the Company are subject to the SEC’s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Many non-U.S. regulatory authorities and exchanges also have rules relating to capital and, in some cases, liquidity requirements that apply to the Company’s non-U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. These rules are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or more liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also “Consolidated Supervision” and “Capital Standards” above. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations’ assets.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Compliance with regulatory capital liquidity requirements may limit the Company’s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements restrict the Company’s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt, or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital liquidity requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In addition, such rules may require the Company to make substantial capital liquidity infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules.  

MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”), which provides protection for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer. SIPC protects customers’ eligible securities held by a member broker-dealer up to $500,000 per customer for all accounts in the same capacity subject to a limitation of $250,000 for claims for uninvested cash balances. To supplement this SIPC coverage, each of MS&Co. and MSSB LLC have purchased additional protection for the benefit of their customers in the form of an annual policy issued by certain underwriters and various insurance companies that provides protection for each eligible customer above SIPC limits subject to an aggregate firmwide cap of $1 billion with no per client sublimit for securities and a $1.9 million per client limit for the cash portion of any remaining shortfall. As noted under “Systemic Risk Regime,” the Dodd-Frank Act contains special provisions for the orderly liquidation of covered broker-dealers (which could potentially include MS&Co. and/or MSSB LLC). While these provisions are generally intended to provide customers of covered broker-dealers with protections at least as beneficial as they would enjoy in a broker-dealer liquidation proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act, the details and implementation of such protections are subject to further rulemaking. In addition, as noted under “Systemic Risk Regime,” the orderly liquidation provisions of Dodd-Frank could affect the nature, priority and enforcement process for other creditor claims against a covered broker-dealer, which could have an impact on the manner in which creditors and potential creditors extend credit to covered broker-dealers or the amount of credit that they extend.  

The SEC is also undertaking a review of a wide range of equity market structure issues. As a part of this review, the SEC has proposed various rules regarding market transparency, and has adopted rules requiring broker-dealers to maintain risk management controls and supervisory procedures with respect to providing access to securities markets. In addition, in an effort to prevent volatile trading, self-regulatory organizations have adopted trading pauses with respect to certain securities. It is possible that the SEC or self-regulatory organizations could propose or adopt additional market structure rules in the future. Moreover, compliance is required with respect to a new short sale uptick rule as of February 28, 2011, which will limit the ability to sell short securities that have experienced specified price declines.  

The provisions, new rules and proposals discussed above could result in increased costs and could otherwise adversely affect trading volumes and other conditions in the markets in which we operate.  

Regulation of Registered Futures Activities. As registered futures commission merchants, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are subject to net capital requirements of, and their activities are regulated by, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and various commodity futures exchanges. The Company’s futures and options-on-futures businesses also are regulated by the National Futures Association (“NFA”), a registered futures association, of which MS&Co. and MSSB LLC and certain of their affiliates are members. These regulatory requirements differ for clearing and non-clearing firms, and they address obligations related to, among other things, the registration of the futures commission merchant and certain of its associated persons, membership with the NFA, the segregation of customer funds and the holding apart of a secured amount, the receipt of an acknowledgment of certain written risk disclosure statements, the receipt of trading authorizations, the furnishing of daily confirmations and monthly statements, recordkeeping and reporting obligations, the supervision of accounts and antifraud prohibitions. Among other things, the NFA has rules covering a wide variety of areas such as advertising, telephone solicitations, risk disclosure, discretionary trading, disclosure of  

16  

Table of Contents 

 fees, minimum capital requirements, reporting and proficiency testing. MS&Co. and MSSB LLC have affiliates that are registered as commodity trading advisers and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other guidance. Under CFTC and NFA rules, commodity trading advisers who manage accounts must distribute disclosure documents and maintain specified records relating to their activities, and clients and commodity pool operators have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they operate. For each pool, a commodity pool operator must prepare and distribute a disclosure document; distribute periodic account statements; prepare and distribute audited annual financial reports; and keep specified records concerning the participants, transactions and operations of each pool, as well as records regarding transactions of the commodity pool operator and its principals. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships.  

Derivatives Regulation. Through the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company will face a comprehensive U.S. regulatory regime for its activities in certain over-the-counter derivatives. The regulation of “swaps” and “security-based swaps” (collectively, “Swaps”) in the U.S. will be effected and implemented through CFTC, SEC and other agency regulations, which are required to be adopted by July 2011.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires, with limited exceptions, central clearing of certain types of Swaps and also mandates that trading of such Swaps, with limited exceptions, be done on regulated exchanges or execution facilities. As a result, market participants, including the Company’s entities engaging in Swaps, will have to centrally clear and trade on an exchange or execution facility certain Swap transactions that are currently uncleared and executed bilaterally. Also, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the registration of “swap dealers” and “major swap participants” with the CFTC and “security-based swap dealers” and “major security-based swap participants” with the SEC (collectively, “Swaps Entities”). Certain subsidiaries of the Company will likely be required to register as a swap dealer and security-based swap dealer and it is possible some may register as a major swap participant and major security-based swap participant.  

Swap Entities will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime with respect to the Swap activities for which they are registered. For example, Swaps Entities will be subject to a capital regime, a margin regime for uncleared Swaps and a segregation regime for collateral of counterparties to uncleared Swaps. Swaps Entities also will be subject to business conduct and documentation standards with respect to their Swaps counterparties. Furthermore, Swaps Entities will be subject to significant operational and governance requirements, including reporting and recordkeeping, maintenance of daily trading records, creation of audit trails, monitoring procedures, risk management, conflicts of interest and the requirement to have a chief compliance officer, among others. It is currently unclear to what extent regulation of Swaps Entities might also bring certain activities of the affiliates of such a Swaps Entity under the oversight of the Swaps Entity’s regulator.  

The specific parameters of these Swaps Entities requirements are being developed through CFTC, SEC and bank regulator rulemakings. Until such time as final rules are adopted, the extent of the regulation Morgan Stanley entities required to register will face remains unclear. It is likely, however, that, regardless of the final rules adopted, the Company will face increased costs due to the registration and regulatory requirements listed above. Complying with the proposed regulation of Swaps Entities could require the Company to restructure its Swaps businesses, require extensive systems changes, require personnel changes, and raise additional potential liabilities and regulatory oversight. Compliance with Swap-related regulatory capital requirements may require the Company to devote more capital to its Swaps business. The Dodd-Frank Act requires reporting of Swap transactions, both to regulators and publicly, under rules and regulations currently being proposed by the CFTC and the SEC, and the extent of these reporting requirements will not be clear until final rules are adopted.  

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires certain entities receiving customer collateral for cleared Swaps to register with the CFTC as a futures commission merchant or with the SEC as a broker, dealer or security-based swap dealer, as appropriate to the type of activity, and to follow certain segregation requirements for customer collateral. Futures  

17  

Table of Contents 

 commission merchants and broker-dealers face their own comprehensive regulatory regimes administered by the CFTC and SEC, respectively. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires adoption of rules regarding position limits, large trader reporting regimes, CFTC whistleblower protection, compensation requirements and anti-fraud and anti-manipulation requirements related to activities in Swaps.  

The European Union is in the process of establishing its own set of OTC derivatives regulations, and has published a proposal known as the European Market Infrastructure Regulation. Aspects of the regulation, including the scope of derivatives covered, and mandatory clearing and reporting requirements, are likely to be substantially similar to derivatives regulation under the Dodd-Frank Act. It is unclear at present how European and U.S. derivatives regulation will interact.  

Regulation of Certain Commodities Activities. The Company’s commodities activities are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. Terminal facilities and other assets relating to the Company’s commodities activities also are subject to environmental laws both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal. See also “—Scope of Permitted Activities” above.  

The Dodd-Frank Act provides the CFTC with additional authority to adopt position limits with respect to certain futures or options on futures, and the CFTC has proposed to adopt such limits. New position limits may affect trading strategies and affect the profitability of various businesses and transactions. 

Non-U.S. Regulation. The Company’s businesses also are regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which the Company maintains an office. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the U.K. Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) and several U.K. securities and futures exchanges, including the London Stock Exchange and Euronext.liffe, regulate the Company’s activities in the U.K.; the Deutsche Bôrse AG and the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) regulate its activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; Eidgenôssische Finanzmarktaufsicht regulates its activities in Switzerland; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange, regulate its activities in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.  

Asset Management.  

Many of the subsidiaries engaged in the Company’s asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC and, in certain states, some employees or representatives of subsidiaries are registered as investment adviser representatives. Many aspects of the Company’s asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the Company from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of  

18  

Table of Contents 

 individual employees, limitations on the Company engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. As a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company’s asset management activities will be subject to certain additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements, restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds under the Volcker Rule (subject to certain limited exceptions) and certain rules and regulations regarding trading activities, including trading in derivatives markets. Many of these new requirements may increase the expenses associated with the Company’s asset management activities and/or reduce the investment returns the Company is able to generate for its asset management clients. Many important elements of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be known until rulemaking is finalized and certain final regulations are adopted. See also “—Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule” and “—Derivatives Regulation” above.  

The Company’s Asset Management business is also regulated outside the U.S. For example, the FSA regulates the Company’s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates the Company’s business in Japan; the Securities and Exchange Board of India regulates the Company’s business in India; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates the Company’s business in Singapore.  

Anti-Money Laundering.  

The Company’s Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. In the U.S., for example, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “BSA/USA PATRIOT Act”), imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding company subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, and mutual funds to verify the identity of customers that maintain accounts. The BSA/USA PATRIOT Act also mandates that financial institutions have policies, procedures and internal processes in place to monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. A financial institution subject to the BSA/USA PATRIOT Act also must designate a BSA/AML compliance officer, provide employees with training on money laundering prevention, and undergo an annual, independent audit to assess the effectiveness of its AML program. Outside the U.S., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require designated types of financial institutions to implement AML programs. The Company has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. The Company has also implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to the U.S. foreign policy, national security, or economy, by other governments, or by global or regional multilateral organizations.  

Anti-Corruption.  

The Company is subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), which prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-U.S. government official in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. The Company is also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Company has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the FCPA and other applicable anti-corruption laws, rules, and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates.  

Protection of Client Information.  

Many aspects of the Company’s business are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the European Union (“EU”) Data Protection Directive in  

19  

Table of Contents 

 the EU and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. The Company has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.  

Research.  

Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with U.S. federal and state regulators (to which the Company is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.  

Compensation Practices and Other Regulation. 

The Company’s compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. In June 2010, the Federal Reserve and other federal regulators issued final guidance applicable to all banking organizations, including those supervised by the Federal Reserve, promulgated in accordance with compensation principles and standards for banks and other financial companies designed to encourage sound compensation practices established by the Financial Stability Board at the direction of the leaders of the Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors. The guidance was designed to help ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations’ safety and soundness. The scope and content of the Federal Reserve’s policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop, and the Company expects that these policies will evolve over a number of years.  

The Company is subject to the compensation-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, which may impact its compensation practices. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, federal regulators, including the Federal Reserve, must prescribe regulations to require covered financial institutions, including the Company, to report the structures of all of their incentive-based compensation arrangements and prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing employees, directors or principal shareholders with excessive compensation or that could lead to material financial loss to the covered financial institution. In February 2011, the FDIC was the first federal regulator to propose an interagency rule implementing this requirement. Further, the SEC must direct listing exchanges to require companies to implement policies relating to disclosure of incentive-based compensation that is based on publicly reported financial information and the clawback of such compensation from current or former executive officers following certain accounting restatements.  

In addition to the guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve and referenced above, the Company’s compensation practices may also be impacted by other regulations promulgated in accordance with the Financial Stability Board compensation principles and standards. These standards are to be implemented by local regulators. For instance, in December 2010, the FSA published a policy statement outlining amendments to the Remuneration Code, which governs remuneration of employees at certain banks, to address compensation-related rules under the EU Capital Requirements Directive. In another example, the United Kingdom has implemented a non-deductible 50% tax on certain financial institutions in respect of discretionary bonuses in excess of £25,000 awarded during the period starting on December 9, 2009 and ending on April 5, 2010 to “relevant banking employees.”  

The Dodd-Frank Act also provides a bounty to whistleblowers who present the SEC with information related to securities laws violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to establish a Whistleblower Office to administer the SEC’s whistleblower program, and prohibits retaliation by employers against individuals that provide the SEC with information about potential securities violations. As a result of the potential of a bounty, it is possible the Company could face an increased number of investigations by the SEC.  

For a discussion of certain risks relating to the Company’s regulatory environment, see “Risk Factors” herein.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.  

The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of February 28, 2011 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.  

Francis P. Barron (59). Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley (since September 2010). Partner at the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP (December 1985 to August 2010).  

Kenneth deRegt (55). Global Head of Fixed Income Sales and Trading (excluding Commodities) of Morgan Stanley (since January 2011). Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley (February 2008 to January 2011). Managing Director of Aetos Capital, LLC, an investment management firm (December 2002 to February 2008).  

Gregory J. Fleming (48). Executive Vice President and President of Asset Management (since February 2010) and President of Global Wealth Management of Morgan Stanley (since January 2011). President of Research of Morgan Stanley (February 2010 to January 2011). Senior Research Scholar at Yale Law School and Distinguished Visiting Fellow of the Center for the Study of Corporate Law at Yale Law School (January 2009 to December 2009). President of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (“Merrill Lynch”) (February 2008 to January 2009). Co-President of Merrill Lynch (May 2007 to February 2008). Executive Vice President and Co-President of the Global Markets and Investment Banking Group of Merrill Lynch (August 2003 to May 2007).  

James P. Gorman (52). President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010) and Chairman of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (since June 2009). Co-President (December 2007 to December 2009) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief Operating Officer of the Global Wealth Management Group (February 2006 to April 2008). Head of Corporate Acquisitions Strategy and Research at Merrill Lynch (July 2005 to August 2005) and President of the Global Private Client business at Merrill Lynch (December 2002 to July 2005).  

Keishi Hotsuki (48). Interim Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2011) and Head of the Market Risk Department of Morgan Stanley (since March 2008). Global Head of Market Risk Management at Merrill Lynch (June 2005 to September 2007). Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (since May 2010).  

Colm Kelleher (53). Executive Vice President and Co-President of Institutional Securities of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006).  

John J. Mack (66). Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley (since June 2005). Chief Executive Officer (June 2005 to December 2009). Chairman of Pequot Capital Management (June 2005). Co-Chief Executive Officer of Credit Suisse Group (January 2003 to June 2004). President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Credit Suisse First Boston (July 2001 to June 2004). President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (May 1997 to March 2001).  

Ruth Porat (53). Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Vice Chairman of Investment Banking (September 2003 to December 2009). Global Head of Financial Institutions Group (September 2006 to December 2009) and Chairman of the Financial Sponsors Group (July 2004 to September 2006) within the Investment Banking Division.  

James A. Rosenthal (57). Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2011) and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney and Head of Corporate Strategy of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Head of Firmwide Technology and Operations (March 2008 to January 2010). Chief Financial Officer of Tishman Speyer (May 2006 to March 2008).  

21  

Table of Contents 

Paul J. Taubman (50). Executive Vice President and Co-President of Institutional Securities of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Global Head of Investment Banking (January 2008 to December 2009). Global Co-Head of Investment Banking (July 2007 to January 2008), Global Head of Mergers and Acquisitions Department (May 2005 to July 2007) and Global Co-Head of Mergers and Acquisitions Department (December 2003 to May 2005).  

22  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.