Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts

OVERVIEW

Nordstrom is a leading fashion specialty retailer offering apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men and children. We offer an extensive selection of high-quality brand-name and private label merchandise through our various channels: “Nordstrom” branded full-line stores and online store at Nordstrom.com, Nordstrom Rack stores, Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook and other retail channels, including Trunk Club showrooms and TrunkClub.com, our Jeffrey boutiques and our clearance store that operates under the name “Last Chance.” As of January 31, 2015, our stores are located in 38 states throughout the United States and in one province in Canada. In addition, we offer our customers a Nordstrom Rewards™ loyalty program along with a variety of payment products and services, including credit and debit cards.

We continue to see the ongoing evolution of retail, with increasing customer interaction between our stores and ecommerce. We are making progress to meet customer expectations of a personalized experience that merges the richness of stores with the convenience of online. Because the customer views us simply as Nordstrom, we believe there is tremendous value in strengthening our platform for the customer experience that encompasses full-price, off-price, in-store and online. While each channel represents a substantial growth opportunity, there are significant synergies across channels to create a unique customer experience to gain market share. 

We considered 2014 a watershed year in our company history, with our successful entry into Canada, continued expansion of our Nordstrom Rack business through store growth, the launch of Nordstromrack.com and the acquisition of Trunk Club. Our performance in 2014 reflected continued progress in executing our customer strategy through investments to drive growth across channels. We achieved total net sales growth of 7.8%, adding nearly $1 billion to our top-line and delivering record sales and earnings per diluted share. Our financial position remains strong and this marked the sixth consecutive year we generated over $1 billion in cash flow from operations. 

Our partnership with vendors and brands enhances our product offering. We offer Topshop merchandise at 53 full-line stores and online, with plans to reach over 80 stores in 2015. Our new partnership with Madewell in 2015, initially available at 15 of our stores and online, is another way to provide sought-after brands that appeal to new and existing customers.

In 2014, we opened our first full-line store in Canada in Calgary, Alberta, reflecting a multi-year effort from our team to address the unique challenges of crossing the border. With our store outperforming our expectations, we are encouraged with our customers’ response in this market. We are looking forward to opening stores in 2015 in Ottawa, Ontario and Vancouver, British Columbia. In the U.S. we increased our presence with two full-line stores in The Woodlands, Texas and Jacksonville, Florida. In 2015, we plan to open three full-line stores in Puerto Rico, Minneapolis, Minnesota and Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

At Nordstrom Rack, we offer customers great brands at great prices, with 48 of the top 50 full-line brands represented. We opened 27 Nordstrom Rack stores in 2014, a record number of openings, contributing to Nordstrom Rack’s total sales growth of 17%. 

Our online businesses continue to be our fastest-growing channels. In the spring of 2014, we expanded our capabilities through the launch of Nordstromrack.com, providing a seamless integration with HauteLook. We more than doubled our merchandise selection, which accelerated growth in this channel in the second half of 2014. Demonstrating synergies across our businesses, we enabled customers to return purchases from HauteLook and Nordstromrack.com to any of our Nordstrom Rack stores, which drove nearly one million incremental trips to Nordstrom Rack stores. 

Nordstrom.com finished its fifth consecutive year of approximately 20% or more comparable sales growth, with a key driver being increased merchandise selection. In 2015, we plan to open our third fulfillment center, located in Pennsylvania, which will enhance the customer experience through faster delivery. Furthermore, we have extended our full-price offering with our acquisition of Trunk Club, a high-growth business offering a new approach to personalized service. 

Our credit business, through our Nordstrom Rewards program, continues to play an important role in attracting new customers and deepening our engagement with existing customers. The program contributes to our overall results, with members shopping more frequently and spending more on average than non-members. For the third consecutive year, we opened over one million new accounts. With over four million active members, 2014 sales from members represented approximately 40% of our sales.

We are confident in our ability to execute our customer strategy as we evolve with customers and continue to leverage capabilities across all channels to serve customers on their terms. To enhance the customer experience, we continue to make investments in our stores in new markets such as Canada, Puerto Rico and Manhattan, in our ecommerce and fulfillment capabilities and in technology to support growth across all channels. We believe these investments in our customer strategy will help us achieve long-term top-quartile shareholder returns through high single-digit total sales growth and mid-teens Return on Invested Capital.

16
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our reportable segments are Retail and Credit. Our Retail segment includes our U.S. Nordstrom branded full-line stores and online store, Nordstrom Rack stores, Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook and other retail channels, including Trunk Club, Jeffrey, our Canada store and our Last Chance clearance store. For purposes of discussion and analysis of our results of operations of our Retail Business, we combine our Retail segment results with revenues and expenses in the “Corporate/Other” column of Note 16: Segment Reporting in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. We analyze our results of operations through earnings before interest and income taxes for our Retail Business and Credit, while interest expense and income taxes are discussed on a total company basis.

Similar to many other retailers, Nordstrom follows the retail 4-5-4 reporting calendar, which included an extra week in the fourth quarter of 2012 (the “53rd week”). The analysis of our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources compares the 52 weeks in 2013 to the 53 weeks in 2012. However, the 53rd week is not included in comparable sales calculations. In 2012, the 53rd week contributed approximately $0.04 to earnings per diluted share.

RETAIL BUSINESS

Summary

The following table summarizes the results of our Retail Business for the past three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Subtotals and totals may not foot due to rounding. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  17
Retail Business Net Sales

In our ongoing effort to enhance the customer experience, we are focused on providing customers with a seamless experience across our channels. While our customers may engage with us through multiple channels, we know they value the overall Nordstrom brand experience and view us simply as Nordstrom, which is ultimately how we view our business. To provide additional transparency into our net sales by channel, we present the following summary of our Retail Business:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Other retail includes our Jeffrey boutiques, Trunk Club and our Nordstrom Canada full-line store.

2 Comparable sales include sales from stores that have been open at least one full year at the beginning of the year. We also include sales from our online channels (Nordstrom.com, Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook) in comparable sales because of the integration with our stores. Fiscal year 2012 includes an extra week (the 53rd week) as a result of our 4-5-4 retail reporting calendar. The 53rd week is not included in comparable sales calculations.

3 Sales per square foot is calculated as net sales divided by weighted-average square footage. Weighted-average square footage includes a percentage of year-end square footage for new stores equal to the percentage of the year during which they were open. 4-wall sales per square foot is calculated as sales for Nordstrom U.S. full-line stores, Nordstrom Rack stores, Jeffrey boutiques, our Canada full-line store, Last Chance and Trunk Club showrooms divided by their weighted-average square footage.

18
Net Sales (2014 vs. 2013)

In 2014, total company net sales increased 7.8%, which was attributable to the comparable sales increase of 4.0%. During the year, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores, including our first store in Canada, and 27 Nordstrom Rack stores. Additionally, as a result of the acquisition of Trunk Club, we acquired four Trunk Club showrooms and opened one additional Trunk Club showroom in 2014. These additions increased our square footage by 5.5% and represented 2.8% of our total net sales for 2014. 

Nordstrom net sales, which consist of the U.S. full-line and Nordstrom.com businesses, were $9,678 in 2014, an increase of 3.8% compared with 2013, with comparable sales up 3.6%. These increases reflected continued momentum in our Nordstrom.com channel. Both the number of items sold and the average selling price increased on a comparable basis in 2014. Category highlights included Accessories, Cosmetics and Men’s Apparel. 

U.S. full-line net sales for 2014 were $7,682, a decrease of 0.3% compared with 2013 and comparable sales decreased by 0.5%. The top-performing geographic regions for full-line stores were the Southeast and Southwest. 

Our Nordstrom.com, Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook channels continued to experience outsized growth. Nordstrom.com net sales increased 23% and Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook net sales increased 22%, both driven by expanded merchandise selection and ongoing technology investments to enhance the customer experience.

Nordstrom Rack net sales increased $477, or 17%, compared with 2013, reflecting incremental volume from existing stores and the impact of 27 new stores since fiscal 2013. Comparable sales increased 3.8% for the year. Shoes and Accessories were the top-performing categories for the year. On a comparable basis, the average selling price of Nordstrom Rack merchandise increased while the number of items sold was flat. 

Net Sales (2013 vs. 2012)

Net sales for 2013 increased 3.4% compared with 2012, driven by a comparable sales increase of 2.5%, attributable to growth at Nordstrom.com and Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion. During 2013, we opened 22 Nordstrom Rack stores and relocated one Nordstrom full-line store and two Nordstrom Rack stores. These additions represented 1.6% of our total net sales for 2013 and increased our square footage by 2.9%. The 53rd week in 2012 contributed approximately $162 in additional net sales.

Nordstrom net sales for 2013 were $9,327, an increase of 1.0% compared with 2012, with comparable sales up 2.3%. Strong growth at Nordstrom.com was partially offset by sales decreases at our full-line stores. Both the average selling price and the number of items sold increased on a comparable basis in 2013 compared with 2012. Category highlights included Cosmetics, Men’s Shoes and Women’s Apparel. 

Full-line net sales for 2013 were $7,705, a decrease of 3.3% compared with 2012, which was primarily driven by a comparable sales decrease of 2.1% for the year. The top-performing geographic regions for full-line stores for 2013 were the Southwest and Southeast. Nordstrom.com showed strong sales growth with net sales of $1,622, an increase of 28% compared with 2012, with comparable sales up 30% on a comparable 52-week basis. These increases were driven by expanded merchandise selection and ongoing technology investments to enhance the customer experience.

Nordstrom Rack net sales were $2,738, up 12.0% compared with 2012, primarily due to 37 new store openings in 2012 and 2013. Comparable sales increased 2.7% for the year. Cosmetics and Shoes were the strongest-performing categories for the year. Both the average selling price and the number of items sold increased on a comparable basis in 2013 compared with 2012.

Retail Business Gross Profit

The following table summarizes the Retail Business gross profit:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Retailers do not uniformly record the costs of buying and occupancy and supply chain operations (freight, purchasing, receiving, distribution, etc.) between gross profit and selling, general and administrative expense. As such, our gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses and rates may not be comparable to other retailers’ expenses and rates.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3 Inventory turnover rate is calculated as annual cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments) divided by 4-quarter average inventory. Retailers do not uniformly calculate inventory turnover as buying and occupancy costs may be included in selling, general and administrative expenses. As such, our inventory turnover rates may not be comparable to other retailers. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  19
Gross Profit (2014 vs. 2013)

Our Retail gross profit rate decreased 52 basis points compared with 2013 due to increased markdowns and Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion. The growth in Nordstrom Rack stores resulted in a higher occupancy expense as sales volume at new stores typically take several years to reach the average of our mature stores and also have substantial pre-opening costs. Retail gross profit increased $275 in 2014 due to an increase in net sales, partially offset by increased markdowns. 

Our inventory turnover rate decreased to 4.67 times in 2014, from 5.07 times in 2013. Ending inventory per square foot increased 8.8% compared with the same period in 2013, which outpaced the total sales per square foot increase of 3.9% primarily due to planned inventory growth related to Nordstrom Rack and Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook.

Gross Profit (2013 vs. 2012)

Our Retail gross profit rate decreased 41 basis points compared with 2012 primarily due to higher expenses associated with the growth in the Nordstrom Rewards customer loyalty program and higher occupancy costs related to Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion. Retail gross profit increased $99 in 2013 compared with 2012 due to an increase in net sales at Nordstrom.com and Nordstrom Rack, which was partially offset by a decrease in full-line net sales and increased occupancy costs related to Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion.

Our inventory turnover rate decreased to 5.07 times in 2013, from 5.37 times in 2012. This was primarily due to our increased investment in pack and hold inventory at Nordstrom Rack, which helped fuel the growth in that channel. On a per square foot basis, we ended the year with a 9.4% increase in our ending inventory on a 0.8% increase in sales compared with 2012. The increase in ending inventory per square foot relative to the increase in sales per square foot was primarily due to the impact of the 53rd week in 2012, which decreased inventory levels in our full-line stores and included an additional week of sales in 2012. In 2013, we also planned inventory increases in full-line stores to fuel growth in well-performing merchandise categories and increased our pack and hold inventory at Nordstrom Rack.

Retail Business Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Retail Business selling, general and administrative expenses (“Retail SG&A”) are summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (2014 vs. 2013)

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 48 basis points in 2014 compared with 2013 primarily due to expenses related to the acquisition of Trunk Club and ongoing fulfillment and technology investments. Our Retail SG&A increased $316 in 2014 due primarily to growth-related investments in fulfillment and technology.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (2013 vs. 2012) 

Our Retail SG&A rate decreased 8 basis points in 2013 compared with 2012 due to expense leverage from increased sales volume. Our Retail SG&A expenses increased $100 in 2013 compared with 2012 due primarily to growth-related investments in our ecommerce business, Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion and Canada pre-opening expenses. The increase also reflected expenses associated with higher sales volume and the opening of 22 Nordstrom Rack stores in 2013.

20
CREDIT SEGMENT

The Nordstrom credit and debit card products are designed to strengthen customer relationships and grow retail sales by providing loyalty benefits, valuable services and payment products. We believe our credit business allows us to build deeper relationships with our customers by fully integrating the Nordstrom Rewards program with our retail stores and providing better service, which in turn fosters greater customer loyalty. Our cardholders tend to visit our stores more frequently and spend more with us than non-cardholders. Our Nordstrom private label credit and debit cards can be used only at our Nordstrom full-line stores in the U.S., Nordstrom Rack stores and online at Nordstrom.com, Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook (“inside volume”), while our Nordstrom Visa credit cards also may be used for purchases outside of Nordstrom (“outside volume”). Cardholders participate in the Nordstrom Rewards program through which cardholders accumulate points for their purchases. Upon reaching a certain points threshold, cardholders receive Nordstrom Notes®, which can be redeemed for goods or services at Nordstrom full-line stores in the U.S. and Canada, Nordstrom Rack stores and at Nordstrom.com. Nordstrom Rewards customers receive reimbursements for alterations, get Personal Triple Points days and have early access to sales events. With increased spending, they can receive additional amounts of these benefits as well as access to exclusive fashion and shopping events.

In May 2014, we announced our plan to review options for a potential financial partner for our credit card receivables portfolio. We intend to execute a transaction only if our strategic and financial requirements are met. In the event a transaction is finalized, we will classify the relevant credit card receivables as held for sale, which could result in a gain or loss upon reclassification.

Summary

The table below provides a detailed view of the operational results of our Credit segment, consistent with Note 16: Segment Reporting in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In order to better reflect the economic contribution of our credit and debit card program, intercompany merchant fees are also included in the table below, which represent the estimated costs that would be incurred if our cardholders used third-party cards instead of ours.

Interest expense at the Credit segment is equal to the amount of interest related to securitized debt plus an amount assigned to the Credit segment in proportion to the estimated debt and equity needed to fund our credit card receivables. Based on our research, debt as a percentage of credit card receivables for other credit card companies ranges from 70% to 90%. As such, we believe a mix of 80% debt and 20% equity is appropriate, and therefore assign interest expense to the Credit segment as if it carried debt of up to 80% of the credit card receivables. Our average credit card receivable investment metric below represents the remaining 20% to fund our credit card receivables.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Subtotals and totals may not foot due to rounding.

2 As presented in Note 16: Segment Reporting in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

3 Volume represents sales plus applicable taxes.

4 Credit segment contribution, net of tax, calculated as a percentage of our average credit card receivable investment.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  21
Credit Card Revenues

The following is a summary of our Credit card revenues:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit card revenues include finance charges, interchange fees, late fees and other revenue. Finance charges represent interest earned on unpaid balances while interchange fees are earned from the use of Nordstrom Visa credit cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom. Late fees are assessed when a credit card account becomes past due. We consider an account delinquent if the minimum payment is not received by the payment due date. Credit card revenues are recorded net of estimated uncollectible finance charges and fees. 

Credit Card Revenues (2014 vs. 2013)

Credit card revenues increased $22 in 2014 compared with 2013 primarily due to an increase in the average accounts receivable balance, slightly decreased payment rates and a 6.5% increase in total volume during 2014.

Credit Card Revenues (2013 vs. 2012)

Credit card revenues were flat in 2013 compared with 2012. This was due to growth in total volume that was offset by continued improvement in cardholder payment rates. 

Credit Expenses

Credit expenses are summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Expenses (2014 vs. 2013)

Total Credit expenses increased $8 in 2014 compared with 2013, due to higher operational expenses resulting from increased volume in 2014 and lower operational expenses in 2013 resulting from the conversion of our Nordstrom Rewards travel benefits into Nordstrom Notes during that year. The increase in operational expenses was partially offset by a reduction in bad debt expense, which resulted in a reduction of our allowance for credit losses by $5 and recoveries from the sale of bad debt during 2014. We experienced continued improvement in our portfolio delinquencies and write-off results during 2014, which are further discussed below. 

Credit Expenses (2013 vs. 2012)

Total Credit expenses decreased $4 in 2013 compared with 2012, due to lower operational and marketing expenses resulting primarily from the conversion of our Nordstrom Rewards travel benefit into Nordstrom Notes during 2013. Bad debt expense was lower in 2012 due to the $30 reduction of our allowance for credit losses in 2012 compared with a $5 reduction in 2013. We experienced continued improvement in our portfolio delinquencies and write-off results during 2013.

22
Allowance for Credit Losses and Credit Trends

The following table illustrates activity in the allowance for credit losses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Trends

During 2014, our delinquency and net write-off results continued to improve. Net write-offs in 2014 were $46, compared with $57 in 2013 and $72 in 2012. As delinquencies and net write-offs improved in both 2014 and 2013, we reduced our allowance for credit losses by $5 in both 2014 and 2013.

Credit Quality

The quality of our credit card receivables at any time reflects, among other factors, general economic conditions, the creditworthiness of our cardholders and the success of our account management and collection activities. In general, credit quality tends to decline, and the risk of credit losses tends to increase, during periods of deteriorating economic conditions. Through our underwriting and risk management standards and practices, we seek to maintain a high-quality cardholder portfolio, thereby mitigating our exposure to credit losses. As of January 31, 2015, 79.0% of our credit card receivables were from cardholders with FICO scores of 660 or above (generally considered “prime” according to industry standards) compared with 78.1% as of February 1, 2014. See Note 3: Accounts Receivable in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information.

Intercompany Merchant Fees

Intercompany merchant fees represent the estimated costs that would be incurred if our cardholders used third-party cards in our Nordstrom stores and online. In 2014, this estimate increased to $108 or 5.0% of average credit card receivables from $97 or 4.6% in 2013. This was primarily driven by the increased use of our credit and debit cards in store and online, as reflected by an increase in inside volume as a percent of total volume from 53.6% in 2013 to 55.8% in 2014.

TOTAL COMPANY RESULTS

Interest Expense, Net

Interest expense is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Expense, Net (2014 vs. 2013)

Interest expense, net decreased $23 in 2014 compared with 2013 due to a non-recurring charge of $14 in 2013 related to our debt refinancing, as well as lower average interest rates on our notes in 2014 driven by our fourth quarter 2013 debt transactions.

Interest Expense, Net (2013 vs. 2012)

Interest expense, net increased $1 in 2013 compared with 2012 due to $14 in non-recurring charges related to our debt refinancing, partially offset by an increase in capitalized interest resulting primarily from planned capital investments related to our Manhattan store and accelerated Nordstrom Rack growth.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  23
Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table illustrates the components of our effective tax rate:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Tax Expense (2014 vs. 2013)

The increase in the effective tax rate for 2014 compared with 2013 was primarily due to tax adjustments associated with a reassessment of our deferred tax assets related to acquisitions.

Income Tax Expense (2013 vs. 2012)

The increase in the effective tax rate for 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to changes in our estimated state tax reserves.

Fourth Quarter Results 

The following are our results for the fourth quarters of 2014 and 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Gross profit is calculated as net sales less cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments).

Our fourth quarter sales trends were consistent with trends the company experienced throughout 2014. We continued to make progress executing our customer strategy through investments to drive growth across channels. Net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2014 were $255, or $1.32 per diluted share, compared with $268, or $1.37 per diluted share, in 2013. The Trunk Club acquisition reduced earnings before interest and taxes in the fourth quarter by $11.

Net Sales

Total net sales increased in the fourth quarter by 9.0%, driven by a comparable sales increase of 4.7% and 35 new stores in 2014.

Nordstrom net sales, which consist of the full-line stores in the U.S. and Nordstrom.com businesses, increased $141, or 5.0%, compared with the same period in 2013, while comparable sales increased 4.5%. Both the number of items sold and the average selling price of our merchandise increased on a comparable basis. Category highlights for the quarter were Cosmetics, Accessories and Men’s Apparel. 

U.S. full-line net sales for the quarter increased $26, or 1.2%, compared with the same period in 2013, with an increase in comparable sales of 0.5%. The Southwest and Southeast were the top-performing geographic regions. 

Nordstrom.com net sales increased $115, or 19%, on top of last year’s 30% increase for the same period. Nordstromrack.com and HauteLook net sales increased $24, or 28%, compared with the same period in 2013. Both were primarily driven by expanded merchandise selection and ongoing technology investments to enhance the customer experience.

24
Nordstrom Rack net sales for the quarter increased $130, or 17%, reflecting 27 new Nordstrom Rack store openings since the fourth quarter of 2013, while comparable sales increased 3.2%. On a comparable basis, the average selling price of Nordstrom Rack merchandise increased while the number of items sold was flat. Shoes and Accessories were the category highlights for Nordstrom Rack.

Gross Profit

Our total company gross profit rate decreased 53 basis points compared with the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased markdowns at Nordstrom Rack.

Retail Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 80 basis points primarily due to expenses related to the acquisition of Trunk Club and ongoing technology and fulfillment expenses.

Credit Expenses

In the fourth quarter, expenses for our Credit segment of $54 increased from $38 in the prior year. The increase was primarily driven by higher operational expenses resulting from a 6% increase in credit volume during the fourth quarter of 2014. The fourth quarter of 2013 also included the impact of the conversion of our Nordstrom Rewards travel benefit into Nordstrom Notes, which decreased operational expenses in the prior year.

For further information on our quarterly results in 2014 and 2013, refer to Note 17: Selected Quarterly Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

2015 Outlook

Our expectations for 2015 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 This outlook does not include the impact of any future share repurchases.

Capital expenditures, net of property incentives, of approximately $1.2 billion are expected in 2015, an increase from $751 in 2014. The increase relates to store expansion, including Canada and Manhattan, and ongoing investments to improve the customer experience through flagship store remodels and a third fulfillment center expected to open in the second half of the year. To date in 2015, we have opened our second full-line store in Canada. We plan to open 27 Nordstrom Rack stores, three additional Nordstrom full-line stores in the U.S. and another full-line store in Canada during 2015. Planned net store openings are expected to increase our retail square footage by approximately 6.1%.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  25
Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) (Non-GAAP financial measure)

We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital and believe ROIC is an important component of shareholders’ return over the long term. In addition, we incorporate ROIC in our executive incentive compensation measures. For the 12 fiscal months ended January 31, 2015, our ROIC decreased to 12.6% compared with 13.6% for the 12 fiscal months ended February 1, 2014. Our ROIC decreased compared with the prior year primarily due to the acquisition of Trunk Club in addition to ongoing store expansion and increased technology investments.

ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, return on assets, net earnings, total assets or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to ROIC is return on assets. The following is a reconciliation of the components of ROIC and return on assets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease or we had purchased the property. Asset base is calculated as described in footnote 5 below.

2 Based upon our effective tax rate multiplied by the net operating profit for the 12 fiscal months ended January 31, 2015, February 1, 2014, February 2, 2013, January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011.

3 Based upon the trailing 12-month average.

4 Based upon the trailing 12-month average for accounts payable, accrued salaries, wages and related benefits, and other current liabilities.

5 Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base. The asset base for each month is calculated as the trailing 12 months of rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the asset base we would record for our capitalized operating leases described in footnote 1.

26
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We strive to maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to maintain appropriate levels of short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows, available credit facilities and potential future borrowings are sufficient to finance our cash requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain our financial position, manage refinancing risk and allow flexibility for strategic initiatives. We regularly assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and other future investments. We believe that as of January 31, 2015, our existing cash and cash equivalents on-hand of $827, available credit facilities of $800 and potential future operating cash flows and borrowings will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives. Additionally, if an agreement is reached and a transaction is consummated in regards to our credit card receivables, it could result in additional cash flows to further support our capital requirements and strategic initiatives. 

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,220 in 2014, $1,320 in 2013 and $1,110 in 2012. The majority of our operating cash inflows are derived from sales. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our merchandise vendors (net of vendor allowances), payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short-term and long-term borrowings.

Cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2014 compared with 2013, which was primarily due to higher state tax payments made in 2014 compared with 2013, as well as changes in working capital in 2014.

Cash provided by operating activities increased in 2013 compared with 2012, resulting from less state tax payments made in 2013 due to additional payments made in 2012 as a result of the 53rd week, along with increased property incentives received from developers and changes in working capital.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $889 in 2014, $822 in 2013 and $369 in 2012. Our investing cash flows primarily consist of capital expenditures, changes in restricted cash accumulated for debt maturities and changes in credit card receivables associated with cardholder purchases outside of Nordstrom using our Nordstrom Visa credit cards.

Capital Expenditures

Our capital expenditures over the last three years totaled $2,177, with $861 in 2014, $803 in 2013 and $513 in 2012. Capital expenditures increased in 2014 compared with 2013 primarily due to ongoing store expansion and increased technology investments. 

Capital expenditures increased in 2013 compared with 2012 as we continued to make progress executing our customer strategy through increased investments in technology, ecommerce, remodels and new stores, including Nordstrom Rack and our Manhattan full-line store. 

The following table summarizes our store count and square footage activity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Other stores include Jeffrey boutiques, Trunk Club showrooms, our Nordstrom Canada full-line store and Last Chance.

We had no store relocations in 2014, compared with one Nordstrom full-line store and two Nordstrom Rack relocations in 2013 and three Nordstrom Rack relocations in 2012. Our 2014 new store openings increased our square footage by 5.5%.

To date in 2015, we have opened our second full-line store in Canada. We plan to open 27 Nordstrom Rack stores, three additional Nordstrom full-line stores in the U.S. and another full-line store in Canada during 2015. Planned net store openings are expected to increase our retail square footage by approximately 6.1%.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  27
We received property incentives from our developers of $110 in 2014, $89 in 2013 and $58 in 2012. These incentives are included in our cash provided by operations in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. However, operationally we view these as an offset to our capital expenditures. Our capital expenditure percentages, net of property incentives, by category are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other capital expenditures consist of ongoing improvements to our stores in the ordinary course of business and expenditures related to various growth initiatives.

We expect to significantly increase our capital expenditures, net of property incentives, over the next five years to approximately $4,300, compared with $2,700 over the previous five years. We plan to spend approximately $1,200 in 2015 compared with $751 in 2014. Both of these increases are primarily due to our continued expansion into new markets such as Canada, Puerto Rico and Manhattan, investment in new Nordstrom Rack and full-line stores and remodels of existing stores. Over these next five years, we expect that 62% of our net capital expenditures will be for new store openings, relocations and remodels and 34% for ecommerce and information technology. We believe that we have the capacity for additional capital investments should opportunities arise.

Change in Restricted Cash

In connection with the $500 debt maturity in the first quarter of 2012, we began making required monthly cash deposits of $100 into a restricted account in December 2011 until we accumulated $500 by April 2012 to retire the debt. As of January 28, 2012, we had accumulated $200. During the first quarter of 2012, the net amount withdrawn from restricted cash of $200 was recorded as cash received from investing activities.

Change in Credit Card Receivables Originated at Third Parties 

The Nordstrom Visa credit cards allow our customers to make purchases at merchants outside of our stores and accumulate points for our Nordstrom Rewards program. In 2014, the change in credit card receivables from customers’ third-party purchases using their Nordstrom Visa credit cards was relatively flat compared with 2013.

In 2013, the change in credit card receivables from customers’ third-party purchases using their Nordstrom Visa credit cards decreased to $6, compared with $42 in 2012, as payment rates slightly increased in 2013.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $698 in 2014 compared with $589 in 2013 and $1,333 in 2012. Our financing activities include repurchases of common stock, our short-term and long-term borrowing activity, and payment of dividends.

Short-term and Long-term Borrowing Activity 

In the fourth quarter of 2013, we issued $665 of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due January 2044 (“2044 Notes”). We used $400 of the proceeds to retire all 6.75% senior unsecured notes due June 2014. We exchanged $201 of the 7.00% senior unsecured notes due January 2038 (“2038 Notes”) for $265 of the 2044 Notes. The $64 in excess of the outstanding principal of the 2038 Notes relates to the lower interest rate and longer maturity of the new 2044 Notes, and we recorded it as part of the discount to be amortized over the term of the 2044 Notes. As of January 31, 2015, we had $598 of outstanding 2044 Notes, net of a $67 discount. The 2044 Notes exchanged for the 2038 Notes and the related discounts represented a non-cash activity of $201 that had no impact to our 2013 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Note 8: Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information. 

During 2012, we retired our $500 securitized Series 2007-2 Class A & B Notes upon maturity in April 2012 using accumulated restricted cash described in Investing Activities above. 

28
Share Repurchases

In February 2013, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $800 of our outstanding common stock, through March 1, 2015. In September 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a new program to repurchase up to $1,000 of our outstanding common stock, through March 1, 2016, in addition to the remaining amount available for repurchase under previously authorized programs. During 2014, we repurchased 8.9 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $595 and had $1,075 remaining in share repurchase capacity as of January 31, 2015. The actual number and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will be subject to market and economic conditions and applicable SEC rules.

Dividends

In 2014, we paid dividends of $251, or $1.32 per share, compared with $234, or $1.20 per share, in 2013 and $220, or $1.08 per share, in 2012. During the first quarter of 2014, we increased our quarterly dividend from $0.30 per share to $0.33 per share. In determining the amount of dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, while taking into consideration our current and projected operating performance and liquidity. Our dividend payout ratio target range is 30% to 35% and is calculated as our dividend payments divided by net earnings.

In February 2015, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.37 per share, increased from a quarterly dividend of $0.33 per share in 2014.

Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and when used in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides investors with a meaningful analysis of our ability to generate cash from our business. For the year ended January 31, 2015, Free Cash Flow decreased to $96 compared with $324 for the year ended February 1, 2014, primarily due to a decrease in cash provided by operating activities and an increase in capital investments.

Free Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, operating cash flows or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Free Cash Flow is net cash provided by operating activities. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Capacity and Commitments

As of January 31, 2015, we had total short-term borrowing capacity available for general corporate purposes of $800, which is our five-year $800 senior unsecured revolving credit facility (“revolver”) that expires in March 2018. Under the terms of our revolver, we pay a variable rate of interest and a commitment fee based on our debt rating. The revolver is available for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes and backs our commercial paper program. We have the option to increase the revolving commitment by up to $200, to a total of $1,000, provided that we obtain written consent from the lenders. 

Our $800 commercial paper program allows us to use the proceeds to fund operating cash requirements. Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing borrowing capacity under our revolver by an amount equal to the principal amount of commercial paper. 

During 2014 and 2013, we had no issuances under our commercial paper program and no borrowings under our revolver.

In November 2013, our wholly owned subsidiary in Puerto Rico entered into a $52 unsecured borrowing facility that expires in November 2018 to support our expansion into that market. As of January 31, 2015, we had $37 outstanding on this facility.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  29
We have a registration statement on file with the SEC using a “shelf” registration process. Under this shelf registration process, we may offer and sell, from time to time, any combination of the securities described in a prospectus to the registration statement, including registered debt, provided we maintain Well-known Seasoned Issuer (“WKSI”) status.

We maintain trade and standby letters of credit to facilitate international payments. As of January 31, 2015, we have $8 available under a trade letter of credit, with $1 outstanding, and $15 available under the standby letter of credit, with $7 outstanding at the end of the year.

Plans for our Manhattan full-line store, which we currently expect to open in late 2018 to 2019, ultimately include owning a condominium interest in a mixed-use tower and leasing certain nearby properties. As of January 31, 2015, we had approximately $125 of fee interest in land, which is expected to convert to the condominium interest once the store is constructed. We have committed to make future installment payments based on the developer meeting pre-established construction and development milestones. Our fee interest in the land is currently and will continue to be subject to lien by project development lenders until project completion or fulfillment of our existing installment payment commitment. In the unlikely event that this project is not completed, the opening may be delayed and we may potentially be subject to future losses or capital commitments in order to complete construction or to monetize our previous investments in the land. 

Impact of Credit Ratings

Under the terms of our revolver, any borrowings we may enter into will accrue interest for Euro-Dollar Rate Loans at a floating base rate tied to LIBOR, for Canadian Dealer Offer Rate Loans at a floating rate tied to CDOR, and for Base Rate Loans at the highest of: (i) the Euro-Dollar rate plus 100 basis points, (ii) the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points and (iii) the prime rate.

The rate depends upon the type of borrowing incurred, plus in each case an applicable margin. This applicable margin varies depending upon the credit ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt. At the time of this report, our long-term unsecured debt ratings, outlook and resulting applicable margin were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt improve, the applicable margin associated with any such borrowings may decrease, resulting in a slightly lower borrowing cost under this facility. Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt worsen, the applicable margin associated with our borrowings may increase, resulting in a slightly higher borrowing cost under this facility.

Debt Covenants

The revolver requires that we maintain an adjusted debt to earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent (“EBITDAR”) leverage ratio of less than four times (see the following additional discussion of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR).

As of January 31, 2015 and February 1, 2014, we were in compliance with this covenant. We will continue to monitor this covenant and believe that we will remain in compliance with this covenant during 2015.

30
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating and operate with an efficient capital structure. In evaluating our debt levels, this measure provides a reflection of our credit worthiness that could impact our credit rating and borrowing costs. We also have a debt covenant that requires an adjusted debt to EBITDAR leverage ratio of less than four times. As of January 31, 2015 and February 1, 2014, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.1.

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, debt to net earnings, net earnings, debt or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is debt to net earnings. The following is a reconciliation of the components of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR and debt to net earnings:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 Based upon the estimated lease liability as of the end of the period, calculated as the trailing 12 months of rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease or we had purchased the property.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  31
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of January 31, 2015. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $1,881 as of January 31, 2015, payable over the remaining life of the debt.

The capital and operating lease obligations in the table above do not include payments for operating expenses that are required by most of our lease agreements. Such expenses, which include common area charges, real estate taxes and other executory costs, totaled $88 in 2014, $81 in 2013 and $74 in 2012. In addition, some of our leases require additional rental payments based on a percentage of our sales, referred to as “percentage rent.” Percentage rent, which is also excluded from the obligations in the table above, was $14 in 2014, 2013 and 2012.

Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services and capital expenditure commitments, including our Manhattan store.

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and general liability insurance reserves and postretirement benefits. The payment amounts presented above were estimated based on historical payment trends. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above. Also excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $9, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash payments, if any, for these liabilities.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We enter into commitments to extend credit to customers through our Nordstrom credit cards. The unused credit card capacity available to our customers represents an off-balance sheet commitment. As of January 31, 2015, this unfunded commitment was $17,322.

Other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business and the development of our Manhattan full-line store, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements during 2014.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we believe are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures that follow.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses reflects our best estimate of the losses inherent in our credit card receivables as of the balance sheet date, including uncollectible finance charges and fees. We estimate such credit losses based on several factors, including historical aging and delinquency trends, write-off experience, portfolio concentration and risk metrics and general economic conditions.

We believe the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover anticipated losses in our credit card receivables under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the factors mentioned above could materially change these expectations. During 2014, our net write-off results continued to improve. As a result, we reduced our allowance for credit losses by $5 during 2014, from $80 to $75, and by $5 in 2013, from $85 to $80. A 10% change in our allowance for credit losses would have affected net earnings by approximately $5 for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015.

32
Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue from sales at our retail stores at the point of sale, net of estimated sales returns and excluding sales taxes. Revenue from sales to customers shipped directly from our stores, website and catalog, which includes shipping revenue when applicable, is recognized upon estimated receipt by the customer. We estimate customer merchandise returns based on historical return patterns and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly.

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, there is a possibility that actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. In the past three years, there were no significant changes in customer behavior and we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of our sales return reserve. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had a $10 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 31, 2015.

Inventory

Our merchandise inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market value using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories and the resulting gross margins are determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. The value of our inventory on the balance sheet is then reduced by a charge to cost of sales for retail inventory markdowns taken on the selling floor. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margin.

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Our obsolescence reserve contains uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.

We do not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence reserve. A 10% change in the obsolescence reserve would have had no material impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 31, 2015.

Goodwill

We review our goodwill annually for impairment or when circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable. We perform this evaluation at the reporting unit level, comprised of the principal business units within our Retail segment, through the application of a two-step fair value test. The first step compares the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value, which is based on the expected present value of future cash flows (income approach), comparable public companies and acquisitions (market approach) or a combination of both. If fair value is lower than the carrying value, then a second step is performed to quantify the amount of the impairment. 

As part of our impairment testing, we utilize certain assumptions and apply judgment regarding a number of factors. Significant estimates in the market approach include identifying similar companies and acquisitions with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return of investment and assessing comparable earnings or revenue multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit. Assumptions in the income approach include future cash flows for the business, future growth rates and discount rates. Estimates of cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to the business model or changes in operating performance. For Nordstrom.com, Jeffrey and HauteLook, the fair values substantially exceeded carrying values and therefore we had no goodwill impairment in 2014, 2013 or 2012. The fair value of Trunk Club’s reporting unit will be tested in 2015. A 10% change in the fair value of any of our reporting units would not have had an impact on our net earnings for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2015. 

Stock-Based Compensation Expense

We recognize stock-based compensation expense related to stock options and restricted stock at their estimated grant date fair value, recorded on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The total compensation expense is reduced by estimated forfeitures expected to occur over the vesting period of the award. We estimate the grant date fair value of stock options using the Binomial Lattice option valuation model. Stock-based compensation expense also includes amounts related to HauteLook and Trunk Club stock compensation based on the grant date fair value. Stock-based compensation expense related to the Trunk Club Value Creation Plan is based on the grant date fair value of the payout scenario we believe is probable using the Black-Scholes valuation model and is recognized on an accelerated basis due to performance criteria and graded vesting features of the plan. We also recognize stock-based compensation expense for performance share units and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which are based on their fair values as of the end of each reporting period.

Calculating the grant date fair value of stock-based awards is based on certain assumptions and requires judgment, including estimating stock price volatility, forfeiture rates, expected life and performance criteria. A 10% change in stock-based compensation expense would have a $4 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 31, 2015.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  33
Income Taxes

We regularly evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances and information available. If we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained, we recognize a benefit at the largest amount that we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our unrecognized tax benefit was $15 as of January 31, 2015 and $14 as of February 1, 2014.

Unrecognized tax benefits require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits and our particular facts and circumstances. Also, as audits are completed or statutes of limitations lapse, it may be necessary to record adjustments to our taxes payable, deferred taxes, tax reserves or income tax expense. Such adjustments did not materially impact our effective income tax rate in 2014 or 2013.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. We are currently evaluating the impact of these standards or do not expect any of these pronouncements to have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.

34
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.