PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

Separation from The E. W. Scripps Company  

As previously disclosed in our registration statement on Form 10 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Scripps Networks Interactive, Inc. was formed on July 1, 2008 and became a publicly traded company as the result of the separation of The E. W. Scripps Company (our “Former Parent” or “E. W. Scripps”) into two publicly traded companies. The separation was completed through a tax free distribution of Scripps Networks Interactive shares to E. W. Scripps shareholders following the close of business on June 30, 2008.  

Business Overview  

Scripps Networks Interactive is a leading lifestyle content and interactive services company with respected, high-profile television and interactive brands. Our businesses engage audiences and efficiently serve advertisers by delivering entertaining and highly useful content that focuses on specifically defined topics of interest.  

We manage our operations through two reportable operating segments: Lifestyle Media and Interactive Services. We also have businesses with operations in international markets. Lifestyle Media includes our national television networks, Home and Garden Television (“HGTV”), Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network (“DIY”), Cooking Channel and Great American Country (“GAC”). Lifestyle Media also includes Web sites that are associated with the aforementioned television brands and other Internet-based businesses, such as HGTVPro.com and FrontDoor.com, serving food, home and travel related categories. Interactive Services includes our online comparison shopping service, Shopzilla, and its related online comparison shopping brands, BizRate, Beso and Tada.  

Our Lifestyle Media segment earns revenue principally from advertising sales, affiliate fees and ancillary sales, including the sale and licensing of consumer products. Revenues from the Interactive Services segment are generated primarily from referral fees and advertising paid by participating online retailers. Revenues from the Lifestyle Media segment accounted for 90 percent, 89 percent and 85 percent of our consolidated revenues for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and revenues from the Interactive Services segment accounted for 9 percent, 11 percent and 15 percent of our consolidated revenues for those periods, respectively. Revenues from our international businesses accounted for one percent of our consolidated revenues in 2010.  

We seek to engage audiences that are highly desirable to advertisers with entertaining and informative lifestyle content that is produced for television, the Internet and any other media platforms consumers choose. We intend to expand and enhance our Lifestyle Media brands through the creation of popular new programming and content, the use of new distribution platforms, such as mobile phones and video-on-demand,  

4  

Table of Contents 

 the licensing and sale of branded consumer products and through international expansion. At our Interactive Services businesses, we aggregate large audiences on the Internet by organizing searchable and highly useful consumer information. We intend to enhance our Interactive Services businesses by improving the overall search comprehensiveness and usefulness of our Web sites, diversifying sources of revenue, increasing the volume of user-generated consumer information and entering new geographic markets.  

Business Segments  

Lifestyle Media  

Our Lifestyle Media business segment includes six national television networks and our portfolio of related interactive lifestyle brands. The segment generates revenue principally from the sale of advertising time on national television networks and interactive media platforms and from affiliate fees paid by cable television operators, direct-to-home satellite services and other distributors that carry our network programming. In 2010, revenues from advertising sales and affiliate fees were approximately 69 percent and 30 percent, respectively, of total revenue for the Lifestyle Media segment. Our Lifestyle Media segment also earns revenue from the licensing of its content to third parties and the licensing of its brands for consumer products such as videos, books, kitchenware and tools.  

The advertising revenue generated by our national television networks depends on the number of households subscribing to each service and on viewership ratings as determined by Nielsen Media Research and other third-party research companies.  

HGTV, Food Network, and Cooking Channel and their targeted home and food programming categories appeal strongly to women viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 age range, an audience demographic that is traditionally valued by advertisers. Travel Channel and its targeted travel programming categories appeal to viewers who are more affluent than the average cable viewer and skews slightly to adult men in the 18 to 49 range. GAC appeals to women viewers, while DIY typically has a higher percentage of adult male viewers. Advertising revenue can fluctuate relative to the popularity of specific programs and blocks of programming during defined periods of the day.  

Affiliate fee revenues are negotiated with individual cable television and direct-to-home satellite operators and other distributors. The negotiations typically result in multi-year carriage agreements with scheduled, graduated rate increases. As an incentive to obtain long-term distribution agreements for our newer networks, we may make cash payments to cable and direct-to-home satellite operators, provide an initial period during which a distributor’s affiliate fee payments are waived, or both. The amount of the fee we receive is determined by the number of subscribers with access to our network programming.  

Programming expense, employee costs, and sales and marketing expenses are the primary operating costs of our Lifestyle Media segment. Program amortization represented 41 percent of Lifestyle Media expenses in 2010 reflecting our continued investment in the improved quality and variety programming at our networks. We incur sales and marketing expenses to support brand-building initiatives at all of the Company’s television networks.  

As consumer acceptance of high-definition television grows, the Company is developing an increasing amount of original programming in high-definition format. Lifestyle Media operates five high-definition channels, HGTV-HD, Food Network-HD, Travel Channel-HD, DIY-HD and Cooking Channel-HD. The Company’s high-definition television networks are accessible by an estimated 40 million U.S. households.  

The Company’s lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses are focused on the internal development and acquisition of interactive media brands that are intended to diversify sources of revenue and enhance our competitive advantage as a leading provider of food, home, travel and lifestyle content. Revenue generated by our lifestyle interactive businesses is derived primarily from the sale of display, banner, rich media and video advertising and sponsorships.  

The lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses consist of multiple Web sites, including our six network-branded Web sites, FoodNetwork.com, HGTV.com, TravelChannel.com, DIYNetwork.com, CookingChanneltv.com and GACTV.com. In addition to serving as the home Web sites for the segment’s television programming networks, the Web sites provide informational and instructional content on specific topics within their broader lifestyle content categories. Features such as HGTV KitchenDesign, HGTV BathDesign, and DIY Home Improvement are intended to aggregate engaged audiences with interests in specific lifestyle topics. All of the segment’s interactive businesses benefit from archived television network programming of which approximately 95 percent is owned by the Company. Our ownership of programming enables us to efficiently and economically repurpose it for use on the Internet and other interactive distribution channels, including mobile and video-on-demand.  

The lifestyle Web sites also consist of other digital services including HGTVPro.com, which appeals to construction professionals and advanced do-it-yourself enthusiasts; Food.com (formerly Recipezaar.com), a recipe-sharing social networking Web site; and FrontDoor.com, a local real estate search and consumer information site that features millions of home listings and thousands of videos. The lifestyle Web sites accounted for about 5 percent of the segment’s total revenue in 2010. The strategic focus of the lifestyle interactive businesses is to grow advertising and sponsorship revenues by increasing the number of page views and video plays and attracting more unique visitors to our Web sites through site enhancements, adding more video, new tools, etc. Our strategy also includes attracting a broader audience through the placement of our video programming on national video streaming sites, and developing new sources of revenue that capitalize on traffic growth at our Web sites.  

HGTV  

HGTV is America’s leader in home television programming and is one of cable and satellite television’s top-rated networks.  

5  

Table of Contents 

 HGTV reaches about 100 million domestic households via cable and direct satellite television services. The network’s companion Web site is one of the nation’s leading online home and garden destinations, attracting an average of about 147 million page views per month, up 43 percent during the year. The network’s programming also can be seen in 165 countries and territories.  

HGTV television programming and Internet content commands an audience interested specifically in home and shelter-related topics. HGTV is television’s only network dedicated solely to such topics as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate. HGTV strives to engage audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative.  

The network ended 2010 as a top rated cable network with solid prime-time ratings. Programming highlights included HGTV Design Star, House Hunters, and House Hunters International. The network also has developed successful programming events, including the HGTV Dream Home Giveaway, HGTV Green Home Giveaway, HGTV Urban Oasis Giveaway, annual live coverage of the Rose Bowl Parade and successful competition programming like Design Star and All American Handyman.  

FOOD NETWORK  

Food Network is a leading cable and satellite television network that has been credited with redefining the television food genre. The network engages viewers with likable hosts and personalities who explore interesting and different ways to approach food and food-related topics. Food Network is available in 100 million U.S. television households and its programming can be seen internationally in 204 countries and territories. The network’s Web site, FoodNetwork.com, consistently ranks as one of America’s top food and cooking Internet destinations, with an average of about 224 million page views per month, up 3.8 percent from the year before. The Company currently owns approximately 75 percent of the Food Network and is the managing partner. The Tribune Company has a noncontrolling interest of approximately 25 percent in Food Network.  

Food Network programming and Internet content attracts audiences interested in food-related topics such as food preparation, dining out, entertaining, food manufacturing, nutrition and healthy eating. Food Network engages audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative.  

Food Network maintained its strong viewership rating in 2010. Programming highlights included Next Food Network Star; Diners, Drive-ins and Dives; and Chopped. Many of the programs on Food Network feature or are hosted by high-profile television personalities such as Bobby Flay, Rachael Ray, Giada De Laurentiis, Alton Brown, Guy Fieri and Paula Deen.  

TRAVEL CHANNEL  

We acquired a controlling interest in the Travel Channel business in December 2009, giving the Company its third fully-distributed lifestyle network. Travel Channel is a leading travel multi-media brand, offering quality television, video, Internet and mobile entertainment and information to travel enthusiasts. The network’s Web site, TravelChannel.com, is a growing site for great programming information and things travel related, with an average of about 17 million page views per month, up 6.6 percent from 2009. The network has grown into one of the largest specialty cable networks in the U.S., available in 96 million domestic television households.  

Travel Channel finished 2010 with a record year in primetime and total-day ratings.  

Programming highlights in 2010 included Samantha Brown’s Great Weekends, Anthony Bourdain: No Reservations, Andrew Zimmern’s Bizarre World, Man v. Food, Ghost Adventures, and Bert the Conqueror. Many of the programs on Travel Channel feature or are hosted by high-profile television personalities such as Samantha Brown, Anthony Bourdain, Andrew Zimmern, and Adam Richman.  

DIY NETWORK (DIY)  

DIY is America’s only television network and Web site dedicated solely to presenting entertaining and informational programming and content across a broad range of do-it-yourself categories including home building, home improvement, crafts, gardening, and landscaping. The network is available in approximately 54 million U.S. households via cable and direct-to-home satellite television services. The television network’s companion Web site, DIYNetwork.com, consistently ranks among America’s top 15 home and garden Internet destinations with an average of about 22 million page views per month, up 12 percent compared with 2009.  

COOKING CHANNEL (formerly FINE LIVING NETWORK (FLN))  

The Cooking Channel was rebranded in May 2010 to take advantage of the expanding interest in food and cooking programming in the United States. Cooking Channel is a 24-hour network that caters to avid food lovers by focusing on food information and instructional cooking programming. Offered in both standard and high definition, the network offers video-on-demand (“VOD”) and a fully interactive Internet and broadband platform as it delivers content focused on baking, ethnic cuisine, wine and spirits, healthy and vegetarian cooking and kids’ foods. Cooking Channel is available in about 57 million households. Cooking Channel programming also can be seen internationally in 4 countries and territories.  

GREAT AMERICAN COUNTRY (GAC)  

Distributed in the U.S. via cable and direct-to-home satellite television services, the network reaches about 59 million households with original programming, special musical performances and live concerts. GAC operates a companion Web site, GACTV.com. The network strives to provide its viewers with a more focused country music experience.  

6  

Table of Contents 

HGTVPro.com  

HGTVPro.com is an online interactive service that focuses on content that helps consumers and professionals understand the nuances of the planning and decision-making processes related to remodeling and building. Content includes in-depth planning and decision guides, new product information, and industry and consumer trends. HGTVPro.com is an authoritative and approachable source of information for the homeowner who wants to take his/her home to the next level and for the professionals who can help get them there. With a vast library of original video and written content, the site covers a wide variety of home remodeling and building-related topics.  

FRONTDOOR.com  

FrontDoor.com is an online real estate information and listing service that goes beyond buying and selling. FrontDoor matches localized, in-depth information on homes-for-sale with a complete library of educational and inspirational content. Through a mix of articles, video and photo slideshows visitors can also explore the softer side of real estate through the lens of architectural styles, “what it’s like to live there” city guides, and a healthy dose of pop-culture and celebrity-based real estate entertainment.  

Food.com (formerly Recipezaar.com)  

Food.com is a leading user-generated recipe and community Internet site featuring over 400,000 recipes. Food.com provides food enthusiasts with the ability to upload their own recipes, browse recipes, search recipes, create virtual cookbooks or talk about what they are most passionate about - food. Food.com is one of the Internet’s top 5 food and cooking category sites, attracting over 6 million unique visitors per month. Food.com aggregates an audience on the Internet by creating an engaged community of food enthusiasts interested in home recipes, menu planning and other food-related topics. The social-networking site features volumes of user-generated content, including recipes, photos, menus and reviews.  

Interactive Services  

Our Interactive Services segment includes Internet-based businesses that strive to simplify online shopping for consumers by aggregating, organizing, ranking and displaying relevant and searchable consumer information. Consumers who use our Interactive Services Web sites are presented with easy-to-use search results generated from continuously growing databases of information on a wide range of products that are offered for sale on the Internet by third-party retailers. Our Interactive Services brands include Shopzilla, BizRate, Beso and Tada in the United States; Shopzilla.co.uk, BizRate.co.uk, LowPriceShopper.co.uk and Beso.co.uk in the United Kingdom; Shopzilla.fr, PrixMoinsCher.fr and Beso.fr in France; and Shopzilla.de, BizRate.de, SparDeinGeld.de and Beso.de in Germany. The Web sites collectively attract approximately 35 million unique visitors each month.  

BizRate.com and Shopzilla.com are among the leading online search and comparison shopping Web sites and aggregate one of the Internet’s largest organized indexes of products and services. The sites are free to consumers who access the index via simplified, intuitively designed Internet pages that feature prominently displayed and easy-to-use search boxes. The BizRate brand also operates a consumer feedback network that annually collects and publishes on its Web sites millions of consumer reviews of stores and products.  

The BizRate Web site’s proprietary shopping search logic system and patented relevance function, ShopRank, make it possible for consumers to instantly obtain accurate search results for specific products and services. Search query results are organized and displayed on graphically designed, layered presentation pages that include product listings, images, comparative pricing information, links to online merchants and service providers and user-generated and professional product reviews. Search results also include merchant reliability rankings based on the shared experiences of BizRate users.  

The index of products and services serves as the primary database for BizRate. The database is aggregated using a highly automated system for identifying products, building online catalogs and classifying and organizing product information feeds from merchants and service providers. BizRate builds advertising relationships with participating online merchants by providing them with a scalable, self-service sign-up process, an efficient cost-per-click pricing structure and a real-time reporting system that enables them to manage the return on the investment they are making to advertise on BizRate.  

BizRate devotes considerable time and financial resources to continuously improving the user experience, the effectiveness of its proprietary search logic system for consumers and merchant advertisers, the design of its Web sites and the expansion of its searchable index of products and services.  

Beso is a taste-based shopping Web site where consumers can browse the latest products and sales from their preferred retailers and favorite brands in one place.  

Tada is a group buying shopping Web site where consumers are emailed daily exclusive short term deals from merchants participating in the BizRate marketplace. These offers must have a significant number of orders before the offer “tips” and the merchant is willing to honor the sale price. Tada marks the first site in the Shopzilla network where product purchases via credit card transactions will be fulfilled allowing the network to build even stronger relationships with their consumer base.  

The segment’s marketplace businesses strive to help online consumers make educated purchasing decisions by ranking products on such factors as comparative pricing, availability, quality and reliability. The quality and reliability of individual online merchants are ranked based on the collective, shared experiences of consumers using the segment’s Web sites. Users also are presented with supporting consumer news and information, user-generated and professional product reviews, calculators and other tools that are intended to help them complete their purchasing decisions.  

7  

Table of Contents 

The Interactive Services segment derives the largest percentage of its revenue from direct referral fees paid and advertising paid by participating online merchants that enter into contractual agreements allowing them to place text-based, linked advertisements on the segment’s Web sites. The referral fees paid by advertisers are based on a cost-per-click pricing structure, which means that advertisers pay only when consumers click on their linked ads. Cost-per-click pricing provides advertisers with an efficient means of evaluating the effectiveness of their advertising. Of particular importance for advertisers is the number of sales resulting from users clicking on their linked advertising. The segment’s search businesses encourage sustained advertising relationships with merchants by demonstrating a measurable return on investment for the referral fees they pay.  

The advertising links placed by merchants serve as the primary database of information for the segment’s Web sites. Because the success of our Interactive Services businesses depends largely on a quality user experience and repeated visits by users, ad links are intentionally presented in an unobtrusive and uniform format that provides users with impartial and factual information on products.  

The Interactive Services segment also derives revenue from contractual advertising agreements with general search engines. The agreements allow the general search engines to leverage relationships with their respective advertisers by placing sponsored links on our Interactive Services Web sites. Similar to our direct advertising relationships with merchants and service providers, the general search engines pay referral fees on a cost-per-click basis.  

Revenue categories as a percentage of total Interactive Services segment revenue are as follows:  

   •    Direct referral fees from advertising merchants, 57 percent in 2010 vs. 60 percent in 2009.  

   •    Sponsored link referral fees from general search engines, 32 percent in 2010 vs. 30 percent in 2009.  

The Interactive Services segment measures operating performance in terms of net revenue, which is defined as total revenue minus traffic acquisition costs. Traffic acquisition costs are those marketing expenses related to generating user traffic to the segment’s Web sites. The success of the segment’s businesses is largely dependent on the ability to efficiently and economically attract a high volume of user traffic.  

The segment’s businesses use a combination of online and off-line strategies to increase consumer awareness and subsequently generate user traffic. They include:  

   •    Search Engine Marketing. Search Engine Marketing refers to the purchase of text-based advertising links on general search engines such as Google and Yahoo!. The positioning and display of those paid advertising links is dependent on the acquisition of relevant keywords that determine the quality and effectiveness of general search results. The segment’s businesses participate in continuous keyword bidding auctions that are hosted by general search engines with the objective of acquiring keywords that result in the most advantageous positioning and display of purchased advertising links adjacent to general search results.  

   •    Search Engine Optimization. Search Engine Optimization refers to the continuous, algorithmic selection of relevant keywords that, when used by general search engine users, result in the most advantageous positioning and display of links to the segment’s Web sites within general search results. Traffic generated by Search Engine Optimization generally results in higher net revenues for the segment’s businesses than traffic generated by Search Engine Marketing.  

   •    Offline advertising and marketing techniques, which refers to the purchase of television, newspaper, magazine, and other more traditional forms of advertising, and the execution of effective public relations campaigns to increase brand awareness for the segment’s businesses.  

International  

The Company also is executing its growth strategy internationally. The Company, through equity ownership positions in joint ventures and other partnerships, seeks to become a world leader in lifestyle media and brand-related products and services. The Company initiated its international strategy with the launch of Food Network on B-Sky-B in the United Kingdom, reaching 10 million households. The Food Network’s distribution in the U.K., other European markets, the Middle East and Africa is supported by a joint venture the Company entered into and controls with Liberty Global Inc.’s Chello Zone. The Company is considering entering or creating partnerships in other international markets including the Asia-Pacific, India and Latin America.  

Our international businesses earn revenues primarily from advertising sales, affiliate fees, and the licensing of programming to third parties. Programming expense, employee costs, and sales and marketing expenses are the primary operating costs of our international businesses.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Competition  

Cable and satellite network programming is a highly competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. Our cable and satellite networks and Web sites generally compete for advertising revenue with other cable and broadcast television networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media. Our networks and Web sites also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, competitors’ pay and basic cable television networks, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. Our networks also compete with other television networks for distribution and affiliate fees derived from distribution agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators and other distributors.  

Our Interactive Services’ business competes for both consumer and merchant users of our service. We compete for consumers on the basis of brand recognition, coverage of products and merchants, quality of information and ease of use. We compete for merchants on the basis of the quantity of lead referrals and our ability to help merchants measure the results of their marketing expenditures on our services. Any service that helps consumers find, compare or buy products is a competitor to us.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 2,000 full-time equivalent employees, of whom approximately 1,600 were with Lifestyle Media.  

9  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors