Item 1A.    Risk Factors.    

 In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth prospects could suffer.  

 If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

 The successful and timely implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to changing technologies and introduce new products. As our competitors will continue to introduce competitive products, the development and acquisition of innovative products and technologies that improve efficacy, safety, patients’ and clinicians’ ease of use and cost-effectiveness are important to our success. The success of new product offerings will depend on many factors, including our ability to properly anticipate and satisfy    

 5   

 customer needs, obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, develop and manufacture products in an economic and timely manner, obtain and/or maintain advantageous positions with respect to intellectual property, and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. Failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products or to introduce products on schedule could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 The development and acquisition of innovative products and technologies that improve efficacy, safety, patients’ and clinicians’ ease of use and cost-effectiveness involve significant technical and business risks. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies or anticipate changes in our current and potential customers’ requirements our products may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers, license or acquire leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis.  

 We are subject to a number of existing laws and regulations, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment.  

 As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and products, and those of our customers, are regulated by numerous government agencies, both inside and outside the United States. The impact of this on us is direct, to the extent we are subject to these laws and regulations, and indirect in that in a number of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations.  

 The manufacture, distribution, marketing and use of our products are subject to extensive regulation and increasing scrutiny by the FDA and other regulatory authorities both inside and outside the United States. Any new product must undergo lengthy and rigorous testing and other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. We may elect to delay or cancel our anticipated regulatory submissions for new indications for our current or proposed new products for a number of reasons. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in us and our products, which could adversely affect our sales.  

 We continue to address a number of regulatory issues as discussed further under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In connection with these issues, there can be no assurance that additional costs or civil and criminal penalties will not be incurred, that additional regulatory actions with respect to the company will not occur, that substantial additional charges or significant asset impairments may not be required, or that additional legislation or regulation will not be introduced that may adversely affect the company’s operations. Third parties may also file claims against us in connection with these issues. In addition, sales of the related products may continue to be affected and sales of other Baxter products may be adversely affected if we do not adequately address these issues.  

 The sales and marketing of our products and our relationships with healthcare providers are under increasing scrutiny by federal, state and foreign government agencies. The FDA, the OIG, the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Trade Commission have each increased their enforcement efforts with respect to the anti-kickback statute, False Claims Act, off-label promotion of products, other healthcare related laws, antitrust and other competition laws. The DOJ has announced an increased focus on the enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) particularly as it relates to the conduct of pharmaceutical companies. Foreign governments have also increased their scrutiny of pharmaceutical companies’ sales and marketing activities and relationships with healthcare providers. The laws and standards governing the promotion, sale and reimbursement of our products and those governing our relationships with healthcare    

 6   

 providers and governments can be complicated, are subject to frequent change and may be violated unknowingly. We have compliance programs in place, including policies, training and various forms of monitoring designed to address these risks. Nonetheless, these programs and policies may not always protect us from conduct by our employees that violate these laws. Violations, or allegations of violations, of these laws may result in large civil and criminal penalties, debarment from participating in government programs, diversion of management time, attention and resources and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 Issues with product quality could have an adverse effect on our business and subject us to regulatory actions and costly litigation.  

 Quality management plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects and improving the company’s products and services. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to implement and improve our quality management program, and effectively train and manage our employee base with respect to quality management. While we have a network of quality systems throughout our business units and facilities that relate to the design, development, manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution and labeling of our products, quality and safety issues may occur with respect to any of our products. In addition, some of the raw materials employed in our production processes are derived from human and animal origins. Though great care is taken to assure the safety of these raw materials, the nature of their origin elevates the potential for the introduction of pathogenic agents or other contaminants.  

 A quality or safety issue could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals. An inability to address a quality or safety issue in an effective manner on a timely basis may also cause a loss of customer confidence in us or our products, which may result in the loss of sales. In addition, we may be named as a defendant in product liability or other lawsuits, which could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. We continue to be self-insured with respect to product liability claims. The absence of third-party insurance coverage increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims and adverse decisions. Even claims without merit could subject us to adverse publicity and require us to incur significant legal fees.  

 For more information on certain regulatory matters currently being addressed by the company with the FDA, please refer to “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Changes in the healthcare regulatory environment, including the pending healthcare reform being contemplated by the United States Congress, may adversely affect our business.  

 Changes currently being contemplated in healthcare regulatory environments worldwide may restrict our operations or our growth. Congress is currently debating reforming the current healthcare system in the United States and the laws and regulations that will determine how that reform may be implemented. Some of the laws currently under debate may adversely affect the revenue generated by our products and/or the taxes we pay. These taxes may include a tax related to the sales (or market share) of our medical devices and drugs. Because each of our business units sell medical devices and drugs it is expected that each would be impacted by these proposed taxes. In addition to possible increases in taxes, there is a provision currently under consideration which is intended to expand the use of the “340B Drug Discount Program.” The 340B program provides certain qualified entities, such as hospitals serving disadvantaged populations, with discounts on the purchases of drugs for outpatient use. It has been proposed that eligibility for these discounts be expanded to other entities and to the purchase of drugs for inpatient use. These additional taxes and compulsory discounts, if enacted, may adversely affect our business by decreasing revenues and profits, diminishing our ability to generate sufficient capital available for R&D and forcing us to discontinue products that cannot support the increased tax or discount burden.   

 7   

 None of the legislation described above has been enacted. We are unable to predict with any degree of certainty what, if any, legislation will be enacted and if so what impact such legislation will ultimately have on our business.  

 If reimbursement for our current or future products is reduced or modified, our business could suffer.  

 Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar healthcare management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payors. These healthcare management organizations and third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Additionally, as discussed above, the containment of healthcare costs has become a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs and other healthcare products have been targeted in this effort. We also face challenges in certain foreign markets where the pricing and profitability of our products generally are subject to government controls. Government controls in foreign markets also impact our ability to collect accounts receivable in a timely manner. Accordingly, our current and potential products may not be considered cost effective, and reimbursement to the consumer may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. Legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may change at any time and in ways that are difficult to predict and these changes may be adverse to us. Any reduction in Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payor reimbursements could have a negative effect on our operating results.  

 Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 There has been consolidation in our customer base, and by our competitors, which has resulted in pricing and sales pressures. As these consolidations occur, competition to provide products like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants including GPOs, IDNs and other customers will become greater. Customers will continue to work and organize to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. To the extent we are forced to reduce our prices, our business will become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs. The company’s sales could be adversely affected if any of its contracts with its GPOs, IDNs or other customers are terminated in part or in their entirety, or members decide to purchase from another supplier.  

 We face substantial competition and many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources.  

 Although no single company competes with us in all of our businesses, we face substantial competition in each of our segments, from international and domestic healthcare and pharmaceutical companies of all sizes. Competition is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance, and technological innovation. Some competitors, principally large pharmaceutical companies, have greater financial, R&D and marketing resources than us. Competition may increase further as additional companies begin to enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. Greater financial, R&D and marketing resources may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements that may render our products obsolete or non-competitive. If our competitors develop more effective or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we do, our operations will likely be negatively affected.  

 We also face competition for marketing, distribution and collaborative development agreements, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to intellectual property. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations may also conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our programs. If we are unable to successfully compete with these companies and institutions, our business may suffer.   

 8   

 If we are unable to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a timely basis, our business may be adversely affected.  

 The manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amounts of quality components and materials. We manufacture our products in over 50 manufacturing facilities around the world. We acquire our components and materials from many suppliers in various countries. While efforts are made to diversify our sources of components and materials, in certain instances we acquire components and materials from a sole supplier. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply but we cannot guarantee these efforts will continue to be successful. In addition, due to the regulatory environment in which we operate, we may be unable to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for some components or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner, and our ability to make product sales.  

 If we are unable to protect our patents or other proprietary rights, or if we infringe on the patents or other proprietary rights of others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be materially damaged.  

 Patent and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to patent rights, both in the United States and in other countries. We cannot guarantee that pending patent applications will result in issued patents, that patents issued or licensed will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, that our patents will not be found to be invalid or that the intellectual property rights of others will not prevent the company from selling certain products or including key features in the company’s products.  

 The patent position of a healthcare company is often uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Significant litigation concerning patents and products is pervasive in our industry. Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and validity of our patents on products or processes as well as allegations that our products infringe patents held by competitors or other third parties. A loss in any of these types of cases could result in a loss of patent protection or the ability to market products, which could lead to a significant loss of sales, or otherwise materially affect future results of operations.  

 We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive positions. While we protect our proprietary rights to the extent possible, we cannot guarantee that third parties will not know, discover or develop independently equivalent proprietary information or techniques, or that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. Misappropriation or other loss of our intellectual property would have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs.  

 If our business development activities are unsuccessful, our business could suffer and our financial performance could be adversely affected.  

 We are engaged in business development activities including evaluating acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities. These activities may result in substantial investment of the company’s resources. Our success developing products or expanding into new markets from such activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to find suitable opportunities for acquisition, investment or alliance; whether we are able to establish an acquisition, investment or alliance on terms that are satisfactory to us; the strength of the other company’s underlying technology, products and ability to execute its business strategies; any intellectual property and litigation related to these products or technology; and our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company, business, product, technology or research into our existing operations, including the ability to adequately fund acquired in-process research and development projects. If we are unsuccessful in our business development activities, we may be unable to meet our financial targets and we may be required to record asset impairment charges.   

 9   

 If we are unsuccessful in identifying growth opportunities or exiting low margin businesses or discontinuing low profit products, our business, financial condition and results could be adversely affected.  

 Successful execution of our business strategy depends, in part, on improving the profit margins we earn with respect to our current and future products. A failure to identify and take advantage of opportunities that allow us to increase our profit margins or a failure by us to exit low profit margin businesses or discontinue low profit margin products, may result in us failing to meet our financial targets and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally.  

 Our operations, both inside and outside the United States, are subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies. These risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes in exchange controls, loss of business in government tenders that are held annually in many cases, nationalization, increasingly complex labor environments, expropriation and other governmental actions, availability of raw materials, changes in taxation, including legislative changes in United States and international taxation of income earned outside of the United States, importation limitations, export control restrictions, changes in or violations of U.S. or local laws, including the FCPA, dependence on a few government entities as customers, pricing restrictions, economic and political destabilization or instability, disputes between countries, diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property, disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic region — due to the location of manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers — regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest, or natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations that affect our global operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

 We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk.  

 In 2009, we generated approximately 60% of our revenue outside the United States. We anticipate that revenue from outside the United States will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. As a result, our financial results may continue to be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Market volatility and currency fluctuations may also reduce the benefits from our natural hedges and limit our ability to cost-effectively hedge against our foreign currency exposure. A discussion of the financial impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and the ways and extent to which we attempt to mitigate such impact is contained under the heading “Financial Instrument Market Risk” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can mitigate these risks.  

 Challenges in the commercial and credit environment may adversely affect our business and financial condition.  

 The company’s ability to generate cash flows from operations could be affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company’s products, in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, or deterioration in the company’s key financial ratios or credit rating. Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business and the business of our customers, including their ability to pay for our products and services, and the amount spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. These conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in our ability to produce our products.  

  Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.    

 None.   

 10   

  Item 2.    Properties.