Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    

 The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.  

 EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  

 Description of the Company and Business Segments  

 Baxter International Inc. (Baxter or the company) develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and    

 15   

 other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide. The company operates in three segments. BioScience processes recombinant and plasma-based proteins to treat hemophilia and other bleeding disorders; plasma-based therapies to treat immune deficiencies, alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency, burns and shock, and other chronic and acute blood-related conditions; products for regenerative medicine, such as biosurgery products; and vaccines. Medication Delivery manufactures intravenous (IV) solutions and administration sets, premixed drugs and drug-reconstitution systems, pre-filled vials and syringes for injectable drugs, IV nutrition products, infusion pumps, and inhalation anesthetics, as well as products and services related to pharmacy compounding, drug formulation and packaging technologies. Renal provides products to treat end-stage renal disease, or irreversible kidney failure. The business manufactures solutions and other products for peritoneal dialysis (PD), a home-based therapy, and also distributes products for hemodialysis (HD), which is generally conducted in a hospital or clinic.  

 Baxter has approximately 49,700 employees and conducts business in over 100 countries. The company generates approximately 60% of its revenues outside the United States, and maintains manufacturing and distribution facilities in a number of locations in the United States, Europe, Canada, Asia-Pacific and Latin America.  

 Financial Results  

 Baxter’s 2009 results reflect the company’s success in driving growth through global expansion and leveraging the benefits of its diversified healthcare model, while increasing its investment in research and development (R&D). In 2009, the company achieved record net sales, earnings and cash flows from operations.  

 Baxter’s global net sales totaled $12.6 billion in 2009, an increase of 2% over 2008, and included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 5 percentage points. International sales totaled $7.2 billion and represented approximately 60% of the company’s total sales in 2009. Contributing to the company’s increased sales was the BioScience segment growth, driven by increased demand and improved pricing for GAMMAGARD LIQUID (marketed as KIOVIG in most markets outside the United States), the liquid formulation of the company’s antibody-replacement therapy, IGIV (immune globulin intravenous), and certain other plasma protein products, and the continued increase in customer conversion to the company’s advanced recombinant therapy, ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method]. In the Medication Delivery segment, excluding the impact of foreign currency, growth in the company’s international pharmacy compounding and U.S. pharmaceutical partnering businesses contributed to the increase in sales, combined with increased demand for IV solutions and anesthesia products, including SUPRANE (desflurane) and sevoflurane, and increased demand and improved pricing for nutritional products. Also contributing to the increase in net sales, excluding the impact of foreign currency, were gains in the number of PD patients in the Renal segment, particularly in the United States, Latin America and Eastern Europe, with double-digit growth across Asia.  

 Baxter’s net income for 2009 totaled $2.2 billion, or $3.59 per diluted share, increasing 9% and 14%, respectively, compared to the prior year. The increase in earnings in 2009 reflects the increased gross margin as a result of improved sales mix, manufacturing cost and yield improvements, as well as improved pricing. In 2009, R&D expenses totaled $917 million, a 6% increase over the prior year, and represented the highest level of R&D spending in the company’s history. As further discussed below, results of operations for 2009 included charges associated with the company’s SYNDEO PCA Syringe Pump and COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, the company’s cost optimization efforts, and the discontinuation of the company’s SOLOMIX drug delivery system in development. Results of operations for 2008 included charges associated with the company’s COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, the discontinuation of the CLEARSHOT pre-filled syringe program and acquired in-process R&D (IPR&D).  

 The company’s financial position remains strong, with cash flows from operations totaling $2.9 billion in 2009, an increase of $394 million over 2008. At December 31, 2009, Baxter had $2.8 billion in cash and equivalents, and the company’s net debt (debt and lease obligations less cash and equivalents) represented 19% of shareholders’ equity. In 2009, Baxter’s cash outflows relating to acquisitions of and investments in    

 16   

 businesses and technologies included a $100 million payment to Sigma International General Medical Apparatus, LLC (SIGMA) for the exclusive distribution of SIGMA’s infusion pumps in the United States and international markets, a 40 percent equity stake in SIGMA, and an option to purchase the remaining portion of SIGMA. Additionally, in 2009 the company acquired certain assets of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation related to the hemofiltration business, also known as Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy (Edwards CRRT), for $56 million.  

 Capital investments totaled $1.0 billion in 2009 as the company continues to invest in capacity across its businesses to support future growth. These investments were focused on projects that enhance the company’s cost structure and manufacturing capabilities across the three businesses, particularly as they relate to the company’s nutritional, anesthesia and PD products, and plasma and recombinant manufacturing platforms. In addition, the company continues to invest to support its strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets, and continues to invest to support the company’s ongoing strategic focus on R&D with the expansion of research facilities, pilot manufacturing sites and laboratories.  

 The company’s strong cash flow generation also provided the company with the flexibility to continue to return value to its shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends. During 2009, the company repurchased 23 million shares of common stock for $1.2 billion, and paid cash dividends to its shareholders totaling $632 million. The company increased the quarterly dividend rate by 20% in late 2008 and by an additional 12% in late 2009.  

 Strategic Objectives  

 Baxter remains focused on delivering sustainable growth and shareholder value, while making appropriate investments for the future. Baxter’s diversified healthcare model, its broad portfolio of products that treat life-threatening acute or chronic conditions, and its global presence are core components of the company’s strategy to achieve these objectives. Through continued innovation, investment and collaboration, Baxter seeks to advance new therapies, improve the safety and cost-effectiveness of treatments and expand access to care.  

 The company seeks to expand gross margins by improving product and business mix, pricing products appropriately, controlling costs and enhancing productivity throughout the company’s global manufacturing footprint. As part of its approach to disciplined financial management, Baxter is focused on controlling general and administrative costs while continuing to invest in select marketing programs and promotional activities directed toward higher-growth and higher-margin products.  

 Strong cash flows generated by Baxter’s core operations have allowed the company to increase its investment in its R&D pipeline. In 2009, the company advanced a number of Phase III clinical trials and numerous earlier stage clinical trials of therapies that have the potential to impact the treatment and delivery of care for chronic diseases like Alzheimer’s disease, hemophilia, end-stage renal disease and immune deficiencies, as well as public health threats like pandemic and seasonal influenza. Refer to the R&D section below for more information on these activities. In 2010, the company will continue to invest in its R&D pipeline and pursue select business development initiatives, collaborations and alliances as part of the execution of its long-term growth strategy.  

 The company’s ability to sustain long-term growth and successfully execute the strategies discussed above depends in part on the company’s ability to manage the competitive landscape, the current challenges in the commercial and credit environment, and other risk factors described under the caption “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

 17   

 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

 Net Sales  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Foreign currency unfavorably impacted net sales by 5 percentage points in 2009 due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies, including the Euro and the British Pound. Foreign currency favorably impacted net sales growth by 4 percentage points in 2008 principally due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies, including the Euro.  

 BioScience The following is a summary of sales by product category in the BioScience segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net sales in the BioScience segment increased 5% and 14% in 2009 and 2008, respectively (including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 5 percentage points in 2009 and a favorable foreign currency impact of 3 percentage points in 2008). Sales growth in the BioScience segment in both years was driven by increased demand across a majority of the product categories and improved pricing for select products. Sales growth in the Recombinants product category in both 2009 and 2008 was the result of the continued adoption of the company’s advanced recombinant therapy, ADVATE. Strong demand for FEIBA (an anti-inhibitor coagulant complex) and plasma-derived factor VIII, and improved pricing and increased demand for albumin drove sales growth in the Plasma Proteins product category in both years. Also contributing to the 2009 growth was increased market penetration in the United States of ARALAST [alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor (human)]. Antibody Therapy product category sales growth in both years was the result of improved pricing and increased demand for GAMMAGARD LIQUID therapy. Also contributing to the sales growth in both years was increased demand for the company’s fibrin sealant product, FLOSEAL, in the Regenerative Medicine product category. Net sales in the company’s Other product category declined in both years. In 2009, the addition of international sales of CELVAPAN H1N1 pandemic vaccine and increased sales of NEISVAC-C (for the prevention of meningitis C) were more than offset by    

 18   

 lower international sales of FSME-IMMUN (a tick-borne encephalitis vaccine) and a reduction in pandemic influenza vaccine advance purchase agreements (APAs). In 2008, strong international sales of FSME-IMMUN and influenza vaccines, including approximately $50 million of revenue in 2008 relating to a large pandemic influenza vaccine APA, were more than offset by the negative impact related to the transfer of marketing and distribution rights for BENEFIX back to Wyeth effective June 30, 2007. Sales of BENEFIX were approximately $110 million in 2007. On February 28, 2007, the company sold substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the Transfusion Therapies (TT) business. Refer to Note 3 for additional information regarding the TT business.  

 Medication Delivery The following is a summary of sales by product category in the Medication Delivery segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net sales in the Medication Delivery segment increased 2% and 8% in 2009 and 2008, respectively (including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 5 percentage points in 2009 and a favorable foreign currency impact of 3 percentage points in 2008). Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales in the IV Therapies product category grew in both years as a result of increased demand, particularly in international markets, and improved pricing in the United States, for IV solutions and nutritional products. Strong sales of select multi-source generic products and growth in the company’s international pharmacy compounding and U.S. pharmaceutical partnering businesses drove double-digit sales growth in the Global Injectables product category in 2009, excluding the impact of foreign currency. In 2008, strong international sales in the pharmacy compounding business were partially offset by decreased sales of generic injectables, primarily driven by the decline in generic propofol and heparin sales. The decline in generic propofol sales was due to the transfer of marketing and distribution rights for propofol back to Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. effective July 1, 2007. Sales of propofol totaled approximately $40 million in 2007. The decline in heparin sales was due to the company’s recall of heparin sodium injection products in the United States in 2008. Sales of these heparin products totaled approximately $30 million in 2007. In the Infusion Systems product category, sales declined in 2009 as a result of lower revenues from disposable tubing sets used in the administration of IV solutions and lower international sales of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, partially offset by sales of SPECTRUM infusion pumps as a result of the 2009 distribution agreement with SIGMA. Sales growth in this product category in 2008 was due to increased international sales of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps and increased sales of disposable tubing sets. Growth in both 2009 and 2008 in the Anesthesia product category was driven by increased sales of SUPRANE (desflurane) and sevoflurane. The company continues to benefit from its position as the only global supplier of all three modern inhaled anesthetics (SUPRANE, sevoflurane and isoflurane). Refer to Note 4 for additional information on the SIGMA arrangement and Note 11 for additional information regarding heparin.   

 19   

 Renal The following is a summary of sales by product category in the Renal segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net sales in the Renal segment decreased 2% in 2009 and increased 3% in 2008 (including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 6 percentage points in 2009 and a favorable foreign currency impact of 5 percentage points in 2008). Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales in the PD Therapy product category grew in 2009 as the result of gains in the number of PD patients, particularly in the United States, Latin America and Eastern Europe, with double-digit growth across Asia. Penetration of PD Therapy products continues to be strong in emerging markets where many people with end-stage renal disease have historically been under-treated. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales in the PD Therapy product category declined in 2008 as gains in the number of PD patients in Asia (particularly in China), Central and Eastern Europe and the United States were more than offset by the impact of a government tender loss in Mexico in the first quarter of 2008. The 2008 impact of the lost Mexican tender was estimated to be approximately $100 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, net sales in the HD Therapy product category were flat in 2009 and declined in 2008 as lower saline sales in both years were offset in 2009 by sales related to the company’s acquisition of Edwards CRRT and, in 2008, partially offset by higher revenues from the company’s Renal Therapy Services (RTS) business, which operates dialysis centers in partnership with local physicians in select countries. Refer to Note 4 for additional information regarding the acquisition of Edwards CRRT.  

 Transition Services to Fenwal Inc. Net sales in this category represent revenues associated with manufacturing, distribution and other services provided by the company to Fenwal Inc. (Fenwal) subsequent to the divestiture of the TT business on February 28, 2007. Revenues declined in 2009 as certain of the transition services agreements terminated in 2008. See Note 3 for additional information regarding the TT business divestiture.  

 Gross Margin and Expense Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Gross Margin  

 The increase in gross margin in 2009 and 2008 was principally driven by improvements in sales mix across all three segments, manufacturing cost and yield improvements, as well as improved pricing for select products. Contributing to the gross margin improvement was the continued customer conversion to ADVATE therapy, increased demand and improved pricing for GAMMAGARD LIQUID therapy and certain other plasma protein and nutritional products; and increased demand for IV solutions, global injectables and anesthesia products. Partially offsetting the gross margin improvement was the unfavorable impact of lower FSME-IMMUN vaccine revenues.  

 Included in the company’s gross margin in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $27 million, $125 million and $14 million, respectively, of charges and other costs related to COLLEAGUE infusion pumps and the SYNDEO PCA Syringe Pump. Also included in gross margin in 2009 was $30 million of the company’s $79 million cost optimization charge recognized in the fourth quarter, which relates to actions the company is taking to optimize its overall cost structure on a global basis. These charges decreased the gross margin by approximately 0.5, 1.1 and 0.1 percentage points in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Refer to Note 5 for additional information on these charges and costs.   

 20   

 Marketing and Administrative Expenses  

 The marketing and administrative expense ratio declined in 2009 and 2008. The ratio in both years was favorably impacted by leverage from higher sales and stronger cost controls, partially offset by spending relating to new marketing programs. Unfavorably impacting the marketing and administrative expense ratio in 2009 was $49 million of the company’s $79 million cost optimization charge recognized in the fourth quarter, as discussed in Note 5. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact on the marketing and administrative expense ratio in 2009 and a favorable impact in 2008. Also unfavorably impacting the marketing and administrative expense ratio in 2007 was a charge of $56 million to establish reserves related to the average wholesale pricing (AWP) litigation, as discussed in Note 11. These charges increased the marketing and administrative expense ratio by approximately 0.3 and 0.5 percentage points in 2009 and 2007, respectively.  

 Pension Plan Costs  

 Fluctuations in pension plan costs impacted the company’s gross margin and expense ratios. Pension plan costs increased $18 million in 2009 and decreased $15 million in 2008, as detailed in Note 9. The $18 million increase in 2009 was principally due to an increase in loss amortization related to asset performance and demographic experience, partially offset by the impact of the company’s contributions to its pension plans and higher interest rates used to discount the plans’ projected benefit obligations. The $15 million decrease in 2008 was principally due to an increase in the interest rate used to discount the plans’ projected benefit obligations and lower loss amortization related to asset performance from prior years, partially offset by the impact of changes to certain other assumptions.  

 Costs of the company’s pension plans are expected to increase from $155 million in 2009 to approximately $176 million in 2010, principally due to lower interest rates used to discount the plans’ projected benefit obligations and an increase in loss amortization related to asset performance, partially offset by the impact of a $300 million discretionary cash contribution made to the pension plan in the United States in January 2010. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below for further information on the funding of pension plans. For the domestic plans, the discount rate will decrease to 6.05% from 6.5% and the expected return on plan assets will remain at 8.5% for 2010. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section below for a discussion of how the pension plan assumptions are developed, mortality tables are selected, and actuarial losses are amortized, and the impact of these factors on pension plan cost.  

 Research and Development  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 R&D expenses increased in both 2009 and 2008, reflecting the company’s continued focus on innovation and investments across its business portfolio to advance and expand its product pipeline. Foreign currency had a favorable impact on R&D expense growth in 2009 and an unfavorable impact in 2008.  

 In 2009, the company had a number of product launches and continued to make progress with respect to its internal R&D pipeline and R&D collaborations with partners. Key developments included the following:  

 Product Approvals and Launches  

    •   Marketing authorization from the European Commission for CELVAPAN H1N1 pandemic vaccine using Baxter’s Vero cell technology; CELVAPAN H1N1 is the first cell culture-based and non-adjuvanted pandemic influenza vaccine to receive marketing authorization in the European Union;   

    •   Launch of HYLENEX recombinant (hyaluronidase human injection) in the United States for use in pediatric rehydration; providing a subcutaneous alternative to IV administration of fluids;     

 21   

    •   Launch of OLIMEL, the company’s latest triple-chamber container system for parenteral nutrition, in certain European markets; and   

    •   Launch of ADVATE and RECOMBINATE therapies and sevoflurane in additional international markets.    

 Other Developments  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 R&D expenses in 2008 included IPR&D charges totaling $19 million principally related to an in-licensing agreement with Innocoll Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (Innocoll). R&D expenses in 2007 included IPR&D charges totaling $50 million, related to a collaboration with HHD, LLC (HHD) and DEKA Products Limited Partnership and DEKA Research and Development Corp. (collectively, DEKA); arrangements with Halozyme; a distribution agreement with Nycomed Pharma AS (Nycomed); and an amendment of the company’s collaboration with Nektar Therapeutics (Nektar). Refer to Note 4 for more information regarding the 2008 agreement with Innocoll, as well as the investments made in 2007.  

 Restructuring Charge  

 In 2007, the company recorded a restructuring charge of $70 million principally associated with the consolidation of certain commercial and manufacturing operations outside of the United States. Based on a review of current and future capacity needs, the company decided to integrate several facilities to reduce the company’s cost structure and optimize operations, principally in the Medication Delivery segment. Refer to Note 5 for additional information, including details regarding reserve utilization.  

 Net Interest Expense  

 Net interest expense increased $22 million in 2009, principally due to the impact of lower interest rates on interest income. Also contributing to the increase in net interest expense in 2009 was the impact of a higher average net debt balance due to the February 2009 issuance of $350 million of senior unsecured notes due 2014 and the August 2009 issuance of $500 million of senior unsecured notes due 2019. Net interest expense increased $54 million in 2008, principally due to lower interest income resulting from lower U.S. interest rates and a lower average cash balance, a higher average debt balance and the termination of the company’s cross-currency swap agreements. The higher average debt balance in 2008 was principally due to the December 2007 issuance of $500 million of senior unsecured notes due 2037 and the May 2008 issuance of $500 million    

 22   

 of senior unsecured notes due 2018. Refer to Note 2 for a summary of the components of net interest expense for the three years ended December 31, 2009.  

 Other Expense, Net  

 Other expense, net was $45 million in 2009, $26 million in 2008 and $18 million in 2007. Refer to Note 2 for a table that details the components of other expense, net for the three years ended December 31, 2009. Other expense, net in each year included amounts relating to equity method investments and foreign currency fluctuations, principally relating to intercompany receivables, payables and loans denominated in a foreign currency. In 2009, other expense, net included a charge of $54 million associated with the discontinuation of the company’s SOLOMIX drug delivery system in development. In 2008, other expense, net included a charge of $31 million associated with the discontinuation of the company’s CLEARSHOT pre-filled syringe program and $16 million of income related to the finalization of the net assets transferred in the TT divestiture. In 2007, other expense, net included a gain on the sale of the TT business of $58 million less a charge of $35 million associated with severance and other employee-related costs. Refer to Note 3 for further information regarding the divestiture and Note 5 for further information on the SOLOMIX and CLEARSHOT charges.  

 Pre-Tax Income  

 Refer to Note 12 for a summary of financial results by segment. Certain items are maintained at the company’s corporate level and are not allocated to a segment. The following is a summary of significant factors impacting the segments’ financial results.  

 BioScience Pre-tax income increased 5% in 2009 and 21% in 2008. The primary drivers of the increase in pre-tax income in both years were continued gross margin expansion driven by strong sales of higher-margin products, fueled principally by the continued customer adoption of ADVATE therapy and increased demand and improved pricing for GAMMAGARD LIQUID therapy and certain other plasma protein products, as well as continued manufacturing improvements. Partially offsetting the growth in both years was increased R&D spending and, in 2009, the unfavorable impact of lower FSME-IMMUN vaccine sales. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact on 2009 growth and a favorable impact on 2008 growth.  

 Medication Delivery Pre-tax income increased 28% in 2009 and decreased 15% in 2008. Included in pre-tax income in 2009, 2008 and 2007, and impacting the earnings trend, were $27 million, $125 million and $14 million, respectively, of charges and other costs relating to the COLLEAGUE and SYNDEO infusion pumps, as discussed above. Also included in the pre-tax income in 2009 was a $54 million charge related to the discontinuation of the company’s SOLOMIX drug delivery system in development. Included in pre-tax income in 2008 was a $31 million charge related to the discontinuation of the CLEARSHOT pre-filled syringe program. Aside from the impact of these items, pre-tax earnings in 2009 and 2008 benefited from gross margin improvements resulting from favorable product mix, principally from increased sales of IV solutions, global injectables, anesthesia and nutritional products. Partially offsetting these increases in 2008 were increased spending on R&D and the unfavorable impact of competition for the company’s generic products. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact on growth in 2009 and a favorable impact on growth in 2008. Refer to Note 5 for further information on the infusion pump, SOLOMIX and CLEARSHOT charges.  

 Renal Pre-tax income decreased 4% in 2009 and 17% in 2008. The pre-tax earnings declined in both years principally due to increased R&D spending, including the development of home HD therapy, and in 2008, the loss of a PD tender in Mexico. The Renal segment’s revenues are generated principally outside the United States, and foreign currency had an unfavorable impact in 2009 and a favorable impact in 2008 to pre-tax income.  

 Other As mentioned above, certain income and expense amounts are not allocated to a segment. These amounts are detailed in the table in Note 12 and include net interest expense, certain foreign exchange fluctuations (principally relating to intercompany receivables, payables and loans denominated in a foreign currency) and the majority of the foreign currency hedging activities, corporate headquarters costs, stock compensation expense, income and expense related to certain non-strategic investments, certain employee benefit plan costs, certain nonrecurring gains and losses, certain charges (such as cost optimization,    

 23   

 restructuring, certain litigation-related and certain IPR&D charges), and the revenues and costs related to the manufacturing, distribution and other transition agreements with Fenwal.  

 Refer to the previous discussions for further information regarding net interest expense, the cost optimization and restructuring charges, IPR&D charges, the charge associated with the AWP litigation, the net divestiture gain and ongoing arrangements with Fenwal related to the sale of the TT business and Note 8 for further information regarding stock compensation expense.  

 Income Taxes  

 Effective Income Tax Rate  

 The effective income tax rate was 19% in 2009, 18% in 2008 and 19% in 2007. The company anticipates that the effective income tax rate, calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), will be approximately 19% to 19.5% in 2010, excluding any impact from additional audit developments or other special items.  

 The company’s effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate each year due to certain operations that are subject to tax incentives, state and local taxes and foreign taxes that are different than the U.S. federal statutory rate. In addition, as discussed further below, the company’s effective income tax rate can be impacted in each year by discrete factors or events. Refer to Note 10 for further information regarding the company’s income taxes.  

 2009  

 The effective tax rate for 2009 was impacted by greater income in jurisdictions with higher tax rates, partially offset by $51 million of income tax benefit from planning that accessed foreign tax losses.  

 2008  

 The effective tax rate for 2008 was impacted by $29 million of valuation allowance reductions on net operating loss carryforwards in foreign jurisdictions due to profitability improvements, $8 million of income tax benefit related to the extension of R&D tax credits in the United States and $14 million of additional U.S. income tax expense related to foreign earnings which are no longer considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States because the company planned to remit these earnings to the United States in the foreseeable future.  

 2007  

 The effective tax rate for 2007 was impacted by a $38 million net reduction of the valuation allowance on net operating loss carryforwards primarily due to profitability improvements in a foreign jurisdiction, a $12 million reduction in tax expense due to legislation reducing corporate income tax rates in Germany, the extension of tax incentives, and the settlement of tax audits in jurisdictions outside of the United States. Partially offsetting these items was $82 million of U.S. income tax expense related to foreign earnings which are no longer considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States because the company planned to remit these earnings to the United States in the foreseeable future.  

 Uncertain Tax Positions  

 Baxter expects to reduce the amount of its liability for uncertain tax positions within the next 12 months by $302 million due principally to the expiration of certain statutes of limitations related to tax benefits recorded in respect of losses from restructuring certain international operations and the settlements of certain multi-jurisdictional transfer pricing issues. While the final outcome of these matters is inherently uncertain, the company believes it has made adequate tax provisions for all years subject to examination.  

 Income and Earnings per Diluted Share Amounts  

 Net income attributable to Baxter was $2.2 billion in 2009, $2.0 billion in 2008 and $1.7 billion in 2007. The corresponding net earnings per diluted share were $3.59 in 2009, $3.16 in 2008 and $2.61 in 2007. The significant factors and events causing the net changes from 2008 to 2009 and from 2007 to 2008 are discussed above.   

 24   

 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

 Cash Flows from Operations  

 Cash flows from operations increased in both 2009 and 2008, totaling $2.9 billion in 2009, $2.5 billion in 2008 and $2.3 billion in 2007. The increases in cash flows in 2009 and 2008 were primarily due to higher earnings (before non-cash items) and the other factors discussed below. Included in cash flows from operations were outflows of $96 million in 2009 and $112 million in 2008 related to realized excess tax benefits from stock issued under employee benefit plans. Realized excess tax benefits are required to be presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an outflow within the operating section and an inflow within the financing section.  

 Accounts Receivable  

 Cash outflows relating to accounts receivable increased in 2009 and decreased in 2008. Days sales outstanding increased from 50.6 days at December 31, 2008 to 51.2 days at December 31, 2009, primarily due to the geographic mix of sales, an increase in collection periods in certain international locations and a decrease in factoring of receivables, partially offset by improved collection periods in the United States. The decrease in cash outflows from accounts receivables in 2008 was primarily due to an improvement in the collection of receivables in the United States and in certain international locations.  

 Inventories  

 Cash outflows from inventories decreased in 2009 and 2008. The following is a summary of inventories at December 31, 2009 and 2008, as well as inventory turns for 2009, 2008 and 2007, by segment. Inventory turns for the year are calculated as the annualized fourth quarter cost of sales divided by the year-end inventory balance.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Inventories increased $196 million in 2009, with more than half of the increase related to the impact of foreign currency. The higher inventory turns for the total company were principally due to increased sales in the Medication Delivery segment, partially offset by an increase in plasma-related inventories in the BioScience segment.  

 Other  

 Cash flows related to liabilities, restructuring payments and other increased in 2009. This increase was principally driven by the timing of payments of trade accounts payable and income taxes payable, partially offset by contributions to the company’s pension plans of $170 million in 2009 compared to $287 million in 2008. Cash flows decreased in 2008 principally due to contributions to the company’s pension plans, the timing of payments of trade accounts payable and income taxes payable, and increased payments related to the company’s restructuring programs. Included in both 2008 and 2007 were cash outflows related to the settlement of mirror cross-currency swaps, which resulted in operating cash inflows of $12 million in 2008 compared to $31 million of cash outflows in 2007. There were no settlements of cross-currency swaps during 2009.  

 Cash Flows from Investing Activities  

 Capital Expenditures  

 Capital expenditures totaled $1.0 billion in 2009, $954 million in 2008 and $692 million in 2007. The investments in 2009 were focused on projects that enhance the company’s cost structure and manufacturing    

 25   

 capabilities across the three businesses, particularly as it relates to the company’s nutritional, anesthesia and PD products and plasma and recombinant manufacturing platforms. In addition, the company continues to invest to support its strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets, and continues to invest to support the company’s ongoing strategic focus on R&D with the expansion of research facilities, pilot manufacturing sites and laboratories.  

 The company makes investments in capital expenditures at a level sufficient to support the strategic and operating needs of the businesses, and continues to improve capital allocation discipline in making investments to enhance long-term growth. The company expects to invest approximately $1 billion in capital expenditures in 2010.  

 Acquisitions of and Investments in Businesses and Technologies  

 Net cash outflows relating to acquisitions of and investments in businesses and technologies were $156 million in 2009, $99 million in 2008 and $112 million in 2007. The cash outflows in 2009 principally related to a $100 million payment for the exclusive distribution of SIGMA’s infusion pumps in the United States and international markets, a 40 percent equity stake in SIGMA and an option to purchase the remaining portion of SIGMA. Additionally, in 2009 the company acquired Edwards CRRT, for $56 million. The cash outflows in 2008 principally related to an IV solutions business in China, the company’s in-licensing agreement to market and distribute Innocoll’s gentamicin surgical implant in the United States, the acquisition of certain technology applicable to the BioScience business, payments related to the company’s agreements with Nycomed and Nektar, and certain smaller acquisitions and investments. The cash outflows in 2007 principally related to a new arrangement and the expansion of the company’s existing agreements with Halozyme and the company’s collaboration with DEKA. Refer to Note 4 for further information regarding these investments.  

 Divestitures and Other  

 Net cash inflows relating to divestitures and other activities were $24 million in 2009, $60 million in 2008 and $499 million in 2007. Cash inflows in 2009 and 2008 principally consisted of cash collections from customers relating to previously securitized receivables under the company’s European receivables securitization facility. In 2007, the company purchased the third party interest in previously sold receivables under the facility, resulting in net cash outflows of $157 million. Cash inflows in 2007 included $421 million of cash proceeds from the divestiture of the TT business. The $421 million represented the $473 million total cash received upon divestiture less the $52 million prepayment related to the manufacturing, distribution and other transition agreements, which was classified in the operating section of the consolidated statement of cash flows. Cash inflows in 2009, 2008 and 2007 also included normal collections on retained interests associated with securitization arrangements.  

 Cash Flows from Financing Activities  

 Debt Issuances, Net of Payments of Obligations  

 Debt issuances, net of payments of obligations, were net inflows totaling $473 million in 2009 compared to net outflows totaling $79 million in 2008 and $51 million in 2007. Included in these totals in 2008 and 2007 were $540 million and $303 million, respectively, of cash outflows related to the settlement of cross-currency swap agreements, resulting in the termination of the company’s remaining net investment hedges. There were no settlements of cross-currency swap agreements in 2009.  

 The company issued $350 million of senior unsecured notes, which mature in March 2014 and bear a 4.0% coupon rate in February 2009 and $500 million of senior unsecured notes, which mature in August 2019 and bear a 4.5% coupon rate in August 2009. In May 2008, the company issued $500 million of senior unsecured notes, maturing in June 2018 and bearing a 5.375% coupon rate. In addition, during 2008, the company issued commercial paper, of which $200 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2008, with a weighted-average interest rate of 2.55%. In December 2007, the company issued $500 million of senior unsecured notes, maturing in December 2037 and bearing a 6.25% coupon rate. The net proceeds from these issuances were used for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of $200 million of outstanding commercial paper in 2009 and for the settlement of cross-currency swaps in 2008. In 2009, the company repaid approximately $160 million of outstanding borrowings related to the company’s Euro-denominated credit facility (further    

 26   

 discussed below). The company repaid its 5.196% notes, which approximated $250 million, upon their maturity in February 2008.  

 Other Financing Activities  

 Cash dividend payments totaled $632 million in 2009, $546 million in 2008 and $704 million in 2007. Beginning in 2007, the company converted from an annual to a quarterly dividend and increased the dividend by 15% on an annualized basis, to $0.1675 per share per quarter. The cash dividend payments in 2007 included the payments of the 2006 annual dividend and three 2007 quarterly dividends. In November 2007, the board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.2175 per share ($0.87 per share on an annualized basis), representing an increase of 30% over the previous quarterly rate. In November 2008, the board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.26 per share ($1.04 per share on an annualized basis), representing an increase of 20% over the previous quarterly rate of $0.2175 per share. In November 2009, the board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.29 per share ($1.16 per share on an annualized basis), which was paid on January 5, 2010 to shareholders of record as of December 10, 2009. This dividend represented an increase of 12% over the previous quarterly rate of $0.26 per share.  

 Proceeds and realized excess tax benefits from stock issued under employee benefit plans totaled $381 million in 2009, $680 million in 2008 and $639 million in 2007. The decrease in 2009 was due to a decrease in stock option exercises. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to increased participation in the company’s employee stock purchase plan and an increase in realized excess tax benefits from stock issued under employee benefit plans partially offset by a decrease in stock option exercises.  

 As authorized by the board of directors, the company repurchases its stock from time to time depending on the company’s cash flows, net debt level and market conditions. The company purchased 23 million shares for $1.2 billion in 2009, 32 million shares for $2.0 billion in 2008 and 34 million shares for $1.9 billion in 2007. In March 2008, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of the company’s common stock. There is no remaining availability under the March 2008 authorization as of December 31, 2009. In July 2009, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $2.0 billion of the company’s common stock. At December 31, 2009, $1.95 billion remained available under the July 2009 authorization.  

 Credit Facilities, Access to Capital, Credit Ratings and Net Investment Hedges  

 Credit Facilities  

 The company’s primary revolving credit facility has a maximum capacity of $1.5 billion and matures in December 2011. The company also maintains a Euro-denominated credit facility with a maximum capacity of approximately $435 million at December 31, 2009, which matures in January 2013. As of December 31, 2008, there was $164 million outstanding under the Euro-denominated credit facility, with a weighted-average interest rate of 3.4%. In 2009, the company repaid the outstanding Euro-denominated credit facility borrowings. As of December 31, 2009, there were no outstanding borrowings under either of the two outstanding facilities. The company’s facilities enable the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates, and contain various covenants, including a maximum net-debt-to-capital ratio. At December 31, 2009, the company was in compliance with the financial covenants in these agreements. The non-performance of any financial institution supporting either of the credit facilities would reduce the maximum capacity of these facilities by each institution’s respective commitment. The company also maintains other credit arrangements, as described in Note 6.  

 Access to Capital  

 The company intends to fund short-term and long-term obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from operations or by issuing additional debt or common stock. The company had $2.8 billion of cash and equivalents at December 31, 2009. The company invests its excess cash in certificates of deposit and money market funds, and diversifies the concentration of cash among different financial institutions.   

 27   

 The company’s ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company’s products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, deterioration in the company’s key financial ratios or credit ratings or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. However, the company believes it has sufficient financial flexibility in the future to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support the company’s growth objectives.  

 While the current economic downturn has not meaningfully impacted the company’s ability to collect receivables, the company continues to do business with certain foreign governments which have recently experienced credit rating downgrades and may become unable to pay for the company’s products or services.  

 Credit Ratings  

 The company’s credit ratings at December 31, 2009 were as follows.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 There were no changes to the company’s credit ratings in 2009.  

 If Baxter’s credit ratings or outlooks were to be downgraded, the company’s financing costs related to its credit arrangements and any future debt issuances could be unfavorably impacted. However, any future credit rating downgrade or change in outlook would not affect the company’s ability to draw on its credit facilities, and would not result in an acceleration of the scheduled maturities of any of the company’s outstanding debt, unless, with respect to certain debt instruments, preceded by a change in control of the company.  

 Net Investment Hedges  

 In 2008, the company terminated its remaining net investment hedge portfolio and no longer has any outstanding net investment hedges. The company historically hedged the net assets of certain of its foreign operations using a combination of foreign currency denominated debt and cross-currency swaps. In 2004, the company reevaluated its net investment hedge strategy and elected to reduce the use of these instruments as a risk management tool. As part of the change in strategy the company executed offsetting, or mirror, cross-currency swaps relating to over half of the existing portfolio that effectively fixed the net amount that the company would ultimately pay to settle the cross-currency swap agreements subject to this strategy. The net after-tax losses related to net investment hedge instruments recorded in other comprehensive income were $33 million and $48 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

 When the cross-currency swaps are settled, the cash flows are reported within the financing section of the consolidated statement of cash flows. When the mirror swaps are settled, the cash flows are reported in the operating section of the consolidated statement of cash flows. Of the $528 million of net settlement payments in 2008, $540 million of cash outflows were included in the financing section and $12 million of cash inflows were included in the operating section. Of the $334 million of settlement payments in 2007, $303 million of cash outflows were included in the financing section and $31 million of cash outflows were included in the operating section.   

 28   

 Contractual Obligations  

 As of December 31, 2009, the company had contractual obligations (excluding accounts payable, accrued liabilities (other than the current portion of unrecognized tax benefits) and contingent liabilities) payable or maturing in the following periods.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  1   Interest payments on debt and capital lease obligations are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2009. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest rate and cross-currency swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates, foreign currency fluctuations or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2009. Refer to Notes 6 and 7 for further discussion regarding the company’s debt instruments and related cross-currency and interest rate agreements outstanding at December 31, 2009.  

  2   The primary components of other long-term liabilities in the company’s consolidated balance sheet are liabilities relating to pension and other postemployment benefit plans, cross-currency swaps, foreign currency hedges, litigation and certain income tax-related liabilities. The company projected the timing of the future cash payments based on contractual maturity dates (where applicable) and estimates of the timing of payments (for liabilities with no contractual maturity dates). The actual timing of payments could differ from the estimates.  

     The company contributed $170 million, $287 million and $47 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Most of the company’s plans are funded. The timing of funding in the future is uncertain and is dependent on future movements in interest rates and investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Therefore, the table above excludes pension plan cash outflows. Refer to the discussion below regarding the Pension Protection Act of 2006. The pension plan balance included in other long-term liabilities (and excluded from the table above) totaled $1.1 billion at December 31, 2009.  

  3   Includes the company’s significant contractual unconditional purchase obligations. For cancelable agreements, includes any penalty due upon cancellation. These commitments do not exceed the company’s projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Examples include firm commitments for raw material purchases, utility agreements and service contracts.  

  4   Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions, the long-term liability relating to unrecognized tax benefits of $94 million at December 31, 2009 has been excluded from the table above.   

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 Baxter periodically enters into off-balance sheet arrangements where economical and consistent with the company’s business strategy. Certain contingencies arise in the normal course of business, and are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet in accordance with GAAP (such as contingent joint development and commercialization arrangement payments). Also, upon resolution of uncertainties, the company may incur    

 29   

 charges in excess of presently established liabilities for certain matters (such as contractual indemnifications). The following is a summary of significant off-balance sheet arrangements and contingencies.  

 Receivable Securitizations  

 Where economical, the company has entered into agreements with various financial institutions in which the entire interest in and ownership of the receivable is sold, principally consisting of trade receivables originated in Japan. The company had also entered into agreements in which undivided interests in certain pools of receivables were sold, principally consisting of hardware lease receivables originated in the United States and trade receivables originated in Europe. Refer to Note 7 for a description of these arrangements. The Japanese securitization arrangement includes limited recourse provisions, which are not material to the consolidated financial statements.  

 Joint Development and Commercialization Arrangements  

 In the normal course of business, Baxter enters into joint development and commercialization arrangements with third parties, sometimes with companies in which the company has invested. The arrangements vary but generally provide that Baxter will receive certain rights to manufacture, market or distribute a specified technology or product under development in exchange for up-front payments and contingent payments relating to the achievement of specified pre-clinical, clinical, regulatory approval or sales milestones. At December 31, 2009, the unfunded milestone payments under these arrangements totaled $812 million. This total excludes any contingent royalties. Based on the company’s projections, any contingent payments made in the future will be more than offset over time by the estimated net future cash flows relating to the rights acquired for those payments. The majority of the contingent payments relate to arrangements in the BioScience segment. Refer to Note 6 for further information.  

 Indemnifications  

 During the normal course of business, Baxter makes indemnities, commitments and guarantees pursuant to which the company may be required to make payments related to specific transactions. Indemnifications include: (i) intellectual property indemnities to customers in connection with the use, sale or license of products and services; (ii) indemnities to customers in connection with losses incurred while performing services on their premises; (iii) indemnities to vendors and service providers pertaining to claims based on negligence or willful misconduct; and (iv) indemnities involving the representations and warranties in certain contracts. In addition, under Baxter’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and consistent with Delaware General Corporation Law, the company has agreed to indemnify its directors and officers for certain losses and expenses upon the occurrence of prescribed events. The majority of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees do not provide for any limitation on the maximum potential for future payments that the company could be obligated to make. To help address some these risks, the company maintains various insurance coverages. Based on historical experience and evaluation of the agreements, the company does not believe that any significant payments related to its indemnifications will result, and therefore the company has not recorded any associated liabilities.  

 Legal Contingencies  

 Refer to Note 11 for a discussion of the company’s legal contingencies. Upon resolution of any of these uncertainties, the company may incur charges in excess of presently established liabilities. While the liability of the company in connection with the claims cannot be estimated with any certainty, and although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a significant impact on the company’s results of operations and cash flows for that period, the outcome of these legal proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated financial position. While the company believes that it has valid defenses in these matters, litigation is inherently uncertain, excessive verdicts do occur, and the company may in the future incur material judgments or enter into material settlements of claims.   

 30   

 Funding of Pension and Other Postemployment Benefit Plans  

 The company’s funding policy for its pension plans is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet legal funding requirements, plus any additional amounts that the company may determine to be appropriate considering the funded status of the plans, tax deductibility, the cash flows generated by the company and other factors. Volatility in the global financial markets could have an unfavorable impact on future funding requirements. The company is not legally obligated to fund its principal plans in the United States and Puerto Rico in 2010. The company continually reassesses the amount and timing of any discretionary contributions. The company expects to make cash contributions to its pension plans of at least $335 million in 2010, which includes a $300 million discretionary cash contribution made to its pension plan in the United States in January 2010. The company expects to have net cash outflows relating to its other postemployment benefit (OPEB) plan of approximately $25 million in 2010.  

 The table below details the funded status percentage of the company’s pension plans as of December 31, 2009, including certain plans that are unfunded in accordance with the guidelines of the company’s funding policy outlined above. The table excludes the $300 million discretionary cash contribution made to the pension plan in the United States in January 2010. Refer to Note 9 for further information.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) was signed into law on August 17, 2006. It is likely that the PPA will accelerate minimum funding requirements in the future.  

 Insurance Coverage  

 The company discontinued its practice of buying product liability insurance coverage effective May 1, 2007. The unavailability of insurance coverage with meaningful limits at a reasonable cost reflects current trends in product liability insurance for healthcare manufacturing companies generally. The company continues to evaluate available coverage levels and costs as market conditions change. The company’s net income and cash flows may be adversely affected in the future as a result of losses sustained.  

 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK  

 The company operates on a global basis, and is exposed to the risk that its earnings, cash flows and shareholders’ equity could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. The company’s hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company’s judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. Refer to Note 7 for further information regarding the company’s financial instruments and hedging strategies.  

 Currency Risk  

 The company is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to recognized assets and liabilities, forecasted transactions and net assets denominated in the Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real and Colombian Peso. The company manages its foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows the company to net exposures and take advantage of any natural offsets. In addition, the company uses derivative and nonderivative financial instruments to further reduce the net exposure to foreign exchange. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and shareholders’ equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. Financial market and currency volatility may reduce the benefits of the company’s natural hedges and limit the company’s ability to cost-effectively hedge these exposures.  

 The company uses options, forwards and cross-currency swaps to hedge the foreign exchange risk to earnings relating to forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies and recognized assets and liabilities. The maximum term over which the company has cash flow hedge contracts in place related to forecasted    

 31   

 transactions at December 31, 2009 is 12 months. The company also enters into derivative instruments to hedge certain intercompany and third-party receivables and payables and debt denominated in foreign currencies. The company historically hedged certain of its net investments in international affiliates, using a combination of debt denominated in foreign currencies and cross-currency swap agreements. As further discussed in Note 7, in 2008, the company terminated all of its remaining net investment hedges.  

 Currency restrictions enacted in Venezuela require Baxter to obtain approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan Bolivars for U.S. Dollars and requires such exchange to be made at the official exchange rate established by the government. On January 8, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued the official exchange rate of 2.15 relative to the U.S. Dollar. The official exchange rate for imported goods classified as essential, such as food and medicine, was changed to 2.6, while the rate for payments for non-essential goods was changed to 4.3. The company expects that the majority of its products imported into Venezuela will be classified as essential goods and qualify for the 2.6 rate. The 4.3 rate was used for the translation of the company’s Venezuelan subsidiary at December 31, 2009, because this is the rate at which dividends are expected to be remitted if and when such dividends are approved by the Venezuelan government. As of January 1, 2010, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy under GAAP and as a result, the functional currency of the company’s subsidiary in Venezuela will be the U.S. Dollar. The devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar and designation of Venezuela as highly inflationary is not expected to have a material impact on the financial results of the company. As of December 31, 2009, the company’s subsidiary in Venezuela had net assets of $20 million denominated in the Venezuelan Bolivar. In 2009, net sales in Venezuela represented less than 1% of Baxter’s total net sales.  

 As part of its risk-management program, the company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in the fair value of its foreign exchange instruments relating to hypothetical and reasonably possible near-term movements in foreign exchange rates.  

 A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange option, forward and cross-currency swap contracts outstanding at December 31, 2009, while not predictive in nature, indicated that if the U.S. Dollar uniformly fluctuated unfavorably by 10% against all currencies, on a net-of-tax basis, the net liability balance of $69 million with respect to those contracts, which principally related to a hedge of U.S. Dollar-denominated debt issued by a foreign subsidiary, would increase by $69 million. A similar analysis performed with respect to option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2008 indicated that, on a net-of-tax basis, the net asset balance of $40 million would decrease by $65 million, resulting in a net liability position.  

 The sensitivity analysis model recalculates the fair value of the foreign exchange option, forward and cross-currency swap contracts outstanding at December 31, 2009 by replacing the actual exchange rates at December 31, 2009 with exchange rates that are 10% unfavorable to the actual exchange rates for each applicable currency. All other factors are held constant. These sensitivity analyses disregard the possibility that currency exchange rates can move in opposite directions and that gains from one currency may or may not be offset by losses from another currency. The analyses also disregard the offsetting change in value of the underlying hedged transactions and balances.  

 Interest Rate and Other Risks  

 The company is also exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. The company’s policy is to manage interest costs using a mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt that the company believes is appropriate. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient manner, the company periodically enters into interest rate swaps in which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. The company also periodically uses forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to hedge the risk to earnings associated with fluctuations in interest rates relating to anticipated issuances of term debt.  

 As part of its risk management program, the company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential gains and losses in earnings relating to hypothetical movements in interest rates. A 52 basis-point increase in interest    

 32   

 rates (approximately 10% of the company’s weighted-average interest rate during 2009) affecting the company’s financial instruments, including debt obligations and related derivatives, would have an immaterial effect on the company’s 2009, 2008 and 2007 earnings and on the fair value of the company’s fixed-rate debt as of the end of each fiscal year.  

 As discussed in Note 7, the fair values of the company’s long-term litigation liabilities and related insurance receivables were computed by discounting the expected cash flows based on currently available information. A 10% movement in the assumed discount rate would have an immaterial effect on the fair values of those assets and liabilities.  

 With respect to the company’s investments in affiliates, the company believes any reasonably possible near-term losses in earnings, cash flows and fair values would not be material to the company’s consolidated financial position.  

 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

 Business Combinations  

 On January 1, 2009, the company adopted a new accounting standard which changes the accounting for business combinations in a number of significant respects. The key changes include the expansion of transactions that qualify as business combinations, the capitalization of IPR&D as an indefinite-lived asset, the recognition of certain acquired contingent assets and liabilities at fair value, the expensing of acquisition costs, the expensing of costs associated with restructuring the acquired company, the recognition of contingent consideration at fair value on the acquisition date, the recognition of post-acquisition date changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and acquired income tax uncertainties as income tax expense or benefit, and the expansion of disclosure requirements. This standard was applicable for acquisitions made by the company on or after January 1, 2009, including the April 2009 consolidation of SIGMA and the August 2009 acquisition of certain assets of Edwards CRRT. Refer to Note 4 for further information regarding SIGMA and Edwards CRRT.  

 Noncontrolling Interests  

 On January 1, 2009, the company adopted a new accounting standard which changes the accounting and reporting of noncontrolling interests (historically referred to as minority interests). The standard requires that noncontrolling interests be presented in the consolidated balance sheets within equity, but separate from Baxter shareholders’ equity, and that the amount of consolidated net income attributable to Baxter and to the noncontrolling interests be clearly identified and presented in the consolidated statements of income. Any losses in excess of the noncontrolling interest’s equity interest continue to be allocated to the noncontrolling interest. Purchases or sales of equity interests that do not result in a change of control are accounted for as equity transactions. Upon a loss of control the interest sold, as well as any interest retained, is measured at fair value, with any gain or loss recognized in earnings. In partial acquisitions, when control is obtained, 100% of the assets and liabilities, including goodwill, are recognized at fair value as if the entire target company had been acquired. The new standard was applied prospectively as of January 1, 2009, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which have been applied retrospectively for prior periods presented. Prior to the adoption of the new standard, the noncontrolling interests’ share of net income was included in other expense, net in the consolidated statements of income and the noncontrolling interests’ equity was included in other long-term liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. The accounting related provisions of the new accounting standard did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.  

 Revenue Recognition  

 In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued two updates to the Accounting Standards Codification related to revenue recognition. The first update eliminates the requirement that all undelivered elements in an arrangement with multiple deliverables have objective and reliable evidence of fair value before revenue can be recognized for items that have been delivered. The update also no longer allows    

 33   

 use of the residual method when allocating consideration to deliverables. Instead, arrangement consideration is to be allocated to deliverables using the relative selling price method, applying a selling price hierarchy. Vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) of selling price should be used if it exists. Otherwise, third party evidence (TPE) of selling price should be used. If neither VSOE nor TPE is available, the company’s best estimate of selling price should be used. The second update eliminates tangible products from the scope of software revenue recognition guidance when the tangible products contain software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the tangible products’ essential functionality. Both updates require expanded qualitative and quantitative disclosures and are effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, with prospective application for new or materially modified arrangements or retrospective application permitted. Early adoption is permitted. The same transition method and period of adoption must be used for both updates. The company adopted these updates in 2009, prospectively applying them to arrangements entered into or materially modified on or after January 1, 2009. The early adoption of these updates did not have a material impact on the company’s consolidated financial statements and did not result in a change in its previously reported quarterly consolidated financial statements.  

 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

 The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. A summary of the company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1. Certain of the company’s accounting policies are considered critical because these policies are the most important to the depiction of the company’s financial statements and require significant, difficult or complex judgments by the company, often requiring the use of estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results that differ from the company’s estimates could have an unfavorable effect on the company’s results of operations and financial position. The company applies estimation methodologies consistently from year to year. Other than changes required due to the issuance of new accounting pronouncements, there have been no significant changes in the company’s application of its critical accounting policies during 2009. The company’s critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The following is a summary of accounting policies that the company considers critical to the consolidated financial statements.  

 Revenue Recognition and Related Provisions and Allowances  

 The company’s policy is to recognize revenues from product sales and services when earned. Specifically, revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred (or services have been rendered), the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. The shipping terms for the majority of the company’s revenue arrangements are FOB destination. The recognition of revenue is delayed if there are significant post-delivery obligations, such as training, installation or other services.  

 The company sometimes enters into arrangements in which it commits to delivering multiple products or services to its customers. In these cases, total arrangement consideration is allocated to the deliverables based on their relative selling prices. Then the allocated consideration is recognized as revenue in accordance with the principles described above. Selling prices are determined by applying a selling price hierarchy. Selling prices are determined using VSOE, if it exists. Otherwise, selling prices are determined using TPE. If neither VSOE nor TPE is available, the company uses its best estimate of selling prices.  

 Provisions for discounts, rebates to customers, chargebacks to wholesalers, and returns are provided for at the time the related sales are recorded, and are reflected as a reduction of sales. These estimates are reviewed periodically and, if necessary, revised, with any revisions recognized immediately as adjustments to sales.  

 The company periodically and systematically evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable and determines the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts. In determining the amount of the reserve, the company considers historical credit losses, the past-due status of receivables, payment history and other customer-specific information, and any other relevant factors or considerations. Because of the nature of the company’s customer base and the company’s credit and collection policies and procedures, write-offs of accounts receivable have historically not been significant (generally less than 2% of gross receivables).   

 34   

 The company also provides for the estimated costs that may be incurred under its warranty programs when the cost is both probable and reasonably estimable, which is at the time the related revenue is recognized. The cost is determined based on actual company experience for the same or similar products as well as other relevant information. Estimates of future costs under the company’s warranty programs could change based on developments in the future. The company is not able to estimate the probability or amount of any future developments that could impact the reserves, but believes presently established reserves are adequate.  

 Pension and OPEB Plans  

 The company provides pension and other postemployment benefits to certain of its employees. These employee benefit expenses are reported in the same line items in the consolidated income statement as the applicable employee’s compensation expense. The valuation of the funded status and net benefit cost for the plans are calculated using actuarial assumptions. These assumptions are reviewed annually, and revised if appropriate. The significant assumptions include the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Selecting assumptions involves an analysis of both short-term and long-term historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of the valuation (also called the measurement date). The use of different assumptions would result in different measures of the funded status and net cost. Actual results in the future could differ from expected results. The company is not able to estimate the probability of actual results differing from expected results, but believes its assumptions are appropriate.  

 The company’s key assumptions are listed in Note 9. The most critical assumptions relate to the plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees, because these plans are the most significant to the company’s consolidated financial statements.  

 Discount Rate Assumption  

 For the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans, at the measurement date (December 31, 2009), the company used a discount rate of 6.05% and 5.95% to measure its benefit obligations for the pension plans and OPEB plan, respectively. This discount rate will be used in calculating the net periodic benefit cost for these plans for 2010. The company used a broad population of approximately 260 Aa-rated corporate bonds as of December 31, 2009 to determine the discount rate assumption. All bonds were denominated in U.S. dollars, with a minimum amount outstanding of $50 million. This population of bonds was narrowed from a broader universe of over 500 Moody’s Aa rated, non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds by eliminating the top 10th percentile and bottom 40th percentile to adjust for any pricing anomalies and to represent the bonds Baxter would most likely select if it were to actually annuitize its pension and OPEB plan liabilities. This portfolio of bonds was used to generate a yield curve and associated spot rate curve, to discount the projected benefit payments for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve.  

 For plans in Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom and the Eurozone, the company uses a method essentially the same as that described for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. For the company’s other international plans, the discount rate is generally determined by reviewing country- and region-specific government and corporate bond interest rates.  

 To understand the impact of changes in discount rates on pension and OPEB plan cost, the company performs a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point (i.e., one-half of one    

 35   

 percent) increase (decrease) in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $32 million.  

 Return on Plan Assets Assumption  

 In measuring net periodic cost for 2009, the company used a long-term expected rate of return of 8.5% for the pension plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees. This assumption will also be used to measure net pension cost for 2010. This assumption is not applicable to the company’s OPEB plan because it is not funded.  

 The company establishes the long-term asset return assumption based on a review of historical compound average asset returns, both company-specific and relating to the broad market (based on the company’s asset allocation), as well as an analysis of current market and economic information and future expectations. The current asset return assumption is supported by historical market experience for both the company’s actual and targeted asset allocation. In calculating net pension cost, the expected return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is a component of the total net unrecognized gain or loss and is subject to amortization in the future.  

 To understand the impact of changes in the expected asset return assumption on net cost, the company performs a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point increase (decrease) in the asset return assumption, global pre-tax pension plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $15 million.  

 Other Assumptions  

 The company used the Retirement Plan 2000 mortality table to calculate the pension and OPEB plan benefit obligations for its plans in the United States and Puerto Rico. For all other pension plans, the company utilized country and region-specific mortality tables to calculate the plans’ benefit obligations. The company periodically analyzes and updates its assumptions concerning demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover, considering historical experience as well as anticipated future trends.  

 The assumptions relating to employee compensation increases and future healthcare costs are based on historical experience, market trends, and anticipated future company actions. Refer to Note 9 for information regarding the sensitivity of the OPEB plan obligation and the total of the service and interest cost components of OPEB plan cost to potential changes in future healthcare costs.  

 Legal Contingencies  

 The company is involved in product liability, patent, commercial, regulatory and other legal proceedings that arise in the normal course of business. Refer to Note 11 for further information. The company records a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate, the minimum amount in the range is accrued. If a loss is not probable or a probable loss cannot be reasonably estimated, no liability is recorded. The company has established reserves for certain of its legal matters. The company is not able to estimate the amount or range of any loss for certain of the legal contingencies for which there is no reserve or additional loss for matters already reserved. The company also records any insurance recoveries that are probable of occurring. At December 31, 2009 total legal liabilities were $112 million and total insurance receivables were $96 million.  

 The company’s loss estimates are generally developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based on analyses of potential results. With respect to the recording of any insurance recoveries, after completing the assessment and accounting for the company’s legal contingencies, the company separately and independently analyzes its insurance coverage and records any insurance recoveries that are probable of occurring at the gross amount that is expected to be collected. In performing the assessment, the company reviews available information, including historical company-specific and market collection experience for similar claims, current facts and circumstances pertaining to the particular insurance claim, the financial viability of the applicable insurance company or companies, and other relevant information.   

 36   

 While the liability of the company in connection with the claims cannot be estimated with any certainty, and although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a significant impact on the company’s results of operations and cash flows for that period, the outcome of these legal proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated financial position. While the company believes it has valid defenses in these matters, litigation is inherently uncertain, excessive verdicts do occur, and the company may in the future incur material judgments or enter into material settlements of claims.  

 Inventories  

 The company values its inventories at the lower of cost, determined using the first-in, first-out method, or market value. Market value for raw materials is based on replacement costs and market value for work in process and finished goods is based on net realizable value. The company reviews inventories on hand at least quarterly and records provisions for estimated excess, slow-moving and obsolete inventory, as well as inventory with a carrying value in excess of net realizable value. The regular and systematic inventory valuation reviews include a current assessment of future product demand, anticipated release of new products into the market (either by the company or its competitors), historical experience and product expiration. Uncertain timing of product approvals, variability in product launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all impact the estimates related to inventory valuation. Additional inventory provisions may be required if future demand or market conditions are less favorable than the company has estimated. The company is not able to estimate the probability of actual results differing from expected results, but believes its estimates are appropriate.  

 Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances and Reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions  

 The company maintains valuation allowances unless it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in the company’s tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, the company evaluates factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carryback and carryforward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. The realizability assessments made at a given balance sheet date are subject to change in the future, particularly if earnings of a subsidiary are significantly higher or lower than expected, or if the company takes operational or tax planning actions that could impact the future taxable earnings of a subsidiary.  

 In the normal course of business, the company is audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and is periodically challenged regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges relate to the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The company believes the company’s tax positions comply with applicable tax law and the company intends to defend its positions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the company records reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with GAAP, based on the technical support for the positions, the company’s past audit experience with similar situations, and potential interest and penalties related to the matters. The company’s effective tax rate in a given period could be impacted if, upon final resolution with taxing authorities, the company prevailed in positions for which reserves have been established, or was required to pay amounts in excess of established reserves.  

 Fair Value Measurements of Financial Assets and Liabilities  

 On January 1, 2008, the company adopted the new accounting standard for financial assets and financial liabilities recognized or disclosed at fair value in the consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis and on January 1, 2009, the company adopted the new accounting standard for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.  

 For assets that are measured using quoted prices in active markets, the fair value is the published market price per unit multiplied by the number of units held, without consideration of transaction costs. The majority of the derivatives entered into by the company are valued using internal valuation techniques as no quoted market prices exist for such instruments. The principal techniques used to value these instruments are discounted cash flow and Black-Scholes models. The key inputs, which are observable, depend on the type of derivative, and    

 37   

 include contractual terms, counterparty credit risk, interest rate yield curves, foreign exchange rates and volatility. Refer to the Financial Instrument Market Risk section above for disclosures regarding sensitivity analyses performed by the company and Note 7 for further information regarding the company’s financial instruments.  

 In addition, the company’s pension plan assets and contingent payments associated with business combinations are valued at fair value on a recurring basis. The valuation of pension assets, which are recorded net of the plan’s liabilities, depends on the type of security the plan holds. Principally, the securities are valued using quoted prices in active markets or pricing matrices or models that incorporate observable market data inputs. Refer to the Pension and OPEB Plans section above and Note 9 for further information on the company’s pension plans. Contingent payments are valued using a discounted cash flow technique that reflects management’s expectations about probability of payment. Refer to Note 4 for further information on the company’s contingent payments relating to acquisitions.  

 Valuation of Intangible Assets, Including IPR&D  

 The company acquires intangible assets and records them at fair value. Valuations are generally completed for business acquisitions using a discounted cash flow analysis, incorporating the stage of completion. The most significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the discounted cash flow analysis include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the discount rate used to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows, the assessment of the asset’s life cycle, and the competitive and other trends impacting the asset, including consideration of technical, legal, regulatory, economic and other factors. Each of these factors and assumptions can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset.  

 Acquired IPR&D is the value assigned to acquired technology or products under development which have not received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use.  

 Beginning in 2009, as discussed further above, the company adopted a new accounting standard for accounting for business combinations. Under the new accounting standard, acquired IPR&D included in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset and is no longer expensed at the time of the acquisition. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Upon receipt of regulatory approval of the related technology or product, the indefinite-lived intangible asset is then accounted for as a finite-lived intangible asset and amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. If the R&D project is abandoned, the indefinite-lived asset is charged to expense.  

 IPR&D acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately. For such transactions, payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related asset, and are classified as intangible assets.  

 Due to the inherent uncertainty associated with R&D projects, there is no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from the underlying assumptions used to prepare discounted cash flow analyses, nor that the R&D project will result in a successful commercial product.  

 Impairment of Assets  

 Goodwill is subject to impairment reviews annually, and whenever indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets other than goodwill and other long-lived assets (such as fixed assets) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Refer to Note 1 for further information. The company’s impairment reviews are based on an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings, and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company’s business plans and a market participant’s views of the company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair values of the assets, and potentially result in different impacts to the company’s results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company’s estimates.   

 38   

 Stock-Based Compensation Plans  

 Stock-based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and the cost is recognized as expense ratably over the substantive vesting period. Determining the appropriate fair value model to use requires judgment. Determining the assumptions that enter into the model is highly subjective and also requires judgment. The company’s stock compensation costs principally relate to awards of stock options, and the significant assumptions include long-term projections regarding stock price volatility, employee exercise, post-vesting termination, and pre-vesting forfeiture behaviors, interest rates and dividend yields.  

 The company uses the Black-Scholes model for estimating the fair value of stock options. The company’s expected volatility assumption is based on an equal weighting of the historical volatility of Baxter’s stock and the implied volatility from traded options on Baxter’s stock. The expected life assumption is primarily based on historical employee exercise patterns and employee post-vesting termination behavior. The risk-free interest rate for the expected life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The dividend yield reflects historical experience as well as future expectations over the expected life of the option. The forfeiture rate used to calculate compensation expense is primarily based on historical pre-vesting employee forfeiture patterns. In finalizing its assumptions, the company also reviews comparable companies’ assumptions, as available in published surveys and in publicly available financial filings.  

 The pre-vesting forfeitures assumption is ultimately adjusted to the actual forfeiture rate. Therefore, changes in the forfeitures assumption would not impact the total amount of expense ultimately recognized over the vesting period. Estimated forfeitures are reassessed each period based on historical experience and current projections for the future.  

 The use of different assumptions would result in different amounts of stock compensation expense. The fair value of an option is particularly impacted by the expected volatility and expected life assumptions. To understand the impact of changes in these assumptions on the fair value of an option, the company performs sensitivity analyses. Holding all other variables constant, if the expected volatility assumption used in valuing the stock options granted in 2009 was increased by 100 basis points (i.e., one percent), the fair value of a stock option relating to one share of common stock would increase by approximately 3%, from $11.68 to $12.07. Holding all other variables constant (including the expected volatility assumption), if the expected life assumption used in valuing the stock options granted in 2009 was increased by one year, the fair value of a stock option relating to one share of common stock would increase by approximately 8%, from $11.68 to $12.61.  

 The company began granting performance share units (PSUs) in 2007. PSUs are earned by comparing the company’s growth in shareholder value relative to a performance peer group over a three-year period. Based on the company’s relative performance, the recipient of a PSU may earn a total award ranging from 0% to 200% of the initial grant. The fair value of a PSU is estimated by the company at the grant date using a Monte Carlo model. A Monte Carlo model uses stock price volatility and other variables to estimate the probability of satisfying the market conditions and the resulting fair value of the award. The three primary inputs for the Monte Carlo model are the risk-free rate, volatility of returns and correlation of returns. The determination of the risk-free rate is similar to that described above relating to the valuation of stock options. The expected volatility and correlation assumptions are based on historical information.  

 The company is not able to estimate the probability of actual results differing from expected results, but believes the company’s assumptions are appropriate, based upon the requirements of accounting standards for stock compensation and the company’s historical and expected future experience.  

 Hedging Activities  

 As further discussed in Note 7 and in the Financial Instrument Market Risk section above, the company uses derivative instruments to hedge certain risks. As Baxter operates on a global basis, there is a risk to earnings associated with foreign exchange relating to the company’s recognized assets and liabilities and forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Compliance with accounting standards for derivatives and hedging activities and the company’s hedging policies require the company to make judgments regarding the    

 39   

 probability of anticipated hedged transactions. In making these estimates and assessments of probability, the company analyzes historical trends and expected future cash flows and plans. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company’s business plans. If the company were to make different assessments of probability or make the assessments during a different fiscal period, the company’s results of operations for a given period would be different.  

 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

 Transfers of Financial Assets  

 In June 2009, the FASB issued a new accounting standard relating to the accounting for transfers of financial assets. The new standard eliminates the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity and clarifies existing GAAP as it relates to determining whether a transferor has surrendered control over transferred financial assets. The standard limits the circumstances in which a financial asset, or portion of a financial asset, should be derecognized when the transferor has not transferred the entire original financial asset to an entity that is not consolidated with the transferor in the financial statements presented and/or when the transferor has continuing involvement with the transferred financial asset. The standard also requires enhanced disclosures about transfers of financial assets and a transferor’s continuing involvement with transferred financial assets. It is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009, with early adoption prohibited. The new standard will be applied prospectively, except for the disclosure requirements, which will be applied retrospectively for all periods presented. The new standard, which is effective for the company as of January 1, 2010, is not expected to have a material impact on the company’s consolidated financial statements.  

 Variable Interest Entities  

 In June 2009, the FASB issued a new standard that changes the consolidation model for variable interest entities (VIEs). The new standard requires an enterprise to qualitatively assess the determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE as the enterprise that has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. The standard requires ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The standard expands the disclosure requirements for enterprises with a variable interest in a VIE. It is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after November 15, 2009, with early adoption prohibited. The new standard, which is effective for the company as of January 1, 2010, is not expected to have material impact on the company’s consolidated financial statements.  

 CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS  

 In July 2005, the company stopped shipment of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps in the United States. Following a number of Class I recalls (recalls at the highest priority level for the FDA) relating to the performance of the pumps, as well as the seizure litigation described in Note 11, the company entered into a Consent Decree in June 2006. Additional Class I recalls related to remediation and repair and maintenance activities were addressed by the company in 2007 and 2009. The Consent Decree provides for reviews of the company’s facilities, processes and controls by the company’s outside expert, followed by the FDA. In December 2007, following the outside expert’s review, the FDA conducted inspections and remains in a dialogue with the company. As discussed in Note 11, the company received a subpoena from the Office of the United States Attorney of the Northern District of Illinois relating to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump in September 2009. As discussed in Note 5, the company has recorded a number of charges in connection with its COLLEAGUE infusion pumps. It is possible that substantial additional charges, including significant asset impairments, related to COLLEAGUE may be required in future periods, based on new information, changes in estimates, and modifications to the current remediation plan.  

 In the first quarter of 2008, the company identified an increasing level of allergic-type and hypotensive adverse reactions occurring in patients using its heparin sodium injection products in the United States. The company initiated a field corrective action with respect to the products; however, due to users’ needs for the    

 40   

 products, the company and the FDA concluded that public health considerations warranted permitting selected dosages of the products to remain in distribution for use where medically necessary until alternate sources became available in the quarter, at which time the company’s products were removed from distribution.  

 In January 2010, the company received a Warning Letter from the FDA regarding observations made by the agency following inspections of the company’s manufacturing facility in Lessines, Belgium. The Warning Letter identifies a number of issues associated with certain fill and finish processes and controls relating to GAMMAGARD LIQUID therapy. The company is working with the FDA to address these issues.  

 While the company continues to work to resolve the issues described above, there can be no assurance that additional costs or civil and criminal penalties will not be incurred, that additional regulatory actions with respect to the company will not occur, that the company will not face civil claims for damages from purchasers or users, that substantial additional charges or significant asset impairments may not be required, that sales of any other product may not be adversely affected, or that additional legislation or regulation will not be introduced that may adversely affect the company’s operations. Please see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in the company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of regulatory matters.  

 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  

 This annual report includes forward-looking statements, including statements with respect to accounting estimates and assumptions, future litigation outcomes, the company’s efforts to remediate its infusion pumps and other regulatory matters, expectations with respect to restructuring programs (including expected cost savings), strategic plans, product and business mix, promotional efforts, geographic expansion, sales and pricing forecasts, credit exposure to foreign governments, expectations with respect to business development activities, potential developments with respect to credit and credit ratings, interest expense in 2010, estimates of liabilities, ongoing tax audits and related tax provisions, deferred tax assets, future pension plan contributions, costs, rates of return and minimum funding requirements, expectations with respect to the company’s exposure to foreign currency risk, the company’s internal R&D pipeline, future capital and R&D expenditures, the sufficiency of the company’s financial flexibility and the adequacy of credit facilities and reserves, the effective tax rate in 2010, and all other statements that do not relate to historical facts. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including assumptions concerning:  

    •   demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE and IGIV, and other therapies;   

    •   the company’s ability to identify business development and growth opportunities for existing products;   

    •   product quality or patient safety issues, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, sanctions, seizures, litigation, or declining sales;   

    •   future actions of the FDA or any other regulatory body or government authority that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sale or result in seizures, injunctions, monetary sanctions or criminal or civil liabilities, including any sanctions available under the Consent Decree entered into with the FDA concerning the COLLEAGUE and SYNDEO infusion pumps;   

    •   foreign currency fluctuations, particularly due to reduced benefits from the company’s natural hedges and limitations on the ability to cost-effectively hedge resulting from financial market and currency volatility;   

    •   fluctuations in supply and demand for plasma protein products;   

    •   reimbursement or rebate policies of government agencies and private payers;   

    •   changes in healthcare legislation and regulation, including through healthcare reform in the United States or globally, which may affect pricing, reimbursement or other elements of the company’s business;   

    •   production yields, regulatory clearances and customers’ final purchase commitments with respect to the company’s pandemic vaccine;     

 41   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.  

  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.