PART I

Item 1. Business.

Introduction

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world’s largest home improvement retailer based on Net Sales for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2015 ("fiscal 2014"). The Home Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement products and lawn and garden products and provide a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 104,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal 2014, we had 2,269 The Home Depot stores located throughout the United States, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam, Canada and Mexico. When we refer to "The Home Depot," the "Company," "we," "us" or "our" in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is (770) 433-8211.

Our internet website is www.homedepot.com. We make available on the Investor Relations section of our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.

We include our website addresses throughout this filing for reference only. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this report.

For information on key financial highlights, including historical revenues, profits and total assets, see the "Five-Year Summary of Financial and Operating Results" on page F-1 of this report and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

 1
Data Breach

In the third quarter of fiscal 2014, we confirmed that our payment data systems were breached, which impacted customers who used payment cards at our U.S. and Canadian stores (the "Data Breach"). For a description of matters related to the Data Breach, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements." 

Our Business

Operating Strategy 

Over the past several years, we have maintained a consistent strategic framework comprised of three key initiatives – Customer Service; Product Authority; and Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency – tied together through our Interconnected Retail initiative. In fiscal 2014, we focused on continuing to enhance our capability to deliver a superior interconnected retail experience for our customers. As customers increasingly expect to be able to buy how, when and where they want, we believe that providing a seamless shopping experience across multiple channels, featuring innovative and expanded product choices, will be a key enabler for future success. Becoming a best-in-class interconnected retailer is growing in importance as the line between online and in-store shopping continues to blur. Our interconnected retail initiative supports and connects the three other key initiatives of our long-standing strategic framework, with the overall goal of strengthening the connectivity between our stores and our online channels and our connectivity with our customers. 

Our interconnected retail efforts are woven through each of our other three initiatives, each of which is discussed in more detail below. For example, under our customer service initiative, we strengthened connectivity in fiscal 2014 by rolling out the next generation of the FIRST Phone, a handheld mobile customer service tool used by our store associates. Under our product authority initiative, we continued to enhance our website and mobile sites, which serve as an extended aisle of products, product information and guidance on projects and services. Under our productivity and efficiency initiative, we continued to optimize our supply chain capabilities to build connectivity among our delivery channels. In fiscal 2014, we started a pilot for Buy Online, Deliver From Store ("BODFS"), which complements our existing interconnected retail programs: Buy Online, Pick-up In Store ("BOPIS"), Buy Online, Ship to Store ("BOSS") and Buy Online, Return In Store ("BORIS"). 

Customer Service 

Our customer service initiative is anchored on the principles of simplifying the business, creating an emotional connection with our customers, putting customers first and taking care of our associates. Our long-standing goal has been to remove complexity from the stores to allow our associates to focus on our customers, and in fiscal 2014 we continued programs to reduce unnecessary store reports, store-based emails and meetings that took away from the time store associates could spend on selling activities. 

Our Customers. The Home Depot stores serve three primary customer groups, and we have different customer service approaches to meet their particular needs:

•Do-It-Yourself ("DIY") Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. Our associates assist these customers with specific product and installation questions both in our stores and through online resources and other media designed to provide product and project knowledge. We also offer a variety of clinics and workshops both to impart this knowledge and to build an emotional connection with our DIY customers.

•Do-It-For-Me ("DIFM") Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase materials and hire third parties to complete the project or installation. Our stores offer a variety of installation services targeted at DIFM customers who purchase products and installation of those products from us in our stores, online or in their homes through in-home consultations. Our installation programs include many categories, such as flooring, cabinets, countertops, water heaters, and sheds. In addition, we provide professional installation in a number of categories sold through our in-home sales programs, such as roofing, siding, windows, kitchen and bath refacing, furnaces, and central air systems. 

•Professional Customers. These customers are primarily professional remodelers, general contractors, repairmen, small business owners and tradesmen. We recognize the unique service needs of the professional customer and use our expertise to facilitate their buying experience. We offer a variety of special programs to these customers, including delivery and will-call services, dedicated staff, expanded credit programs, designated parking spaces close to store entrances and bulk pricing programs for both online and in-store purchases. In addition, we maintain a 

 2
loyalty program, Pro Xtra, that provides our professional customers with discounts on useful business services, exclusive product offers and a purchase tracking tool to enable receipt lookup online and job tracking of purchases across all forms of payment. This program, introduced in fiscal 2013, continued to gain traction, with approximately 2.5 million customers enrolled by the end of fiscal 2014.

We help our DIY, DIFM and professional customers finance their projects by offering private label credit products in our stores through third-party credit providers. In fiscal 2014, our customers opened approximately 2.9 million new The Home Depot private label credit accounts, and at fiscal year end the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 11 million. Private label credit card sales accounted for approximately 23% of sales in fiscal 2014.

Building Connectivity. In fiscal 2014, we continued to enhance our customers' interconnected shopping experiences through a variety of initiatives. As noted above, we completed the first major upgrade of our FIRST Phone in-store mobile technology. Our new web-enabled handheld devices, which allow mobile checkout, give our associates a simple customer service tool for locating products, checking inventory on hand or simply explaining product features. These capabilities are especially important for our "interconnected" customers. Many of our customers research products online and then go into one of our stores to view the products in person or talk to an associate before making the purchase. While in the store, customers may also go online to access ratings and reviews, compare prices or view our extended assortment. Our web-enabled FIRST Phones help our associates assist with the online experience when they encounter customers in the aisles. Approximately 10% of our online orders were created from inside our stores in fiscal 2014. During fiscal 2014, we also introduced a new mobile app that provides an enhanced in-store map and live chat feature, and we have found that our customers are using this mobile app inside our stores. 

We also recognize that customers desire greater visibility, control and options when it comes to receiving their products and services. In addition to our BOPIS, BOSS, and BODFS programs, during fiscal 2014 we developed several delivery enhancements for our customers. We began pilot programs to offer time-specific delivery of orders placed online or in the stores; improve and simplify the in-store experience for scheduling a delivery; and enable customers to self-schedule a delivery on our website. Time-specific delivery capability will be particularly beneficial to our professional customers, who need to ensure their orders are delivered to their job sites at the time that aligns with the project plan to avoid disruptions or delays.

We also made enhancements to our special order and installation process in fiscal 2014. First, we introduced our new Customer Order Management system, which is being rolled out to all U.S. stores. This system is designed to provide greater visibility into and improved execution of special orders by our associates and a more seamless experience for our customers. We also replaced our lead and purchase order management system with a single platform for our third-party installers. In addition to the new interface, installers have the option to integrate directly with our system through a secure data transmission. This system improves communications between installers and the stores and delivers a better customer experience. We also built better connectivity to reduce the time between a customer's initial inquiry for service and the service provider's contact with the customer, which makes it more likely that the customer will proceed with the project.

Our Associates. Our associates are key to our customer service initiative. We empower our associates to deliver excellent customer service through our Customer FIRST training program, which includes enhanced training for our interconnected customers that stresses the importance of quick pickup of merchandise. We also have a number of programs to recognize stores and individual associates for exceptional customer and community service. At the end of fiscal 2014, we employed approximately 371,000 associates, of whom approximately 23,000 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve. We measure associate satisfaction regularly, and we believe that our employee relations are very good. 

Product Authority

Our product authority initiative is facilitated by our merchandising transformation and portfolio strategy, which is focused on delivering product innovation, assortment and value. In fiscal 2014, we continued to introduce a wide range of innovative new products to our professional, DIFM and DIY customers, while remaining focused on offering everyday values in our stores and online. 

Our Products. In fiscal 2014, we introduced a number of innovative and distinctive products to our customers at attractive values. Examples of these new products include Behr Marquee® interior paint; EGO™ 56-volt lithium-ion 3-in-1 cordless lawn mower; Diablo® Pergo® blades from Freud®; touchless toilets from Kohler®; and the My Q Garage universal smartphone controller from Chamberlain®.

 3
During fiscal 2014, we offered a number of proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments, such as Husky® hand tools and tool storage; Defiant® door locks; Everbilt® hardware fasteners; Hampton Bay® lighting and fans; Vigoro® lawn care products; RIDGID® and Ryobi® power tools; Glacier Bay® bath fixtures; HDX® hardware, storage and cleaning products; Home Decorators Collection® furniture and home décor; and CE Tech® audio-visual accessories. In fiscal 2014, we acquired one of our principal fasteners suppliers, known as Crown Bolt, which provides sourcing, distribution and in-store servicing support for our Everbilt® and related fastener brands. We will continue to assess strategic alliances and relationships with suppliers and opportunities to expand the range of products available under brand names that are exclusive to The Home Depot.

We maintain a global sourcing program to obtain high-quality and innovative products directly from manufacturers around the world. In fiscal 2014, in addition to our sourcing operations at our Store Support Center in Atlanta, Georgia, we maintained seven sourcing offices, located in Shanghai, China; Shenzhen, China; Taipei, Taiwan; Gurgaon, India; Rome, Italy; Monterrey, Mexico and Toronto, Canada.

The percentage of Net Sales of each of our major product categories (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years is presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements." Net Sales outside the U.S. were $8.5 billion, $8.5 billion and $8.4 billion for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Long-lived assets outside the U.S. totaled $2.5 billion, $2.9 billion and $3.1 billion as of February 1, 2015, February 2, 2014 and February 3, 2013, respectively.

Quality Assurance. We have both quality assurance and engineering resources dedicated to overseeing the quality of all of our products, whether they are directly imported, locally or globally sourced or proprietary branded products. Through these programs, we have established criteria for supplier and product performance that are designed to ensure that our products comply with applicable international, federal, state and local safety, quality and performance standards. We also have a Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Program designed to ensure that our suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility.

Building Connectivity. A typical The Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 products during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary items. To enhance our merchandising capabilities, we continued to make improvements to our information technology tools in fiscal 2014 to give our merchants and suppliers greater visibility into category and item performance and to better assort products within stores with similar attributes based on local preferences, regulations and demographics. We also continued to use the resources of BlackLocus, Inc., a data analytics and pricing firm we acquired in fiscal 2012, to help us make focused merchandising decisions based on large, complex data sets. We also use these analytics at a store-level to automate and optimize our markdown and clearance process.

As noted above, our online properties complement our stores by serving as an extended aisle, and we offer a significantly broader product assortment through our Home Depot, Home Decorators Collection and Blinds.com websites. For our online user experience, we continued to enhance our websites and mobile sites by improving navigation and search functionalities to allow customers to more easily find and purchase an expanded array of products and provide them with flexibility and convenience for their purchases, for example, through our BOPIS, BOSS and BODFS programs and other delivery enhancements introduced in fiscal 2014. As a result of these efforts, we increased traffic to our websites, online sales conversion rates, and the number of orders being picked up in our stores. For fiscal 2014, we had over 1.2 billion visits to our online properties; sales from our online channels increased over 36% compared to fiscal 2013; and almost 40% of our online orders were picked up in a store, compared to approximately 30% in fiscal 2013.

Energy Saving Products and Programs. The Home Depot has a long-standing commitment to sustainability, as do many of our customers, and we believe our efforts have been successful in creating value for our customers and shareholders. For example, we offer a growing selection of environmentally-preferred products, which supports sustainability and helps our customers save money, energy and water. Through our Eco Options® Program introduced in 2007, we have created product categories that allow consumers to easily identify products that meet specifications for energy efficiency, water conservation, healthy home, clean air and sustainable forestry. As of the end of fiscal 2014, our Eco Options® Program included over 9,000 products. Through this program, we sell products such as ENERGY STAR® certified appliances, compact fluorescent light ("CFL") and LED light bulbs, tankless water heaters and other products, enabling our customers to save on their utility bills. We estimate that in fiscal 2014 we helped consumers save over $630 million in electricity costs through sales of ENERGY STAR® certified products as well as almost 48 billion gallons of water and over $400 million in water bills through the sales of WaterSense®-labeled bath faucets, showerheads, aerators, toilets and irrigation controllers. Additionally, as a result of converting all of our consumer interior paints to "Low VOC" or "Zero VOC" in fiscal 2012, we have eliminated over 55 million pounds of volatile organic compound emissions since the beginning of fiscal 2012 through the end of fiscal 2014.

 4
We also continue to use the Eco Options® page on our website to reach consumers interested in environmentally responsible and cost-saving products and projects. The site provides consumers with information on the benefits of environmentally-preferred Eco Options® products through "green" blogs, articles and projects, featured Eco Options® products and energy and water savings calculators to help consumers estimate potential savings by switching out their older, less efficient products with energy- and water-saving models.

We also support sustainability through our recycling efforts. We continue to offer our nationwide, in-store CFL bulb recycling program launched in 2008. This service is offered to customers free of charge and is available in all U.S. stores. We also maintain an in-store rechargeable battery recycling program. Launched in 2001 and currently done in partnership with Call2Recycle, this program is also available to customers free of charge in all stores throughout the U.S. Through these recycling programs, in fiscal 2014 we helped recycle over 725,000 pounds of CFL bulbs and over 940,000 pounds of rechargeable batteries collected from our customers. In fiscal 2014, we also recycled over 107,000 lead acid batteries collected from our customers under our lead acid battery exchange program, as well as over 200,000 tons of cardboard through a nationwide cardboard recycling program across our U.S. stores. We believe our Eco Options® programs and our recycling efforts drive sales, which in turn benefits our shareholders, in addition to our customers and the environment.

Seasonality. Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter. 

Competition. Our industry is highly competitive, with competition based primarily on customer service, price, store location and appearance, and quality, availability and assortment of merchandise. Although we are currently the world’s largest home improvement retailer, in each of the markets we serve there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses, and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and, to a lesser extent, other retailers, as well as with installers of home improvement products. In addition, we face growing competition from online and multichannel retailers, some of whom have a lower cost structure than ours, as our customers increasingly use computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile devices to shop online and compare prices and products. 

Intellectual Property. Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot® trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business, including our expanding proprietary brands such as HDX®, Husky®, Hampton Bay®, Home Decorators Collection®, Glacier Bay® and Vigoro®. We also maintain patent portfolios relating to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our products or business operations.

Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency

We have advanced this initiative through building best-in-class competitive advantages in our information technology and supply chain to better ensure product availability to our customers while managing our costs. During fiscal 2014, we continued to focus on optimizing our supply chain network and improving our inventory, transportation and distribution productivity.

Logistics. Our supply chain operations are focused on creating a competitive advantage through ensuring product availability for our customers, effectively using our investment in inventory, and managing total supply chain costs. Our fiscal 2014 initiatives have been to further optimize and efficiently operate our network, build new logistics capabilities and improve our inventory management systems and processes by investing in information technology.

Our distribution strategy is to provide the optimal flow path for a given product. Rapid Deployment Centers ("RDCs") play a key role in optimizing our network as they allow for aggregation of product needs for multiple stores to a single purchase order and then rapid allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon arrival at the RDC. This results in a simplified ordering process and improved transportation and inventory management. We have 18 mechanized RDCs in the U.S., and we opened our first RDC in Canada in early 2014, with a second Canadian RDC scheduled to open in the second half of fiscal 2015. We also continued our U.S. transload program for imported products in four facilities operated by third parties near ocean ports. Transload facilities allow us to improve our import logistics costs and inventory management by postponing final inventory deployment decisions until product arrives at destination ports.

Over the past several years, we have centralized our inventory planning and replenishment function and continuously improved our forecasting and replenishment technology. This has helped us to improve our product availability and our 

 5
inventory productivity at the same time. At the end of fiscal 2014, over 95% of our U.S. store products were ordered through central inventory management.

In addition to our RDCs and transload facilities, at the end of fiscal 2014, we operated 34 bulk distribution centers, which handle products distributed optimally on flat bed trucks, in the U.S. and Canada; 21 stocking distribution centers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico; and ten specialty distribution centers, which include offshore consolidation and return logistics centers, in the U.S. and Canada. We remain committed to leveraging our supply chain capabilities to fully utilize and optimize our improved logistics network. For example, we have begun to flow a portion of our BOSS orders through our RDCs, which reduces our transportation costs for those orders.

Building Connectivity. We also believe that using our almost 2,000 U.S. stores as a network of convenient locations for our customers who shop online and use our BOPIS, BOSS and BORIS programs provides us with a competitive advantage. As noted above, in fiscal 2014, we started a pilot for BODFS, which will give us the capability to deliver orders placed online from our stores to the customer's home or job site. In addition, we added capacity for the more traditional online direct-to-customer delivery methods in fiscal 2014. We opened two new direct fulfillment centers in Georgia and California, which brings our total to four direct fulfillment center operations in the U.S., and another facility is scheduled to open in the second half of fiscal 2015. These facilities will support our online growth with a balance of cost efficiency and speed in shipping online orders to meet our customers' needs. We expect these facilities to provide us the capability to deliver 90% of our customers' parcel orders in the U.S. within two days. 

Commitment to Environmentally Responsible Operations. The Home Depot is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our business, including energy usage, supply chain, store construction and maintenance, and, as noted above under "Energy Saving Products and Programs," product selection and delivery of product knowledge to our customers.

In fiscal 2014, our energy management team continued to implement strict operational standards that establish energy efficient practices in all of our U.S. facilities. These include HVAC unit temperature regulation and adherence to strict lighting schedules, which are the largest sources of energy consumption in our stores, as well as use of energy management systems in each store to monitor energy efficiency. We estimate that by implementing and utilizing these energy saving programs, we have saved over 8.6 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) since 2004. We set a goal to reduce our kWh per square foot in our U.S. stores by 20% by 2015. We met that goal in fiscal 2013, well in advance of our targeted date, and estimate a reduction of almost 32% as of the end of fiscal 2014.

Through our supply chain efficiencies described above under "Logistics," we targeted a 20% reduction in our domestic supply chain greenhouse gas emissions from 2008 to 2015. We also continued to monitor our "carbon footprint" from the operation of our stores as well as from our transportation and supply chain activities. Through our supply chain and energy reduction initiatives, we have exceeded our goal by reducing our absolute carbon emissions by over 1.9 million metric tons from 2008 to 2013, including the reduction of over 125,000 metric tons in 2013.

At our stores, we implemented a rainwater reclamation project in 2010. As of the end of fiscal 2014, we had retrofitted 150 of our stores with reclamation tanks to collect rainwater and condensation from HVAC units and garden center roofs, which is in turn used to water plants in our outside garden centers. We estimate our annual water savings from these units to be approximately 500,000 gallons per retrofitted store in fiscal 2014.

Our efforts have resulted in a number of environmental awards and recognitions. For example, in 2014, we received three significant awards from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). We were named "Retail Partner of the Year" by both the ENERGY STAR® division and WaterSense® division of the EPA for our overall excellence in energy efficiency and water efficiency, and we received the EPA's "SmartWay Excellence Award," which recognizes The Home Depot as an industry leader in freight supply chain environmental performance and energy efficiency. We also participate in the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) reporting process. CDP is an independent, international, not-for-profit organization providing a global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share environmental information. In 2014, we scored 93 out of 100 from the CDP for our disclosure, placing us among the highest scoring retailers and in the top quartile of our sector. We also received a performance band ranking of A- (out of a range from A to E), reflecting a high level of action on climate change mitigation, adaptation and transparency.

We are strongly committed to maintaining a safe shopping and working environment for our customers and associates and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do business. Our Environmental, Health & Safety ("EH&S") function is dedicated to ensuring the health and safety of our customers and associates, with trained associates who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis. Our EH&S policies are woven 

 6
into our everyday operations and are part of The Home Depot culture. Some common program elements include: daily store inspection checklists (by department); routine follow-up audits from our store-based safety team members and regional, district and store operations field teams; equipment enhancements and preventative maintenance programs to promote physical safety; departmental merchandising safety standards; training and education programs for all associates, with varying degrees of training provided based on an associate's role and responsibilities; and awareness, communication and recognition programs designed to drive operational awareness and understanding of EH&S issues.

Returning Value to Shareholders. In addition to making disciplined decisions about capital allocation, we maintained our focus on expense control, which drove higher returns on invested capital and allowed us to return value to shareholders through $7.0 billion in share repurchases and $2.5 billion in dividends in fiscal 2014, as discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Item 1A. Risk Factors.