PART I

Item 1.Business

Overview

We are a leading provider of products, services and solutions for the diagnostics, food, environmental, industrial, life sciences research and laboratory services markets. Through our advanced technologies and differentiated solutions, we address critical issues that help to improve lives and the world around us.

We realigned our businesses at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016 to better organize around customer requirements, positioning us to grow in attractive end markets and expand share with our core product offerings. We created two new reporting segments, Discovery & Analytical Solutions and Diagnostics, which will enable us to deliver improved customer focus, more value-add collaboration and breakthrough innovations. Our Diagnostics business became a standalone reporting segment targeted towards better meeting the needs of clinically-oriented customers, especially within the growing areas of reproductive health, emerging market diagnostics and applied genomics. Microfluidics and automation products within our former research business were moved to a new applied genomics group within the Diagnostics segment. Our former environmental health business and the remaining products within the legacy research business were combined to form our new Discovery & Analytical Solutions reporting segment, focused on better serving and innovating for applications-oriented customers. Discovery & Analytical Solutions customers span the environmental, food, industrial, life sciences research and laboratory services markets. 

We are a Massachusetts corporation, founded in 1947. Our headquarters are in Waltham, Massachusetts, and we market our products and services in more than 150 countries. As of January 1, 2017, we employed approximately 8,000 employees in our continuing operations. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PKI” and we are a component of the S&P 500 Index.

We maintain a website with the address http://www.perkinelmer.com. We are not including the information contained in our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or otherwise furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Our Strategy

Our strategy is to develop and deliver innovative products, services and solutions in high-growth markets that utilize our knowledge and expertise to address customers’ critical needs and drive scientific breakthroughs. To execute on our strategy and accelerate revenue growth, we focus on broadening our offerings through both the acquisition of innovative technology and investment in research and development. Our strategy includes:

•Achieving significant growth in both of our new core business segments, Discovery & Analytical Solutions and Diagnostics, through strategic acquisitions and licensing;

•Accelerating innovation through both internal research and development and third-party collaborations and alliances;

•Strengthening our position within key markets, by expanding our product and service offerings and maintaining superior product quality;

•Utilizing our share repurchase programs to help drive shareholder value; and

•Attracting, retaining and developing talented and engaged employees.

Recent Developments

As part of our strategy to grow our core businesses, we have recently taken the following actions:

Strategic Business Realignment:

We realigned our businesses at the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016 to better organize around customer requirements, positioning us to grow in attractive end markets and expand share with our core product offerings. We created two new operating segments, Discovery & Analytical Solutions and Diagnostics, which will enable us to deliver improved customer focus, more value-add collaboration and breakthrough innovations. The results reported for fiscal year 2016 reflect this new alignment of our operating segments. Financial information in this report relating to fiscal years 2015 and 2014 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect this change to our operating segments.

Acquisitions in Fiscal Year 2016:

3
We completed the acquisition of two businesses in fiscal year 2016 for a total consideration of $72.2 million in cash. The acquired businesses were Bioo Scientific Corporation, which was acquired for total consideration of $63.5 million in cash and one other business acquired for a total consideration of $8.8 million in cash. We reported the operations for these acquisitions within the results of our Diagnostics and Discovery & Analytical Solutions segments from the acquisition dates.

Restructuring:

During fiscal year 2016, we recorded pre-tax restructuring charges of $0.6 million in our Diagnostics segment and $5.9 million in our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment related to a workforce reduction from restructuring activities. Our management approved these plans principally to focus resources on higher growth product lines and end markets. We also recorded pre-tax restructuring reversals of $0.3 million in our Diagnostics segment and $1.2 million in our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment related to lower than expected costs associated with workforce reductions. This pre-tax restructuring activity has been reported as restructuring and contract termination charges and is included as a component of income from continuing operations. We expect no significant impact on future operating results or cash flows from the restructuring activities executed in fiscal year 2016.

As part of our ongoing business strategy, we also took the following actions:

Share Repurchase Program: 

On October 23, 2014, our Board of Directors (our "Board") authorized us to repurchase up to 8.0 million shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program (the "Repurchase Program"). On July 27, 2016, our Board authorized us to immediately terminate the Repurchase Program and further authorized us to repurchase up to 8.0 million shares of common stock under a new stock repurchase program (the "New Repurchase Program"). The New Repurchase Program will expire on July 26, 2018 unless terminated earlier by our Board, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During the fiscal year 2016, we repurchased 3.2 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $148.2 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. No shares remain available for repurchase under the Repurchase Program due to its cancellation. As of January 1, 2017, 8.0 million shares remained available for repurchase under the New Repurchase Program. From January 2, 2017 through February 24, 2017, there were no stock repurchases under the New Repurchase Program.

Business Segments and Products

We report our business in two segments: Discovery & Analytical Solutions and Diagnostics. We realigned our businesses at the beginning of the fourth quarter of the fiscal year 2016 to better position us to grow in attractive end markets and expand share with our core product offerings through an improved customer focus, more value-add collaboration and breakthrough innovations. The results reported for fiscal year 2016 reflect this new alignment of our operating segments. Financial information in this report relating to fiscal years 2015 and 2014 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the changes in our operating segments.

Discovery & Analytical Solutions Segment

Our comprehensive portfolio of technologies helps life sciences researchers better understand diseases and develop treatments. In addition, we help accelerate scientists' ability to detect, monitor and manage contaminants and toxic chemicals impacting our environment and food supply. Our new Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment serves the environmental, food, industrial, life sciences research and laboratory services markets, and generated revenue of $1,513.0 million in fiscal year 2016.

Environmental Market:

For the environmental market, we develop and provide analytical technologies, solutions and services that enable our customers to understand the characterization and health of many aspects of our environment, including air, water and soil.

Our technologies are used to detect and help reduce the impact products and industrial processes may have on our environment. For example, we have solutions to help ensure compliance with regulatory standards that protect the purity of the world's water supply by detecting harmful substances, including trace metals such as lead, and organic pollutants such as pesticides and benzene. We provide the tools needed to test functionality, meet quality specifications and safety standards, and innovate for next generation products.

Food Market:

We provide a variety of solutions that help farmers and food producers provide a growing population with food that is safe, nutritious and appealing. Our instruments confirm food quality, including the level of moisture in grain or the level of fat 

4
in butter. Our instruments are also used to detect the presence of potentially dangerous contaminants, such as lead and mercury in milk. Our solutions can also be used to identify the origin of food products such as olive oil, which helps prevent counterfeiting. Our methods and analyses are transferable throughout the supply chain so our customers are able to keep pace with industry standards as well as governmental regulations and certifications.

Industrial Market:

We provide analytical instrumentation for the industrial market which includes the chemical, electronics, energy, lubricant, petrochemical and polymer industries. Our industrial instrumentation is primarily used by customers focusing on quality assurance standards. 

Life Sciences Research Market:

In the life science research market, we provide a broad suite of solutions including reagents, informatics, and detection and imaging technologies that enable scientists to improve life science research and facilitate the drug discovery processes. These products, solutions and services support pharmaceutical and biotech companies, and academic institutions globally in creating better therapeutics by helping to bring products to market faster and more efficiently. Our research portfolio includes a wide range of systems consisting of imaging, detection and extraction instrumentation for use on in vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo models, analysis hardware and software, plus a wide range of consumable products including drug discovery and research reagents. 

Laboratory Services Market:

We provide services designed to enable our customers in the laboratory services market throughout the world to increase efficiencies and production time while reducing maintenance costs of their labs. Our OneSource laboratory service business is aligned with customers' needs to accelerate science by enabling efficiency gains within their labs.

Principal Products:

Our principal products and services for Discovery & Analytical Solutions applications include the following:

Environmental, Food & Industrial:

•The Clarus® series of gas chromatographs, gas chromatographs/mass spectrometers and the TurboMatrix™ family of sample-handling equipment are used to identify and quantify compounds in the environmental, forensics, food and beverage, hydrocarbon processing/biofuels, materials testing, pharmaceutical and semiconductor industries.

•The Altus® UPLC® and HPLC advanced liquid chromatography systems providing high throughput and resolution chromatographic separations.

•AxION® 2 TOF MS is designed to simplify and streamline virtually any analytical workflow and provides mass accuracy, full spectrum capability, speed, sensitivity, and dynamic range.

•AxION® Direct Sample Analysis (DSA®) is a sample introduction system that enables direct sample analysis with minimal sample preparation and no chromatography.

•The Torion® T-9 portable GC/MS, a fast person-portable GC/MS system, enabling rapid detection and actionable results to potentially hazardous and emergency environmental conditions.

•Our atomic spectroscopy family of instruments, including the AAnalyst™/PinAAcle® series of atomic absorption spectrometers, the Avio™/Optima® family of inductively coupled plasma (“ICP”) optical emission spectrometers and the NexION® family of ICP mass spectrometers are used in the environmental and chemical industries, among others, to determine the elemental content of a sample.

•Our infrared spectroscopy family, including the Spectrum Two™ spectrometer, a compact and portable instrument, used for high-speed infrared analysis for unknown substance identification, material qualification or concentration determination in fuel and lubricant analysis, polymer analysis and pharmaceutical and environmental applications. This includes the Frontier™ IR and NIR spectrometers designed to provide high sensitivity and flexibility to address a range of sample types. Spotlight™ IR systems, designed for scientists whose samples demand higher sensitivity and simpler analysis and workflows. 

•The LAMBDA™ UV/Vis, a series of spectrophotometers that provide sampling flexibility to enable measuring of a wide range of sample types, including liquids, powders and solid materials, both in regulated industries as well as QC/QA and research applications.

•The 2400 Series II CHNS/O Elemental Analyzer is one of the leading organic elemental analyzers. It is ideal for the rapid determination of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, sulfur, and oxygen content in organic and other types of materials.

•Our thermal analysis family includes DSC series that offers exclusive HyperDSC capability for unparalleled sensitivity and new insights into material processes. 

5
•Our Thermogravimetric (TG) and Simultaneous Thermal Analysis (STA) instruments, which can be coupled to Fourier Transform Infrared (FT-IR), Mass Spectrometry (MS), or Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS) to provide greater analysis power and knowledge.

•Perten's Falling Number and Glutomatic instruments determine the bread baking quality of wheat and flour.

Life Sciences Research and Laboratory Services:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Columbus™ image data storage and analysis system provides a single solution to the storage and analysis of high content data from any major high content screening system, helping to visualize and analyze high content images via the Internet.

•The EnSight™ multimode plate reader benchtop system offers well plate imaging alongside label-free and labeled detection technologies for target-based and phenotypic assays.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•A broad portfolio of recombinant GPCR and Ion Channel cell lines, including over 300 products and 120 ready-to-use frozen cell lines for a wide range of disease areas. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•TSA® Plus biotin kits can increase sensitivity of histochemistry and cytochemistry as much as 10 to 20 times.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The G4 PET/X-ray and G8 PET/CT preclinical imaging systems deliver PET imaging with an intuitive user interface and efficient workflows, ensuring subject monitoring throughout preparation and imaging.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Opal® 4, 5, 6, and 7 color multiplexed staining kits for amplified detection of immunohistochemistry utilized for multiple biomarker assessment in a single FFPE tumor cross section.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•AlphaPlex™ reagent technology, a homogeneous, all-in-one-well multiplexing reagent system for performing ultra-sensitive immunoassay analyses.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

6
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•OneSource® Mobile Application provides instant mobile access to service activity and equipment data including the ability to open a service call, check service history and view future scheduled events.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

New Products:

New products introduced or acquired for Discovery & Analytical Solutions applications in fiscal year 2016 include the following:

 Environmental, Food & Industrial:

•The Avio™ 200 is the smallest ICP-OES on the market, offering the lowest argon consumption of any ICP, the fastest ICP startup and the widest linear range with dual viewing technology for use in a variety of labs.

•QSight Triple Quad LC/MS/MS is a flow-based mass spectrometry system that provides high sensitivity and enables high levels of efficiency and productivity to meet both standard and regulatory requirements.

•The Delta range of milk quality analyzers help ensure the quality of dairy products and are used at Central Milk Testing labs as well as dairy processing facilities around the world.

•The Bioo Scientific test kits for detection of toxins, veterinary drug residues and contaminants enable rapid and easy testing at different steps in the food value chain.

Life Sciences Research:

•The Operetta® CLS™ high content analysis system enables scientists to reveal fine sub-cellular details from everyday assays as well as more complex studies, for example using live cells, 3D and stem cells.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•CellCarrier® Ultra 384-well microplates used in high content imaging applications such as phenotypic screening and three-dimensional disease model studies.

•PerkinElmer Signals™ for Translational, a cloud-based data management, aggregation and analysis platform, integrates experimental and clinical research data from many sources and relates the data to scientifically meaningful concepts. The platform also enables support for the complete precision medicine workflow, from data acquisition to biomarker discovery and validation.

•Clinical Data Review analytical solution provides medical monitors, safety review teams, biostatisticians, data managers, pharmacologists, and others who analyze clinical data, a powerful advanced analytics solution for overcoming data review challenges. The solution enhances clinical data management and medical review workflows, allowing organizations to make informed decisions on the safety and efficacy of therapeutics earlier in their development.

Brand Names:

Our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment offers additional products under various brand names, including:

 Environmental and Food:

AAnalyst™, Altus®, Aquamatic™, Avio™, AxION®, Clarus®, DairyGuard™, Falling Number®, Frontier™, Glutomatic™, Honigs Regression™, HyperDSC®, Inframatic™, LAMBDA™, NexION®, OilExpress™, OilPrep™, Optima™, Perten®, Perten 

7
Instruments®, PinAAcle®, QSight™, Spectrum™, Spectrum Two™, Spotlight™, Supra-clean®, Supra-d™, Supra-poly®, Syngistix™, Torion®, TurboMatrix™ and Ultraspray®.

Life Sciences Research:

 AlphaLISA®, AlphaPlex™, AlphaScreen®, Alpha™ SureFire®, Cell carrier™, cell::explorer®™, Chem3D®, ChemDraw®, ChemOffice®, Columbus™ Elements®, EnLite™, EnSight™, EnSpire®, EnVision®, EZ-Reader™, FMT®, Geospiza®, High Content Profiler™, inForm®, IVIS®, LANCE®, Living Image®, Mantra™, MicroBeta2®, NEN®, Nuance®, OneSource®, Opal®, Opera Phenix™, Operetta CLS™, PerkinElmer Signals™ for Translational, Phenoptics™, Quantulus™ GCT, Quantum™, Tri-Carb®, Vectra®, VICTOR®™, ViewLux™, VivoTag® and Wizard2®.

Diagnostics Segment

We offer instruments, reagents, assay platforms, and software to hospitals, medical labs, clinicians, and medical research professionals to help improve the health of families. Our new Diagnostics segment is especially focused on reproductive health, emerging market diagnostics, and applied genomics. Our Diagnostics business generated revenue of $602.5 million in fiscal year 2016.

Diagnostics Market:

We provide early detection for genetic disorders from pregnancy to early childhood, as well as flat panel X-ray detectors and infectious disease testing for the diagnostics market. Our screening products are designed to provide early and accurate insights into the health of expectant mothers during pregnancy and into the health of their babies. Our instruments, reagents and software test and screen for genetic abnormalities, disorders and diseases, including Down syndrome, hypothyroidism, infertility and various metabolic conditions. We also develop the technologies that enable and support sample-to-sequencer workflow using next-generation DNA sequencing for applications in oncology, genetic testing and drug discovery.

Our flat panel X-ray detectors are used within X-ray imaging systems to allow physicians to make fast and accurate diagnoses of conditions ranging from broken bones to breast cancer. In addition, our flat panel X-ray detectors are used within oncology radiation therapy systems to support more accurate tumor treatment.

Principal Products:

Our principal products and services for Diagnostics applications include the following:

Diagnostics:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The NeoGram™ MS/MS AAAC in vitro diagnostic kit is used to support detection of metabolic disorders in newborns through tandem mass spectrometry.

•The NeoBase™ Non-derivatized MS/MS kit analyzes newborn blood samples for measurement of amino acids and other metabolic analytes for specific diseases.

•The GSP® Neonatal hTSH, T4 17α-OHP, GALT IRT, BTD, PKU, Total Galactose and G6PD kits are used for screening congenital neonatal conditions from a drop of blood.

•The Specimen Gate® informatics data management solution is designed specifically for newborn screening laboratories.

•The XRpad® family of amorphous silicon (a-Si) flat panel cassette X-ray detectors enables X-ray system manufacturers to upgrade their systems from film to digital and to produce exceptional image resolution and diagnostic capability for radiography especially when imaging small anatomical features such as bone fractures and lung nodules.

•ViaCord® umbilical cord blood banking services for the banking of stem cells harvested from umbilical cord blood and cord tissue, for potential therapeutic application in transplant and regenerative medicine.

•The XRD™ family of a-Si flat panel X-ray detectors provides imaging for medical applications such as radiation therapy and veterinary imaging as well as industrial imaging applications including pipeline inspection, manufacturing inspection and 3D Cone Beam CT.

•The Dexela® family of CMOS flat panel X-ray detectors provides imaging for orthopedic surgery, mammography, dental, and industrial imaging applications such as PCB inspection and 3D Cone Beam CT.

•An expanded portfolio of molecular-based infectious disease screening technologies for blood bank and clinical laboratory settings in China. The tools include a qualitative 3-in-1 assay for the detection of hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV, as well as assays for other communicable diseases.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

8
Applied Genomics[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The LabChip GXII® Touch provides a means of characterizing multiple protein product attributes for research labs through QC.

•The cell::explorer®™ automated workstation allows integration of multiple laboratory instrumentation using a centralized robotic interface, allowing high throughput and turnkey-application focused solutions.

New Products:

Significant new products introduced or acquired for Diagnostics applications in fiscal year 2016 include the following:

Diagnostics:

•A comprehensive portfolio of Next-Generation Sequencing ("NGS") Library Prep and multiplexing kits designed to increase sensitivity, flexibility and speed for speed for sequencing platforms, offered through our acquisition of Bioo Scientific.

•Automated, precise, cost-effective Non-Invasive Prenatal Testing ("NIPT") utilizing molecular technology not requiring sequencing technology, offered through our acquisition of Vanadis Diagnostics.

•The XRD 4343RF, which supports a full 43 × 43 cm2 (17 × 17 in2) field of view providing superior imaging for fluoroscopy, radiography and cone beam CT applications. The detector offers frame rates up to 85 fps and has a direct deposited Cesium Iodide scintillator for superior image quality. 

•The Dexela 2315NDT, a fast, high resolution X-ray detector for use in realtime, 2D and 3D industrial imaging.

Brand Names:

Our Diagnostics segment offers additional products under various brand names, including AutoDELFIA®, BACS-on-Beads®, Bioo Scientific, BoBs®, Datalytix™, Dexela®, Dexela® CMOS FPDs™, Evolution™, FragilEase™, Genoglyphix®, GSP®, iLab™, JANUS®, LabChip®, LifeCycle™, LimsLink™, MultiPROBE®, Pannoramic™, Sciclone®, Specimen Gate®, TRIO™, Twister®, Vanadis, VariSpec™, ViaCord®, XRD™, XRpad® and Zephyr®.

Marketing

All of our businesses market their products and services primarily through their own specialized sales forces. As of January 1, 2017, we employed approximately 3,700 sales and service representatives operating in approximately 35 countries and marketing products and services in more than 150 countries. In geographic regions where we do not have a sales and service presence, we utilize distributors to sell our products.

Raw Materials, Key Components and Supplies

Each of our businesses uses a wide variety of raw materials, key components and supplies that are generally available from alternate sources of supply and in adequate quantities from domestic and foreign sources. We generally have multi-year contracts, with no minimum purchase requirements, with our suppliers. For certain critical raw materials, key components and supplies required for the production of some of our principal products, we have qualified only a limited or a single source of supply. We periodically purchase quantities of some of these critical raw materials in excess of current requirements, in anticipation of future manufacturing needs. With sufficient lead times, we believe we would be able to qualify alternative suppliers for each of these raw materials and key components. See the applicable risk factor in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for an additional description of this risk.

Intellectual Property

We own numerous United States and foreign patents and have patent applications pending in the United States and abroad. We also license intellectual property rights to and from third parties, some of which bear royalties and are terminable in specified circumstances. In addition to our patent portfolio, we possess a wide array of unpatented proprietary technology and know-how. We also own numerous United States and foreign trademarks and trade names for a variety of our product names, 

9
and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending in the United States and abroad. We believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to the development of both of our reporting segments, but we also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain the competitive position of both of our reporting segments. We do not believe that the loss of any one patent or other proprietary right would have a material adverse effect on our overall business or on any of our reporting segments.

In some cases, we may participate in litigation or other proceedings to defend against or assert claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or our licensors’ patents, to protect our trade secrets, know-how or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our or third parties’ intellectual property rights. Litigation of this type could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our resources. An adverse outcome in any litigation or proceeding could subject us to significant liabilities or expenses, require us to cease using disputed intellectual property or cease the sale of a product, or require us to license the disputed intellectual property from third parties.

Backlog

We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future business prospects for either of our business segments due to the short lead time required for a majority of our sales. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our business.

Competition

Due to the range and diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of competition and competitors. Our competitors range from foreign and domestic organizations, which produce a comprehensive array of goods and services and that may have greater financial and other resources than we do, to more narrowly focused firms producing a limited number of goods or services for specialized market segments.

We compete on the basis of service level, price, technological innovation, operational efficiency, product differentiation, product availability, quality and reliability. Competitors range from multinational organizations with a wide range of products to specialized firms that in some cases have well-established market positions. We expect the proportion of large competitors to increase through the continued consolidation of competitors.

Research and Development

Research and development expenditures were $124.3 million during fiscal year 2016, $112.5 million during fiscal year 2015, and $108.1 million during fiscal year 2014.

We have a broad product base, and we do not expect any single research and development project to have significant costs. To accelerate our growth initiatives, we directed our research and development efforts in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014 primarily toward our Diagnostics segment, and the environmental, food, life sciences research and laboratory services markets within our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment. We expect to continue our strong investments in research and development to drive growth during fiscal year 2017, and to continue to emphasize the Diagnostics segment, and the environmental, food, life sciences research and laboratory services markets within our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment.

Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. These requirements include those governing uses, emissions and discharges of hazardous substances, the remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater, the regulation of radioactive materials, and the health and safety of our employees.

We may have liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act and comparable state statutes that impose liability for investigation and remediation of contamination without regard to fault, in connection with materials that we or our former businesses sent to various third-party sites. We have incurred, and expect to incur, costs pursuant to these statutes.

We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. We accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. We have accrued $9.9 million and $11.8 million as of January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016, respectively, which represents our management’s estimate of the cost of the remediation of known environmental matters, and does not 

10
include any potential liability for related personal injury or property damage claims. During fiscal year 2014, we recorded a benefit of $2.3 million for cost reimbursements related to a particular site, of which $1.2 million was for future monitoring and mitigation activities. Our environmental accrual is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any material amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. The cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where we have been named a PRP, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. We expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. As assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had, or are expected to have, a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. While it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded.

We may become subject to new or unforeseen environmental costs or liabilities. Compliance with new or more stringent laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws, or the discovery of new contamination could cause us to incur additional costs.

Employees

As of January 1, 2017, we employed approximately 8,000 employees in our continuing operations. Several of our subsidiaries are parties to contracts with labor unions and workers’ councils. As of January 1, 2017, we estimate that we employed an aggregate of approximately 1,700 union and workers’ council employees. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory.

Financial Information About Business Segments

The results reported for fiscal year 2016 reflect the new alignment of our operating segments and the placement of our Medical Imaging business into discontinued operations due to its pending sale. Financial information in the table below relating to fiscal years 2015 and 2014 has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect both our new segment structure and the exclusion of our Medical Imaging business from continuing operations. 

We have included the expenses for our corporate headquarters, such as legal, tax, audit, human resources, information technology, and other management and compliance costs, as well as the activity related to the mark-to-market adjustment on postretirement benefit plans, as “Corporate” below. We have a process to allocate and recharge expenses to the reportable segments when these costs are administered or paid by the corporate headquarters based on the extent to which the segment benefited from the expenses. These amounts have been calculated in a consistent manner and are included in our calculations of segment results to internally plan and assess the performance of each segment for all purposes, including determining the compensation of the business leaders for each of our operating segments.

11
The table below sets forth revenue and operating income (loss) from continuing operations by operating segment for the fiscal years ended:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Discontinued operations have not been included in the preceding table.

Additional information relating to our reporting segments is as follows for the fiscal years ended:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

12
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financial Information About Geographic Areas

Both of our reporting segments conduct business in, and derive substantial revenue from, various countries outside the United States. During fiscal year 2016, we had $1,273.2 million in sales from our international operations, representing approximately 60% of our total sales. During fiscal year 2016, we derived approximately 75% of our international sales from our Discovery & Analytical Solutions segment and approximately 25% of our international sales from our Diagnostics segment. We anticipate that sales from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total sales in the future.

We are exposed to the risks associated with international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, regional and country-specific political and economic conditions, foreign receivables collection concerns, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, tax risks, staffing and labor law concerns, intellectual property protection risks, and differing regulatory requirements. Additional geographic information is discussed in Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.

Item 1A.Risk Factors