Item 7 —Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

This discussion includes references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G of the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission ('SEC'). We present such non-GAAP financial measures, specifically, organic growth in commissions and fees, adjusted operating margin, adjusted operating income, adjusted net income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations, as we believe such information is of interest to the investment community because it provides additional meaningful methods of evaluating certain aspects of the Company's operating performance from period to period on a basis that may not be otherwise apparent on a GAAP basis. Organic growth in commissions and fees excludes the impact of acquisitions and disposals, period over period movements in foreign currency , and investment and other income from growth in revenues. Adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations are calculated by excluding the impact of certain specified items from operating income, net income or loss from continuing operations, and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations, respectively, the most directly comparable GAAP measures. Our methods of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. These financial measures should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013.

This discussion includes forward-looking statements, including under the headings 'Executive Summary', 'Liquidity and Capital Resources', 'Critical Accounting Estimates' and 'Contractual Obligations'. Please see 'Forward-Looking Statements' for certain cautionary information regarding forward-looking statements and a list of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in those statements.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Business Overview

We provide a broad range of insurance broking, risk management and consulting services to our clients worldwide and organize our business into three segments: Global, North America and International.

Our Global business provides specialist brokerage and consulting services to clients worldwide arising from specific industries and activities including Aerospace; Energy; Marine; Construction, Property and Casualty; Financial and Executive Risks; Financial Solutions; Faber Global; Fine Art, Jewelry and Specie; Special Contingency Risks; Hughes-Gibbs; Willis Capital Markets & Advisory; Placement and Reinsurance. 

North America and International comprise: our retail operations and provide services to small, medium and large corporations; and the Human Capital practice, our largest product-based practice group, provides health, welfare and human resources consulting and brokerage services.

In our capacity as advisor and insurance broker, we act as an intermediary between our clients and insurance carriers by advising our clients on their risk management requirements, helping clients determine the best means of managing risk, and negotiating and placing insurance with insurance carriers through our global distribution network.

We derive most of our revenues from commissions and fees for brokerage and consulting services and do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Commission levels generally follow the same trend as premium levels as they are derived from a percentage of the premiums paid by the insureds. Fluctuations in these premiums charged by the insurance carriers can therefore have a direct and potentially material impact on our results of operations.

Due to the cyclical nature of the insurance market and the impact of other market conditions on insurance premiums, commission revenues may vary widely between accounting periods. A period of low or declining premium rates, generally known as a 'soft' or 'softening' market, generally leads to downward pressure on commission revenues and can have a material adverse impact on our commission revenues and operating margin. A 'hard' or 'firming' market, during which premium rates rise, generally has a favorable impact on our commission revenues and operating margin. Rates, however, vary by geography, industry and client segment. As a result and due to the global and diverse nature of our business, we view rates holistically.

29
Willis Group Holdings plc

Market Conditions

Market conditions in our industry are generally defined by factors such as the strength of the economies in the various geographic regions in which we serve around the world, insurance rate movements, and insurance and reinsurance buying patterns of our clients. 

The industry and market in general throughout 2011 and early 2012 experienced modest increase in catastrophe-exposed property insurance and reinsurance pricing levels driven by significant catastrophe losses including the Japanese earthquake and tsunami, the New Zealand earthquake and, late in 2012, Super Storm Sandy. Also during that period, direct carriers in North America, facing persistent low investment returns, started to modestly raise rates in certain products. This firming rate environment, however, generally did not extend beyond North America to impact our International retail business.

Early in 2013 the reinsurance market was generally flat, however, as the year progressed we saw changing market sentiment driven by changes in the sources of capital and increases in capital supply in the reinsurance market, most notably within the North American catastrophe-exposed property market. The influx of third party capital coupled with changes to reinsurance buying patterns and regulatory complexity is leading to growing complexity in the reinsurance market and a softening of prices.

This pattern of new capacity and market entrants coupled with strong underwriting performance in 2013, due to the absence of natural and man-made catastrophes, means that the trend of price softening is continuing as we enter 2014 and is extending to other lines of business, not just catastrophe exposed property.

The outlook for our business, operating results and financial condition continues to be challenging due to the global economic condition. There are signs of improving conditions both in the US, and within certain European Union countries, including a return to sustained GDP growth in certain countries. If conditions in the Global economy, including the US, the UK and the Eurozone deteriorate, there will likely be a negative effect on our business as well as the businesses of our clients. 

In the face of this challenging economic environment we have adopted a strategy to invest selectively in growth areas, defined by geography, industry sector and client segment, and to better align our three segments so as to, among other things, bring our clients greater access to the Company's specialty areas and analytical capabilities. Our growth strategy also involves increasing our investment in, and deployment of, our analytical capabilities. 

Financial Performance

Consolidated Financial Performance

2013 compared to 2012 

Total revenues in 2013 of $3,655 million increased by $175 million, or 5.0 percent, compared to 2012. This included organic growth in commissions and fees of 4.9 percent, and 0.5 percent growth from acquisitions and disposals. Organic growth was achieved in all three of our operating segments led by Global with 5.6 percent. Our North America operations reported organic growth of 4.9 percent, which included a $5 million positive revenue recognition adjustment. Our International operations achieved organic growth of 4.1 percent despite recognizing a $15 million negative revenue recognition adjustment. Foreign currency movements had a negative $12 million or 0.3 percent impact on commissions and fees in 2013. 

Total expenses for 2013 of $2,970 million were $719 million or 19.5 percent lower compared to 2012. 

The 2013 total expenses included $46 million related to the Expense Reduction Initiative (see 'Expense Reduction Initiative' section below) conducted earlier in the year. The 2012 total expenses included a $492 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to our North American reporting unit, a $200 million write-off of unamortized cash retention awards following the decision to eliminate the repayment requirement of past awards, and a $252 million expense related to the accrual for 2012 cash bonuses paid in 2013. Foreign currency movements had a $9 million positive impact on total expenses in 2013. 

Excluding the items noted above, total expenses in 2013 were $188 million, or 6.8 percent, higher than in 2012. The largest driver of this was the increase in salaries and benefits due to annual salary reviews, higher charges for share-based compensation and new hires and investments in targeted businesses and geographies. In addition to these, we recorded higher incentives as a result of growth in commissions and fees, and the change in remuneration policy. Other operating expenses also increased due to travel, accommodation and client entertaining costs to support business development, marketing costs, strategic review charges and higher professional fees.

30
Business discussion

The Company incurred a loss on extinguishment of debt of $60 million from the refinancing that was completed during 2013. 

The tax rate for the full year was affected by an incremental US tax expense of $9 million recorded after taking into account the impact of adjustments to the valuation allowance placed against our US deferred tax assets.

Earnings from associates were down $5 million, net of tax, mainly due to costs of a reorganization program in our principal associate, Gras Savoye.

Net income attributable to Willis shareholders from continuing operations was $365 million or $2.04 per diluted share in 2013 compared to a loss of $446 million or $2.58 per diluted share in 2012. The $811 million increase in net income compared to 2012 can be attributed primarily to the non-recurrence of the 2012 items discussed above and growth in commissions and fees partially offset by growth in expenses. 

2012 compared to 2011 

Total revenues in 2012 of $3,480 million increased by $33 million, or 1.0 percent, compared to 2011, including a $59 million or 1.7 percent negative impact from movements in foreign exchange. Organic growth in commissions and fees of 3.1 percent was driven by our International and Global operations. Our North America operations reported a decline of 0.6 percent in commissions and fees, due to lower revenues generated by Loan Protector, a specialty business acquired as part of the HRH business, and the continued adverse impact of difficult economic conditions in the US.

Total expenses in 2012 of $3,689 million increased $808 million compared to 2011, primarily due to the recognition of a $492 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to our North American reporting unit, a $200 million write-off of unamortized cash retention awards following the decision to eliminate the repayment requirement of past awards, and a $252 million expense related to the accrual for 2012 cash bonuses paid in 2013.

Excluding these expenses, total operating expenses declined $136 million, or 4.7 percent, principally due to $180 million expense recognized in 2011 related to the Operational Review and favorable movements in foreign exchange partially offset by increases in salary and benefits expenses linked to annual pay reviews, new hires and investments in targeted businesses and geographies.

Net loss attributable to Willis shareholders from continuing operations was $446 million or a loss of $2.58 per diluted share in 2012 compared to a profit of $203 million or $1.15 per diluted share in 2011. The $649 million decrease in net income compared to 2011 primarily reflects the increase in total expenses described above and the $113 million charge to establish a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets in our US operations, partially offset by the non-recurrence of the $131 million post-tax cost in 2011 relating to the make-whole amounts on the repurchase and redemption of $500 million of our senior debt and the write-off of related unamortized debt issuance costs and by the revenue growth achieved during the year. Net income in 2012 was also adversely impacted by a $7 million reduction in interest in earnings of associates, net of tax, mainly due to declining performance in our principal associate, Gras Savoye.

31
Willis Group Holdings plc

Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted Net Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share from Continuing Operations

Our non-GAAP measures of adjusted operating income, adjusted net income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations are calculated by excluding the impact of certain items (as detailed below) from operating income (loss), net income (loss) from continuing operations, and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations, respectively, the most directly comparable GAAP measures. 

The following items are excluded from operating income (loss) and net income (loss) from continuing operations as applicable:

(i)the additional incentive accrual recognized following the replacement of annual cash retention awards with annual cash bonuses which will not feature a repayment requirement;

(ii)write-off of unamortized cash retention awards following the decision to eliminate the repayment requirement on past awards;

(iii)goodwill impairment charge; 

(iv)valuation allowance against deferred tax assets;

(v)write-off of uncollectible accounts receivable balance and associated legal fees arising in Chicago due to fraudulent overstatement of commissions and fees;

(vi)costs associated with the 2011 Operational Review; 

(vii)significant legal and regulatory settlements which are managed centrally; 

(viii)gains and losses on the disposal of operations; 

(ix)insurance recoveries; 

(x)make-whole amounts on repurchase and redemption of senior notes and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs;

(xi)loss and fees related to the extinguishment of debt; and

(xii)costs associated with the Expense Reduction Initiative.

We believe that excluding these items, as applicable, from operating income (loss), net income (loss) from continuing operations and earnings per diluted share from continuing operations provides a more complete and consistent comparative analysis of our results of operations. We use these and other measures to establish Group performance targets and evaluate the performance of our operations.

As set out in the tables below, adjusted operating margin at 20.0 percent in 2013, was down 160 basis points compared to 2012, while adjusted net income from continuing operations at $472 million was $18 million higher than in 2012. Adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations was $2.64 in 2013, compared to $2.58 in 2012.

32
Business discussion

A reconciliation of reported operating income or loss, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, to adjusted operating income is as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Additional incentive accrual recognized following the replacement of annual cash retention awards with annual cash bonuses which will not feature a repayment requirement. 

(b) Write-off of unamortized cash retention awards following the decision to eliminate the repayment requirement on past awards.

(c) Non-cash charge recognized related to the impairment of the carrying value of the North America reporting unit's goodwill.

(d) $11 million settlement with former partners related to the termination of a joint venture arrangement in India. In addition, a $1 million loss on disposal of operations was recorded related to the termination.

(e) Insurance recovery related to the previously disclosed fraudulent activity in Chicago. See 'Correction of Commissions and Fees Overstatement Relating to 2011 and Prior Periods', below.

(f) Write-off of uncollectible accounts receivable balance relating to periods prior to January 1, 2011, see 'Correction of Commissions and Fees Overstatement Relating to 2011 and Prior Periods', below. 

(g) Charge relating to the 2011 Operational Review, including $98 million of severance costs related to the elimination of approximately 1,200 positions for the full year 2011.

(h) Regulatory settlement with the UK Financial Services Authority (FSA), now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 

(i) Charge related to the assessment of the Company's organizational design. See 'Expense Reduction Initiative' section below.

33
Willis Group Holdings plc

A reconciliation of reported net income or loss from continuing operations and reported earnings per diluted share from continuing operations, the most directly comparable GAAP measures, to adjusted net income from continuing operations and adjusted earnings per diluted share from continuing operations is as follows (in millions, except per share data):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Additional incentive accrual recognized following the replacement of annual cash retention awards with annual cash bonuses which will not feature a repayment requirement.

(b) Write-off of unamortized cash retention awards debtor following the decision to eliminate the repayment requirement on past awards.

(c) Non-cash charge recognized related to the impairment of the carrying value of the North America reporting unit's goodwill.

(d) $11 million settlement with former partners related to the termination of a joint venture arrangement in India. In addition, a $1 million loss on disposal of operations was recorded related to the termination. 

(e) Insurance recovery related to the previously disclosed fraudulent activity in Chicago. See 'Correction of Commissions and Fees Overstatement Relating to 2011 and Prior Periods', below. 

(f) Write-off of uncollectible accounts receivable balance relating to periods prior to January 1, 2011, see 'Correction of Commissions and Fees Overstatement Relating to 2011 and Prior Periods', below. 

(g) Charge relating to the 2011 Operational Review, including $98 million pre-tax of severance costs related to the elimination of approximately 1,200 positions for the full year 2011.

(h) Regulatory settlement with the UK Financial Services Authority (FSA), now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 

(i) Charge related to the assessment of the Company's organizational design. See 'Expense Reduction Initiative' section below.

(j) Potentially issuable shares were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, GAAP basis, because the Company's net loss from continuing operations rendered their impact anti-dilutive.

34
Business discussion

Goodwill Impairment 

Our annual goodwill impairment analysis is performed each year at October 1. At October 1, 2013 our analysis showed the estimated fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of the carrying value, and therefore did not result in an impairment charge (2012: $492 million; 2011: $nil). 

In 2012 an impairment charge for the North America reporting unit was required and amounted to $492 million. There was no impairment for the Global and International reporting units, as the fair values of these units were significantly in excess of their carrying value.

Correction of Commissions and Fees Overstatement Relating to 2011 and Prior Periods

As previously disclosed, in early 2012 we identified through our internal financial control process and a subsequent internal investigation an uncollectible accounts receivable balance of approximately $40 million in Chicago from the fraudulent overstatement of Commissions and fees from the years 2005 to 2011.

We concluded that the total $40 million of overstatement did not materially affect our previously issued financial statements for any of the prior periods and we corrected the misstatement by recognizing a charge to Other operating expenses to write off the uncollectible receivable (a) of $13 million (including legal expenses) in the first quarter of 2012 and (b) of $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. In the fourth quarter 2011 we also reversed a $6 million balance of Commissions and fees which had been recorded during 2011 and $2 million of Salaries and benefits expense representing an over-accrual of production bonuses relating to the overstated revenue. During 2012, we recorded within Other operating expenses a $10 million insurance settlement from insurers in respect of our claim under Group insurance policies, for compensation paid out in the years 2005 to 2010 on the fraudulently overstated revenues discussed above.

The employees in question, who have been terminated, were not members of Willis executive management nor did they play a significant role in internal control over financial reporting. Based on the results of our investigation, which has now been completed, we do not believe that any client or carrier funds were misappropriated or that any other business units were affected. 

We have enhanced our internal controls in relation to the business unit in question, including enhanced procedures over receipt of checks and application of cash, increased segregation of duties between the operating unit and the accounting and settlement function, and additional central sign off requirement on revenue recognition.

Expense Reduction Initiative 

The Company recorded a pre-tax charge of $46 million in the first quarter of 2013 related to the previously announced assessment of the Company's organizational design. In connection with this assessment, we incurred the following pre-tax charges:

•$29 million of severance and other staff related costs towards the elimination of 207 positions; and

•$17 million of Other operating expenses and Depreciation resulting from the rationalization of property and systems.

The Company did not incur any further charges related to this review.

The actions taken resulted in total cost savings of approximately $20 million exclusive of the costs incurred in 2013. It is also anticipated that we will achieve prospective annualized cost savings of approximately $25 million to $30 million.

Cash Retention Awards

For the past several years, certain cash retention awards under the Company's annual incentive programs included a feature which required the recipient to repay a proportionate amount of the annual award if the employee voluntarily left the Company before a specified date, which was generally three years following the award. As previously disclosed, the Company made the cash payment to the recipient in the year of grant and recognized the payment in expense ratably over the period it was subject to repayment, beginning in the quarter in which the award was made. The unamortized portion of cash retention awards was recorded within 'other current assets' and 'other non-current assets' in the consolidated balance sheets.

The following table sets out the amount of cash retention awards made and the related amortization of those awards for the three years ended December 31, 2013.

35
Willis Group Holdings plc

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In December 2012, the Company decided to eliminate the repayment requirement from past annual cash retention awards and, as a result, recognized a non-cash, pre-tax charge of $200 million which represents the write-off of the unamortized balance of past awards at that date.

There were, however, a number of off-cycle awards with a fixed period guarantee attached, for which we have not waived the repayment requirement. The unamortized portion of these awards amounted to $15 million at December 31, 2013 (2012: $9 million; 2011: $196 million).

In addition, in 2012, the Company replaced annual cash retention awards with annual cash bonuses which did not include a repayment requirement. As at December 31, 2012, the Company had accrued $252 million for these bonuses.

Pension Expense

We recorded a net periodic benefit income on our UK defined benefit pension plan in 2013 of $5 million (2012: $5 million; 2011: cost of $6 million). On our US defined benefit pension plan, we recorded a net periodic benefit income of $4 million in 2013 (2012: cost of $3 million; 2011: $nil). On our other defined benefit pension plans, we recorded a net pension cost of $5 million in 2013 (2012: $4 million; 2011: $5 million).

The periodic benefit income on the UK plan in 2013 is flat compared to 2012 as higher asset returns were offset by higher amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses and increased service costs.

The movement to $5 million income on the UK plan in 2012 from a $6 million cost in 2011 was primarily due to higher asset returns partially offset by higher amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses and increased interest cost.

On the US plan, the movement to a $4 million income in 2013 from a $3 million cost in 2012 was primarily due to higher asset returns. 

The 2012 US pension cost was $3 million higher compared with 2011 was primarily due to an increase in amortization of unrecognized actuarial losses partially offset by higher asset returns.

See 'Contractual Obligations' below for further information on our obligations relating to our pension plans.

Acquisitions and Disposals

In first quarter 2014 the Company agreed to acquire Charles Monat Limited, a market-leading life insurance solutions adviser to high net worth clients. The acquisition represents a key enhancement to our expanding Global Wealth Solutions practice, particularly in Asia, however completion of the transaction is currently subject to regulatory approval. 

During first quarter 2014 the Company disposed of Insurance Noodle, a small online wholesale business in Willis North America, to Insureon.

In fourth quarter 2013 the Company acquired the employee benefits consulting division of Capital Strategies Group, Inc. based in Birmingham, Alabama. We disposed of the trade and assets associated with Willis of Northern New England to a small Maine-based broker specializing in attorneys, not-for-profit organizations, hospitals and contractors. 

In third quarter 2013, the Company disposed of the trade and assets associated with CBT, our book of small commercial clients in the UK, to Chesham Insurance Brokers.

In second quarter 2013, the Company acquired 100 percent of PPH Limited and its subsidiary Prime Professions Limited (together referred to as Prime Professions), a leading UK based professional indemnity insurance broker, at a cost of $29 million. 

In first quarter 2013, the Company acquired 100 percent of CBC Broker Srl, an Italian broker, at a cost of $1 million. 

36
Business discussion

Management Structure

During first quarter 2014 we announced changes to the structure of our UK-based insurance operations, combining our Global Specialty insurance business with the Willis UK retail business to create a market leading client proposition. Following this change, effective January 1, 2014, UK retail, previously reported as part of our International reporting segment will be reported in our Global reporting segment.

In addition, effective January 1, 2014 Mexico which was previously reported within our North America reporting segment, will be reported in our International reporting segment, Placement which was previously reported as part of our Global reporting segment will be reported within Corporate and other, and our US Captive consulting business and Facultative reinsurance businesses, which were previously reported as part of our North America reporting segment will be reported in our Global reporting segment.

37
Willis Group Holdings plc

Business Strategy

Today we operate in attractive growth markets with a diversified platform across geographies, industries, segments and lines of business. We aim to become the risk advisor, insurance and reinsurance broker of choice globally.

We will achieve this by being completely focused on:

•where we compete and that means the areas where we can succeed by:

◦Geography - we will re-balance our business mix towards faster growing geographies, with both developed and developing markets

◦Client Segmentation - we will segment our client offering to provide distinct offerings to different types of client, focusing on the value we provide to our clients

◦Sector - we will build business lines around our industry and sector strength e.g. Human Capital and Employee Benefits.

•How we compete which will be centered on meeting the needs of our client by:

◦Connection - leading to more cross-selling

◦Innovation - competing on analytics and innovation

◦Investment - focusing on earnings accretion, competitive position and fit

Through these strategies we aim to grow revenue with positive operating leverage, grow cash flows and generate compelling returns for investors.

38
Business discussion

REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS

The following table is a summary of our revenues, operating income (loss), operating margin, net income (loss) and diluted earnings per share (in millions, except per share data and percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

39
Willis Group Holdings plc

Consolidated Results for 2013 compared to 2012 

Revenues

Total revenues by segment for 2013 and 2012 are shown below (millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Organic commissions and fees growth excludes: (i) the impact of foreign currency translation; (ii) the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions; and (iii) the net commission and fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each period presented. 

(b) North America commissions and fees in 2013 included the positive impact of a $5 million adjustment to align the recognition of revenue in the North America Personal Lines business with the rest of the Group.

(c) International commissions and fees in 2013 included the negative impact of a $15 million adjustment to align the recognition of revenue in China with the rest of the Group.

Our methods of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.

Total revenues increased by $175 million, or 5.0 percent, in 2013 compared to 2012. This was primarily due to 5.1 percent growth in commissions and fees and an increase of $3 million in other income arising from the disposal of books of business, partially offset by a $3 million decrease in investment income due to continued falling yields on deposits.

Total commissions and fees in 2013 were $3,633 million, up $175 million, or 5.1 percent, from $3,458 million in 2012. This increase was due to organic growth of 4.9 percent and growth through acquisitions and disposals of 0.5 percent partially offset by negative foreign currency movements of $13 million or 0.3 percent. 

Organic growth of 4.9 percent was driven by low double-digit new business growth tempered by lost business.

Commissions and fees were reduced by a net $9 million impact of two revenue recognition adjustments in the North America and International segments discussed below.

The Global segment reported 5.7 percent growth in commissions and fees, comprising 5.6 percent organic growth and a net 1.0 percent growth from acquisitions and disposals mainly due to Prime Professions which was acquired in second quarter 2013. This growth was partially offset by a 0.9 percent negative impact from foreign currency translation. 

Organic commissions and fees growth of 5.6 percent was led by high single-digit growth in Reinsurance, where all the divisions reported positive growth. Global Specialties reported mid single-digit growth primarily due to strong growth from Financial and Executive Risk, and P&C and Construction. Willis Capital Markets & Advisory performed solidly but was down compared to the very strong result it recorded in 2012 relating to meaningfully higher volumes of advisory fees and catastrophe bond deals. 

The North America segment reported 5.4 percent growth in commissions and fees compared to 2012. This comprised organic growth of 4.9 percent and acquisitions of 0.6 percent from Avalon Actuarial Inc., which was acquired at the end of fourth quarter 2012, partially offset by a negative 0.1 percent impact from foreign currency translation. Organic growth in commissions and fees was positively impacted by a $5 million adjustment to align the recognition of revenue in the North America Personal Lines business with the rest of the Group.

Organic growth was driven by double-digit new business growth and increased client retention levels compared to 2012. Growth was achieved across all of our North America regions, led by the Metro, Midwest, Canada and CAPPPS regions. 

40
Business discussion

Similarly, most of the major practice groups recorded positive growth including mid-single digit growth in our two largest practices, Human Capital and Construction.

The International segment reported 3.9 percent growth in commissions and fees compared with 2012, comprising 4.1 percent organic growth slightly offset by a 0.2 percent negative impact from foreign currency translation. Organic growth in commissions and fees included the negative impact of a $15 million adjustment to align the recognition of revenue in China with the rest of the Group. 

Organic growth was led by double-digit growth in our Latin America region and high single-digit growth in Eastern Europe. We reported low single-digit growth in Western Europe, despite the generally weak economic conditions within the region. Despite the negative impact of the $15 million revenue adjustment, we recorded good growth in Asia, predominantly in Hong Kong and Singapore. We also reported low single-digit growth in Australasia.

Organic commissions and fees growth by segment is discussed further in 'Review of Segmental Results', below.

Salaries and Benefits

Salaries and benefits were $268 million, or 10.8 percent, lower in 2013 compared with 2012. Foreign currency movements lowered salaries and benefits by $9 million, or 0.4 percent. 

In 2012 we recorded a $452 million charge as a result of the change in remuneration policy for future incentive awards and the elimination of the repayment requirement on past awards. Excluding the impact of this change and foreign currency movements, salaries and benefits were up by $193 million or 9.5 percent. This increase is primarily due to annual salary reviews, increased headcount due to targeted investments, increased incentives from the change in remuneration policy and growth in commissions and fees, and an additional charge to increase the 401(k) match. It also includes $29 million relating to the Expense Reduction Initiative that was undertaken in first quarter 2013 (see 'Executive Summary - Expense Reduction Initiative' section above for further details).

Other Expenses

Other operating expenses were $35 million, or 6.0 percent, higher in 2013 compared with 2012. The $35 million increase includes $12 million of costs that were incurred in first quarter 2013 as part of our Expense Reduction Initiative (see 'Executive Summary - Expense Reduction Initiative' above for details).

The remaining $23 million increase was primarily due to higher business development costs, consulting and professional fees to assist us in our growth initiatives, and marketing costs. 

Depreciation expense was $94 million in 2013, compared with $79 million in 2012. The increase of $15 million includes $5 million which was incurred in first quarter 2013 relating to the rationalization of property and systems as part of our Expense Reduction Initiative (see 'Executive Summary - Expense Reduction Initiative' above for details). The remaining $10 million increase is primarily due to a number of significant information technology related projects becoming operational during the year and the write-off of replaced systems and other assets.

Amortization of intangible assets was $55 million in 2013, a reduction of $4 million compared to 2012. The decrease primarily reflects the ongoing reduction in the HRH acquisition amortization.

Net gain on disposal of operations of $2 million was related principally to the disposal of our share in an Iberian associate.

Loss on Extinguishment of Debt

The Company incurred total losses on extinguishment of debt of $60 million during the year ended December 31, 2013. This was made up of a tender premium of $65 million, the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs of $2 million and a credit for the reduction of the fair value adjustment on 5.625% senior notes due 2015 of $7 million.

41
Willis Group Holdings plc

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate on ordinary income for 2013 was 20 percent, compared with 25 percent for 2012. The effective tax rate on ordinary income is calculated before the impact of certain discrete items. Discrete items occurring in 2013 with a significant impact on the tax rate were:

•an incremental US tax expense of $9 million recorded after the taking into account the impact of adjustments to the valuation allowance placed against US deferred tax assets, US costs of $16 million associated with the Expense Reduction Initiative, and US costs of $61 million associated with the extinguishment of debt;

•further non-US costs of $30 million associated with the Expense Reduction Initiative that are generally relieved at a rate higher than the underlying rate;

•a net benefit of $4 million associated with a reduction in the corporation tax rate being applied to temporary tax differences in the UK;

•a net benefit of $7 million associated with a change in the recognition of unrecognized tax benefits outside of the US; and

•a net expense of $1 million associated with tax on profits of prior periods to bring in line the Company’s tax provision to filed tax positions.

Including the impact of discrete items, the tax rate for 2013 was 24 percent. This compares to a tax charge of $101 million recorded on the net loss from continuing operations of $337 million in 2012.

Interest in Earnings of Associates, net of Tax

The majority of our interest in earnings of associates relates to our share of ownership of Gras Savoye, the leading broker in France. Interest in earnings of associates, net of tax, in 2013 was $nil compared to $5 million in 2012. The decline was mainly driven by lower net income recorded in Gras Savoye due to the costs recognized in relation to a reorganization program undertaken in the year designed to drive growth in revenues and operational efficiencies.

Consolidated Results for 2012 compared to 2011 

Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Organic commissions and fees growth excludes: (i) the impact of foreign currency translation; (ii) the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions; and (iii) the net commission and fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each period presented.

Our methods of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited.

42
Business discussion

Total revenues increased by $33 million, or 1.0 percent, in 2012 compared to 2011, including 3.1 percent growth in organic commissions and fees partially offset by a $59 million, or 1.8 percent, negative impact from foreign exchange and a $13 million decrease in investment income due to continued falling yields on deposits.

Total commissions and fees in 2012 were $3,458 million, up $44 million, or 1.3 percent, from $3,414 million in 2011. Foreign currency movements negatively impacted commissions and fees by 1.8 percent. Organic commissions and fees growth was 3.1 percent. 

New business growth was in the double-digits and there were modest benefits in the year from improving rates in certain business lines and geographies; these positive movements were however, offset by a slight increase in lost business.

The Global segment reported 4.8 percent growth in commissions and fees, comprising 6.1 percent organic growth in commissions and fees and a 1.3 percent negative impact from foreign currency translation. Organic commissions and fees growth of 6.1 percent was led by high single-digit growth across Reinsurance and Willis Faber & Dumas. Global Specialties reported low single-digit growth as strong growth from our Marine, Energy, Financial Solutions, and Construction specialties were partially offset by declines in Aerospace, which continues to be hampered by competitive pricing and a soft rate environment.

The North America segment reported a 0.6 percent decline in organic commissions and fees, compared to 2011. Whilst new business levels were higher than in 2011 resulting in growth in certain regions and business segments, these were more than offset by lower Loan Protector revenues, the impact of the weakened economy, which negatively impacted our Construction and Human Capital practice groups, and a modest decrease in client retention levels.

The International segment reported essentially flat growth in commissions and fees compared with 2011, comprising 4.9 percent organic commissions and fees growth and a 4.8 percent negative impact from foreign currency translation. Organic growth in commissions and fees was led by double digit growth in our Latin America region, supported by high single-digit growth in Asia and Eastern Europe. Our Western Europe operations reported low single-digit growth despite the continued weakness of economies within the Eurozone.

Investment income in 2012 at $18 million was $13 million lower than in 2011, primarily due to declining net yields on cash and cash equivalents. Organic commissions and fees growth by segment is discussed further in 'Review of Segmental Results', below.

Salaries and Benefits

Salaries and benefits increased by $388 million, or 18.6 percent, in 2012 compared with 2011. Foreign currency movements lowered salaries and benefits by $34 million, or 1.6 percent. The year-on-year net favorable impact from foreign currency translation was driven primarily by the movement of the US dollar against the pound sterling (in which our London Market based operations incur the majority of their expenses).

Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, salaries and benefits increased by $422 million, or 20.2 percent, compared with 2011 primarily due to the $452 million expense recognized as a result of the change in remuneration policy for future incentive awards and the elimination of the repayment requirement on past awards; an approximate $55 million increase in salaries, including associated taxes and benefits, resulting from new hires and annual pay reviews; increases in incentives linked to production; long term incentive plans and the amortization of cash retention awards. These increases were partially offset by the $135 million expense recognized in salaries and benefits associated with the 2011 Operational Review and lower defined benefit pension plan expenses. 

Other Expenses

Other operating expenses were $75 million, or 11.4 percent, lower in 2012 compared with 2011. Foreign currency movements positively impacted expenses by $35 million, or 5.3 percent. 

Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, other operating expenses decreased by $40 million or 6.1 percent compared with 2011 primarily due to the non-recurrence of the $73 million expense recognized in other operating expenses associated with the 2011 Operational Review and the $10 million insurance recovery in 2012 related to the previously disclosed fraudulent activity, partially offset by increases in certain other costs, including provisioning for bad debts and higher technology expenditure.

43
Willis Group Holdings plc

Depreciation expense was $79 million in 2012, compared with $74 million in 2011. The increase is primarily due to a number of information technology related projects becoming operational at the end of 2011 and during first half 2012 partially offset by $5 million depreciation charge incurred in 2011 related to the Operational Review.

Amortization of intangible assets was $59 million in 2012, a reduction of $9 million compared to 2011. The decrease primarily reflects the ongoing reduction in the HRH acquisition amortization.

Goodwill impairment charge was $492 million in 2012. This was a non-cash charge recognized related to the impairment of the carrying value of the North America reporting unit's goodwill. For further information on our testing for goodwill impairment, see 'Critical Accounting Estimates', below.

Net loss on disposal of operations of $3 million was related principally to the dissolution of a joint venture operation in India and loss recognized on disposal of Mauritian reinsurance operation. 

Interest Expense

Interest expense was $128 million in 2012 compared to $156 million in 2011. The decrease in interest expense primarily reflects the non-recurrence of a $10 million write-off of debt fees in 2011 related to the refinancing of the term loan and revolving credit facility and savings as a result of the lower coupon payable and reduced fee amortization on our new debt issued in March 2011 and December 2011.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate on ordinary income for 2012 was 25 per cent, compared with 24 per cent for 2011, with the increase driven primarily by higher than anticipated US state income tax expense, the benefit from the higher tax rates at which costs associated with the 2011 Operational Review are relieved and from a different geographic mix of earnings. The effective tax rate on ordinary income is calculated before the impact of certain discrete items. Discrete items occurring in 2012 with a significant impact on the tax rate are:

•a tax credit of $34 million on the $492 million charge related to the impairment of the carrying value of the North America reporting unit's goodwill. The tax credit arises in relation to that part of the charge that is attributable to tax deductible goodwill;

•tax related to the $252 million charge for the additional incentive accrual arising from a change in remuneration policy which is generally relieved at a higher rate than the underlying rate;

•tax related to the $200 million charge for the write-off of unamortized retention awards which is generally relieved at a higher rate than the underlying rate;

•a valuation allowance of $125 million made against US deferred tax assets recorded following cumulative losses being incurred in the US. The cumulative losses are primarily attributable to exceptional charges associated with the 2011 Operational review, the impairment of North America goodwill and the additional incentive costs associated with the change in remuneration policy. Of the total valuation allowance, $113 million was recorded in the income statement and $12 million in other comprehensive income;

•a non-deductible charge of $11 million for a settlement with former partners related to the termination of a joint venture arrangement in India;

•adjustments made in respect of tax on profits of prior periods to bring in line the Company's tax provisions to filed tax positions; and

•the net tax impact of the $3 million loss on disposal of operations. 

Including the impact of discrete items, a tax charge of $101 million was recorded on a net loss from continuing operations before interest in earnings of associates of $337 million. This compares to a tax rate of 13 percent in 2011.

44
Business discussion

Interest in Earnings of Associates, net of Tax

The majority of our interest in earnings of associates relates to our share of ownership of Gras Savoye, the leading broker in France. Interest in earnings of associates, net of tax, in 2012 was $5 million compared to $12 million in 2011. The decline was mainly driven by a reduction in net income reported by our principal associate, Gras Savoye.

Similar to many businesses located in the Eurozone, Gras Savoye's operations are being pressured by the economic conditions. In addition, Gras Savoye appointed a new CEO and began undergoing a business review that was designed to drive growth in revenues and improve operational efficiencies.

Discontinued Operations, net of Tax

There were no discontinued operations in 2012. 

In 2011 the Company disposed of Global Special Risks, LLC, Faber & Dumas Canada Ltd and the trade and assets of Maclean, Oddy & Associates, Inc. The gain (net of tax) on this disposal was $2 million.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Liquidity

We believe that our balance sheet and strong cash flow provide us with the platform and flexibility to remain committed to our cash allocation strategy of:

•investing in the business for growth;

•value-creating merger and acquisition activity;

•generating a steadily rising dividend; and

•the repurchase of shares. 

Our principal sources of liquidity are cash from operations, available cash and cash equivalents and amounts available under our three revolving credit facilities, excluding the UK facility which is solely for use by our main regulated UK entity in certain exceptional circumstances.

Our principal short-term uses of liquidity and capital resources are operating expenses, capital expenditures, shareholder returns, funding defined benefit pension plans and the repurchase of shares.

Our long-term liquidity requirements consist of the principal amount of outstanding notes; borrowings under our 7-year term loan and revolving credit facilities; and our pension contributions as discussed below.

As at December 31, 2013 cash and cash equivalents were $796 million, an increase of $296 million compared to December 31, 2012. Included within cash and cash equivalents is $707 million available for corporate purposes and $89 million held within our regulated UK entities for regulatory capital adequacy requirements. 

Cash flows from operating activities increased to $561 million in 2013 from $525 million in 2012. In addition, funds were also provided from the disposal of fixed and intangible assets $12 million (2012: $5 million), $155 million proceeds from the issue of shares (2012: $53 million), and $20 million proceeds from the disposal of operations (2012: $nil). 

As at December 31, 2013 there was $nil drawn down on the revolving credit facilities (2012: $nil).

The primary uses of funds during 2013 included $346 million of cash incentive award payments relating to 2012, $193 million related to payments of dividends, $150 million cash contributions, including employees' salary sacrifice contributions, to our defined benefit schemes, capital expenditures of $112 million related to leasehold improvements, information technology and transformation projects, $30 million for the acquisition of Prime Professions and CBC Broker Srl, and a $4 million cash payment to acquire the remaining noncontrolling interest in our Colombia reinsurance operation.

45
Willis Group Holdings plc

Based on current market conditions and information available to us at this time, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our cash needs for the next twelve months.

The Company is authorized to buy back its ordinary shares by way of redemption, and intends to buy back $200 million shares in 2014 to offset the increase in shares from the exercise of employee stock options. 

The impact of movements in liquidity, debt and EBITDA in 2013 had a negative impact on the interest coverage ratio and a positive impact on the leverage ratio. Both ratios remain well within the requirements of the revolving credit facility covenants.

Debt

Total debt, total equity and the capitalization ratio at December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On July 23, 2013 we entered into an amendment to our existing credit facilities to extend both the amount of financing and the maturity date of the facilities. As a result of this amendment, our revolving credit facility was increased from $500 million to $800 million. The maturity date on both the revolving credit facility and the $300 million term loan was extended to July 23, 2018, from December 16, 2016. At the amendment date we owed $281 million on the term loan and there was no change to this amount as a result of the refinancing. 

The 7-year term loan facility expiring 2018 bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.50% and is repayable in quarterly installments and a final repayment of $186 million is due in the third quarter of 2018. In 2013, we made $15 million of mandatory repayments against this 7-year term loan. Drawings under the $800 million revolving credit facility bear interest at LIBOR plus 1.50%. These margins apply while the Company’s debt rating remains BBB-/Baa3. As of December 31, 2013 $nil was outstanding under this revolving credit facility (December 31, 2012: $nil).

On August 15, 2013 the Company issued $250 million of 4.625% senior notes due 2023 and $275 million of 6.125% senior notes due 2043. The effective interest rates of these senior notes are 4.696% and 6.154%, respectively, which include the impact of the discount upon issuance. 

On July 25, 2013 the Company commenced an offer to purchase for cash any and all of its 5.625% senior notes due 2015 and a portion of its 6.200% senior notes due 2017 and its 7.000% senior notes due 2019 for an aggregate purchase price of up to $525 million. On August 22, 2013 the proceeds from the issue of the senior notes due 2023 and 2043 were used to fund the purchase of $202 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2015, $206 million of 6.200% senior notes due 2017 and $113 million of 7.000% senior notes due 2019. 

The Company incurred total losses on extinguishment of debt of $60 million during the year ended December 31, 2013. This was made up of a tender premium of $65 million, the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs of $2 million and a credit for the reduction of the fair value adjustment on 5.625% senior notes due 2015 of $7 million.

The agreements relating to our 7-year term loan facility expiring 2018 and the revolving $800 million credit facility contain requirements to maintain maximum levels of consolidated funded indebtedness in relation to consolidated EBITDA and minimum level of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated cash interest expense, subject to certain adjustments. In addition, the agreements relating to our credit facilities and senior notes include, in the aggregate covenants relating to the delivery of financial statements, reports and notices, limitations on liens, limitations on sales and other disposals of assets, limitations on indebtedness and other liabilities, limitations on sale and leaseback transactions, limitations on mergers and other fundamental changes, maintenance of property, maintenance of insurance, nature of business, compliance with applicable laws, maintenance of corporate existence and rights, payment of taxes and access to information and properties. At December 31, 2013, the Company was in compliance with all covenants.

These refinancing actions have lengthened our debt maturity profile. At December 31, 2013, we had $nil outstanding under the $800 million facility (December 31, 2012: $nil), the UK $20 million facility (December 31, 2012: $nil) and the RMB facility 

46
Business discussion

(December 31, 2012: $nil). At December 31, 2013 the only mandatory debt repayments falling due over the next 12 months are scheduled repayments on our 7-year term loan totaling $15 million.

Pensions

UK plan

The Company made cash contributions of $88 million in 2013 (2012: $80 million) into the UK defined benefit pension plan, and $12 million (2012: $12 million) in respect of employees' salary sacrifice contributions. 

Contributions to the UK defined benefit pension plan in 2014 are expected to total $83 million, of which approximately $23 million relates to on-going contributions calculated as 15.9 percent of active plan members’ pensionable salaries and approximately $60 million relates to contributions towards funding the deficit. Additionally $12 million will be made in respect of employees' salary sacrifice contributions.

In addition, further contributions may be payable based on a profit share calculation (equal to 20 percent of EBITDA in excess of $900 million per annum as defined by the revised schedule of contributions) and an exceptional return calculation (equal to 10 percent of any exceptional returns made to shareholders, for example, share buybacks and special dividends). Aggregate contributions under the deficit funding contribution and the profit share calculation are capped at £312 million ($517 million) over the six years ended December 31, 2017. 

The schedule of contributions is automatically renegotiated after three years and at any earlier time jointly agreed by the Company and the Trustee. During 2014 we will be required to negotiate a new funding arrangement which may change the contributions we are required to make in the future.

US plan

We made cash contributions to our US defined benefit plan of $40 million in 2013 and in 2012.

We will make cash contributions of approximately $30 million to the US plan in 2014. 

Other defined benefit pension plans

We made cash contributions to our other defined benefit pension plans of $10 million in 2013 and $11 million 2012.

In 2014, we expect to contribute approximately $9 million to these schemes.

47
Willis Group Holdings plc

Cash flow

Summary consolidated cash flow information (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

This summary consolidated cash flow should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Cash Flow for 2013 compared to 2012 

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities in 2013 increased by $36 million to $561 million compared with 2012.

The $561 million cash from operations comprises net income of $377 million, net $313 million of non-cash adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities and working capital movements 

The non-cash adjustments included depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, share-based compensation, gain on derivative instruments, provision for deferred income taxes and the tender premium on early redemption of our debt, which is presented as a financing cash item.

Movements in working capital included $346 million of incentive payments and $150 million cash contributions (including $12 million for employees’ salary sacrifice) to our defined benefit pension schemes. Additionally, there was a $116 million increase in accounts receivable, as revenue recognized in 2013 was greater than cash collection, and $445 million positive movement in other liabilities which included incentives accrued during 2013 that will be paid in 2014.

The $36 million increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily driven by favorable movements in working capital versus the prior year.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities in 2013 was $120 million including, capital expenditure of $112 million, cash used to purchase subsidiaries, intangible assets and other investments of $44 million partly offset by $12 million cash received from the sale of fixed and intangible assets and $24 million of proceeds from the disposal of operations and the sale of the Company’s holding in a Spanish associate company.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities in 2013 was $137 million primarily due to total dividends paid, including dividends paid to noncontrolling interests, of $203 million, a net $72 million outflow in relation to the refinancing in the third quarter 2013, discussed below, and $15 million of mandatory repayments against the term loan offset by cash receipts of $155 million from the issue of shares. 

48
Business discussion

The refinancing during 2013 resulted in a net cash outflow of $72 million which included: $521 million cash paid to repurchase $202 million of 5.625% senior notes due 2015, $206 million of 6.200% senior notes due 2017 and $113 million of 7.000% senior notes due 2019, the tender premium of $65 million and debt issuance costs of $8 million; this was primarily funded by $522 million cash inflow from senior notes issued, discussed earlier, and free operating cash flows.

Consolidated Cash Flow for 2012 compared to 2011 

Operating Activities

Total net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $525 million in 2012, compared with $441 million in 2011. The increase of $84 million primarily reflects a $100 million reduction in cash outflows relating to the 2011 Operational Review and a higher volume of collections made on higher revenues and accounts receivable compared with 2011, partially offset by the modest decline in operating earnings, adjusted for non-cash items; and the $11 million year-on-year increase in payments for cash retention awards. 

Investing Activities

Total net cash used in continuing investing activities was $172 million in 2012 compared to $101 million in 2011. The $71 million increase in net outflow was due to higher capital spend, including; the fit-out and refurbishment of certain leasehold properties, including the completion of the European Data Center; development and implementation of a number of information technology projects including, financial systems and trading platforms; a $23 million increase in payments to acquire subsidiaries, primarily related to the acquisition of Avalon Actuarial, Inc, a Canadian actuarial consulting firm; and the non-recurrence of proceeds from the disposal of certain businesses during 2011.

Financing Activities

Total net cash used in continuing financing activities was $291 million in 2012 compared to $214 million in 2011. The $77 million increase in cash used was the result of the $100 million cash outflow relating to the repurchase of 2.8 million shares during 2012 and the $30 million year-on-year increase in payments made to acquire noncontrolling interests including, Gras Savoye Re, and our Columbian retail operation; partially offset by the reduction in repayments of debt, net of the refinancing during 2011. 

Consolidated Cash Flow for 2011 compared to 2010 

Operating Activities

Total net cash provided by continuing operating activities was $441 million in 2011 compared with $491 million in 2010. The decrease of $50 million primarily reflects the $57 million year-on-year increase in accounts receivable, reflecting increased revenue but also slower collections in the US due to current economic conditions; cash outflows of approximately $120 million relating to the 2011 Operational Review; and the $24 million year-on-year increase in payments for cash retention awards. These were partly offset by realized cash savings resulting from the 2011 Operational Review and other working capital movements.

Investing Activities

Total net cash used in continuing investing activities was $101 million in 2011 compared to $94 million in 2010. The $101 million net outflow was mainly due to capital spend including fit-out of our Nashville office and IT project investments.

Financing Activities

Total net cash used in continuing financing activities was $214 million in 2011 compared with $293 million in 2010. We issued $800 million of new debt in March 2011 and net proceeds of approximately $787 million were used to repurchase and redeem $500 million of 12.875% senior notes due 2016. As part of this debt refinancing we made a $158 million make-whole payment on the redemption of our 12.875% senior notes due 2016. Other significant financing activities in 2011 included refinancing our bank facility in December 2011, dividend payments of $180 million and receipt of $60 million from the issue of shares.

49
Willis Group Holdings plc

Own funds

As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $796 million, compared with $500 million at December 31, 2012. Additionally, $822 million was available to draw under our revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2013, compared with $520 million at December 31, 2012.

Fiduciary funds

As an intermediary, we hold funds generally in a fiduciary capacity for the account of third parties, typically as the result of premiums received from clients that are in transit to insurers and claims due to clients that are in transit from insurers. We report premiums, which are held on account of, or due from, clients as assets with a corresponding liability due to the insurers. Claims held by, or due to, us which are due to clients are also shown as both assets and liabilities. 

Fiduciary funds are generally required to be kept in certain regulated bank accounts subject to guidelines which emphasize capital preservation and liquidity; such funds are not available to service the Company’s debt or for other corporate purposes. Notwithstanding the legal relationships with clients and insurers, the Company is entitled to retain investment income earned on fiduciary funds in accordance with industry custom and practice and, in some cases, as supported by agreements with insureds. As of December 31, 2013, we had fiduciary funds of $1.7 billion, compared with $1.8 billion at December 31, 2012.

Share buybacks

The Company is authorized to buy back shares, by way of redemption, and will consider whether to do so from time to time, based on many factors, including market conditions. The Company is authorized to purchase up to one billion shares from time to time in the open market (such open market purchases would be effected as redemptions under Irish law) and it may also redeem its shares through negotiated trades with persons who are not affiliated with the Company as long as the cost of the acquisition of the Company's shares does not exceed $824 million. 

As of February 14, 2014 there remains approximately $824 million available to purchase common shares under the current authorization. 

The Company intends to buy back $200 million in shares in 2014 to offset the increase in shares outstanding resulting from the exercise of employee stock options. The buybacks will be made in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending on market conditions. 

The share buy back program may be modified, extended or terminated at any time by the Board of Directors.

Dividends

Cash dividends paid in 2013 were $193 million compared with $185 million in 2012 and $180 million in 2011. In February 2014, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per share, an annual rate of $1.20 per share, an increase of 7.1 percent over the prior 12 month period. 

50
Business discussion

REVIEW OF SEGMENTAL RESULTS

We organize our business into three segments: Global, North America and International. Our Global business provides specialist brokerage and consulting services to clients worldwide for risks arising from specific industries and activities. North America and International comprise our retail operations and provide services to small, medium and major corporations.

The following table is a summary of our operating results by segment for the three years ended December 31, 2013 (in millions except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Global

Our Global operations comprise Global Specialties, Willis Re, Placement, and Willis Capital Markets & Advisory (WCMA). 

The following table sets out revenues, operating income, organic commissions and fees growth and operating margin for the three years ended December 31, 2013 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Organic commissions and fees growth excludes: (i) the impact of foreign currency translation; (ii) the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions; and (iii) the net commission and fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each period presented.

2013 compared to 2012 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,188 million were $64 million, or 5.7 percent, higher in 2013 compared with 2012. The increase includes organic growth of 5.6 percent and 1.0 percent growth from acquisitions and disposals, most notably from the acquisition of Prime Professions in second quarter 2013, partially offset by a 0.9 percent negative impact from foreign currency movements.

The 5.6 percent organic growth in commissions and fees was driven by strong new business growth and higher client retention levels compared with the year ago period, partially offset by lost business. Rates had no material impact on commissions and fees.

Willis Re reported high single-digit growth, with North America leading the way with double-digit results. New business was strong across all three divisions and we reported increased client retention levels compared to the prior year. 

Specialty reported mid single-digit growth, with solid performance in our Financial and Executive Risk, and P&C and Construction. Growth from new business was solid and we saw increased client retention levels compared to 2012. 

51
Willis Group Holdings plc

Willis Capital Markets & Advisory performed solidly but was down compared to the very strong result it recorded in 2012 relating to meaningfully higher volumes of advisory fees and catastrophe bond deals. 

Client retention levels improved to 91.9 percent for 2013, compared with 90.3 percent for 2012. 

Expenses

Total operating expenses of $857 million were $100 million, or 13.2 percent, higher for 2013 compared with 2012. Excluding the $8 million, or 1.1 percent, impact of favorable foreign currency movements, total operating expenses increased $108 million or 14.3 percent.

The year-on-year growth in expenses was primarily due to higher salaries and benefits as a result of increased incentives

from the change in remuneration policy and growth in commissions and fees. In addition, this increase also included the impact of the increase in headcount relative to the prior year, annual salary reviews and higher charges for share-based compensation. 

Other expenses also increased compared to 2012 due to higher travel, accommodation and client entertaining costs to support business development and increased professional fees related to the strategic review of the segment.

Operating margin

Full year operating margin was 28.0 percent in 2013 and 32.9 percent in 2012. The decline was driven by the additional expenses discussed above, partially offset by solid commissions and fees growth.

2012 compared to 2011 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,124 million were $51 million, or 4.8 percent, higher in 2012 compared with 2011. Foreign exchange movements had a net 1.3 percent negative impact on commissions and fees; organic growth was 6.1 percent. 

Organic growth included positive growth across Reinsurance, Global Specialties, Willis Faber & Dumas and WCMA, as strong new business and higher one-off transactions, primarily in WCMA, were partially offset by increases in lost business.

Organic growth in Global Specialties was led by strong performances from Energy, Marine, Financial Solutions and Construction Specialties reflecting single-digit net new business. This growth was partially offset by declines in Aerospace, which continued to be negatively impacted by competitive pricing and rate decreases.

Reinsurance reported mid single-digit growth in 2012, as growth in the International, Specialty and North America divisions was partially offset by the non-recurrence of a fee related to a 2011 profitability initiative. Rates had a modest positive impact on commission and fees in the year.

Willis Faber & Dumas also reported mid-single digit growth in 2012.WCMA is a transaction-oriented business and its results are more variable than some of our other businesses. In 2012 we reported significantly higher organic commissions and fees than in 2011. Growth in the WCMA business was positively impacted by a higher volume of advisory and catastrophe bond deals closing during the year.

Client retention levels declined to 90.3 percent for 2012, compared with 91.3 percent for 2011. 

Operating margin

Operating margin was 32.9 percent in 2012 and 32.5 percent in 2011. The organic growth in commissions and fees discussed above, and lower defined benefit pension costs were offset by higher salary and benefit expense due to the impact of annual salary increases and new hires, higher production linked incentives and increases to discretionary costs.

52
Business discussion

North America

Our North America business provides risk management, insurance brokerage, related risk services and employee benefits brokerage and consulting to a wide array of industry and client segments in the United States, Canada and Mexico. 

The following table sets out revenues, operating income, organic commissions and fees growth and operating margin for the three years ended December 31, 2013 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Commissions and fees included a positive $5 million adjustment to align the recognition of revenue in the North America Personal Lines business with the rest of the Group.

(b) Other income comprises gains on disposal of intangible assets, which primarily arise from settlements through enforcing non-compete agreements in the event of losing accounts through producer defection or the disposal of books of business.

(c) Organic commissions and fees growth excludes: (i) the impact of foreign currency translation; (ii) the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions; and (iii) the net commission and fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each period presented. 

2013 compared to 2012 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,377 million were $71 million, or 5.4 percent, higher in 2013 compared with 2012. 

This increase was primarily due to organic growth of 4.9 percent and 0.6 percent positive impact from the acquisition of Avalon Actuarial, Inc. in fourth quarter 2012 partially offset by a 0.1 percent negative impact from foreign currency movements. 

Commissions and fees included a positive $5 million adjustment to align the recognition of revenue in the North America Personal Lines business with the rest of the Group. 

The 4.9 percent organic growth in commissions and fees was driven by strong new business growth and higher client retention levels compared with the year ago period, partially offset by lost business. Rates had a small positive impact on the full year's commissions and fees.

Growth was achieved across all our North America regions, led by the Metro, Midwest, Canada and CAPPPS regions. This was attributed to new business growth as well as increased client retention rates in almost all regions. 

Similarly, most of the major practice groups recorded positive growth. Our two largest practices, Human Capital and Construction, recorded mid single-digit growth and in our other practices we recorded high single-digit growth in Real Estate and low single-digit growth in Financial & Executive Risks, Healthcare and Manufacturing.

Client retention levels were 92.0 percent in 2013 compared with 90.7 percent in 2012.

Expenses

Total operating expenses of $1,117 million were $44 million or 4.1 percent, higher for 2013 compared to 2012.

The year-on-year growth is primarily due to higher salaries and benefits most notably as a result of annual salary reviews. Salaries and benefits were also impacted by a higher incentives charge as a result of higher commissions and fees and the 

53
Willis Group Holdings plc

change in remuneration policy, and additional 401(k) match and medical charges, partially offset by lower charges for share-based compensation and pensions.

In addition, there was an increase in other expenses due to a $6 million write-off of a receivable related to a non-E&O settlement, professional fees related to the strategic review of the segment, and higher travel and accommodation expense to support revenue growth and client retention, partially offset by a $4 million insurance premium accrual reversal. 

Foreign currency movements had no material impact on expenses.

Operating margin

Operating margin in North America was 19.4 percent in 2013 compared with 18.3 percent in 2012 driven by solid commissions and fees growth.

2012 compared to 2011 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,306 million were $8 million, or 0.6 percent, lower in 2012 compared with 2011. 

Organic commissions and fees growth declined 0.6 percent in 2012 compared with 2011, whilst new business levels were higher than in 2011, resulting in growth in certain regions and business segments. These were more than offset by lower Loan Protector revenues and the impact of the weakened economy. 

The decline in the financial performance of our Loan Protector business had a 0.8 percent negative impact on North America organic growth in commissions and fees and negatively impacted the segment's revenue by $10 million. The Loan Protector decline was driven by the loss of clients through attrition and M&A activity, industry-wide commission pressures and a slowdown in business in its specialized market in the US in 2011.

Client retention levels were 90.7 percent in 2012 compared with 91.5 percent in 2011.

Operating margin

Operating margin in North America was 18.3 percent in 2012 compared with 20.5 percent in 2011, reflecting the adverse impact from the 0.6 percent decline in organic commissions and fees growth discussed above, a $4 million reduction in investment income due to declining yields, and increases to incentive expenses, production linked awards and share-based compensation. These were partly offset by a reduction to other expenses, including lower premises costs and a reduction in E&O provisions.

54
Business discussion

International

Our International business comprises our retail operations in Western Europe, Central and Eastern Europe, the United Kingdom, Asia, Australasia, the Middle East, South Africa and Latin America. The services provided are focused according to the characteristics of each market and vary across offices, but generally include direct risk management and insurance brokerage and employee benefits consulting.

The following table sets out revenues, operating income, organic commissions and fees growth and operating margin for the three years ended December 31, 2013 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a) Commissions and fees in 2013 included a negative $15 million adjustment to align the recognition of revenue in China with the rest of the Group.

(b) Organic commissions and fees growth excludes: (i) the impact of foreign currency translation; (ii) the first twelve months of net commission and fee revenues generated from acquisitions; and (iii) the net commission and fee revenues related to operations disposed of in each period presented.

2013 compared to 2012 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,068 million were $40 million, or 3.9 percent, higher in 2013 compared with 2012. Organic commissions and fees growth was 4.1 percent partially offset by 0.2 percent negative impact from foreign currency movements. 

Organic growth included double-digit new business growth partly offset by lost business. Rates had no significant impact on commissions and fees.

Commissions and fees included the negative impact of a $15 million adjustment to align the recognition of revenue in China with the rest of the Group. 

Latin America reported double-digit growth arising primarily from Brazil and Venezuela which was partially offset by a double-digit decline in Colombia.

Asia reported low-single digit growth. We recorded good growth throughout the region especially in Hong Kong and Korea, however the negative $15 million revenue recognition adjustment partially offset these results. 

Eastern Europe reported high single-digit growth arising primarily from Russia tempered by a mid-single digit decline in Poland.

Western Europe reported low single-digit growth. Despite difficult economic conditions, Italy and Iberia produced mid-single digit growth partially offset by mid single-digit declines in Ireland and the Netherlands.

The UK reported a low single-digit decline amid a challenging economic environment.

Client retention rates were largely flat at 93.1 percent for 2013 compared to 93.3 percent for 2012.

Expenses

Total operating expenses of $897 million were $42 million, or 4.9 percent, higher for 2013 compared with 2012. Foreign currency movements favorably impacted operating expenses by $12 million or 1.4 percent; excluding the impact of foreign currency movements total operating expenses increased $54 million or 6.3 percent. 

55
Willis Group Holdings plc

This increase was due primarily to higher salaries and benefits as a result of new hires, annual salary reviews, higher incentives due to the change in remuneration policy and an increased charge for share-based compensation. 

In addition to this, we incurred professional fees related to the strategic review of the segment, higher travel and accommodation expense to support business development, and a $5 million VAT related charge. These charges were partially offset by a reduced bad debt expense and non-recurring 2012 legal claims settlements.

Operating margin

Operating margin in International was 16.8 percent in 2013, compared with 17.6 percent in 2012. The decline was driven by the increase in expenses discussed above partially offset by solid commissions and fees growth.

2012 compared to 2011 

Revenues

Commissions and fees of $1,028 million were $1 million, or 0.1 percent, higher in 2012 compared with 2011. Organic commissions and fees growth of 4.9 percent was partially offset by negative foreign exchange movements of 4.8 percent. Organic growth included double digit new business growth, partly offset by slight increases to lost business. Rates and other market factors had no significant impact on commissions and fees in the year.

Despite the ongoing economic difficulties faced by the Eurozone, our large retail operations in the region delivered low single-digit growth in 2012, driven by strong growth in Germany, Sweden and Denmark, although this growth was partially offset by declines in Ireland and Norway.

Our Latin American operation delivered high double-digit growth in 2012, the result of significant new business growth; principally in Brazil, Venezuela and Argentina.

Asia reported high single-digit growth in 2012 led by strong growth in Japan, China and Korea.

Organic growth in our UK retail operation was flat in 2012, compared with 2011, this reflects a stabilization of the business in the region following a 2.3 percent decline in 2011.

A significant part of International's revenues are earned in currencies other than the US dollar, most notably the euro and the Australian dollar. The net 4.8 percent negative impact from foreign currency translation in 2012 primarily reflected the weakening of the US dollar against these and other currencies in which we earn International revenues.

Client retention levels decreased to 93.3 percent for 2012, compared with 93.7 percent for 2011. 

Operating margin

Operating margin in International was 17.6 percent in 2012, compared with 21.2 percent in 2011. The decrease primarily reflected significant increases in salaries and benefits as a result of new hires supporting growth in targeted geographies, annual pay increases, the negative impact of foreign exchange on revenues and increases to certain provisions including bad debts. These were partly offset by the benefit from organic commissions and fees discussed above.

56
Business discussion

Corporate and Other

The Company evaluates the performance of its segments based on organic commissions and fees growth and operating income. For internal reporting and segmental reporting, items for which segmental management are not held responsible for are held within ‘Corporate and Other’.

Corporate and Other comprises the following (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Additional incentive accrual recognized following the replacement of annual cash retention awards with annual cash bonuses which do not feature a repayment requirement.

(b) Write-off of unamortized cash retention awards following the decision to eliminate the repayment requirement on past awards.

(c) Non-cash charge recognized related to the impairment of the carrying value of the North America reporting unit's goodwill.

(d) $11 million settlement with former partners related to the termination of a joint venture arrangement in India. In addition, a $1 million loss on disposal of operations was recorded related to the termination.

(e) Insurance recovery, recorded in Other operating expenses, related to a previously disclosed fraudulent activity in Chicago. See 'Correction of Commissions and Fees Overstatement Relating to 2011 and Prior Periods' discussed above.

(f) Write-off of uncollectible accounts receivable balance relating to periods prior to January 1, 2011, see 'Correction of Commissions and Fees Overstatement Relating to 2011 and Prior Periods' discussed above.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

57
Willis Group Holdings plc

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Our accounting policies are described in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management considers that the following accounting estimates or assumptions are the most important to the presentation of our financial condition or operating performance:

•pension expense (discount rates, expected asset returns and mortality);

•intangible assets and goodwill impairment (determination of reporting units, fair value of reporting units and annual goodwill impairment analysis);

•income taxes; and

•commitments, contingencies and accrued liabilities.

Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated disclosures with our Audit Committee.

Pension expense

We maintain defined benefit pension plans for employees in the US and UK. Both of these plans are now closed to new entrants and, with effect from May 15, 2009 we closed our US defined benefit plan to future accrual. New employees in the UK are offered the opportunity to join a defined contribution plan and in the US are offered the opportunity to join a 401(k) plan. We also have smaller defined benefit plans in Ireland, Germany, Norway and the Netherlands, a non-qualified plan in the US and an unfunded plan in the UK. These smaller defined benefit plans have combined total assets of $168 million and a combined net liability for pension benefits of $27 million as of December 31, 2013. Elsewhere, pension benefits are typically provided through defined contribution plans.

We recorded a $5 million and a $4 million net periodic benefit income on our UK and US defined benefit pension scheme respectively in 2013, compared with a net periodic benefit income of $5 million on the UK scheme and a net periodic benefit cost of $3 million on the US scheme in 2012. On our international defined benefit pension plans, US non-qualified plan and UK unfunded plan, we recorded a net periodic benefit cost of $5 million in 2013, compared with $4 million in 2012.

Based on December 31, 2013 assumptions (except for one update - the expected rate of return in the UK pension plan changed from 7.25% to 7.00%), we expect the net pension credit in 2014 will increase $7 million for the UK plan. The net pension credit will increase by $4 million for the US plan and the net pension charge will decrease by $1 million for the other plans.

We make a number of assumptions when determining our pension liabilities and pension expense which are reviewed annually by senior management and changed where appropriate. The discount rate will be changed annually if underlying rates have moved whereas the expected long-term return on assets will be changed less frequently as longer term trends in asset returns emerge or long term target asset allocations are revised. Other material assumptions include rates of participant mortality, the expected long-term rate of compensation and pension increases and rates of employee termination. Our approach to determining appropriate assumptions for our UK and US pension plans is set out below.

UK plan

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) Except for the expected rate of return updated to 7%.

(b) With all other assumptions held constant.

(c) Assumes all plan participants are one year younger.

58
Business discussion

Discount rate

During 2013 we continued to use a duration-based approach, which more closely matches the actual timing of expected cash flows to the applicable discount rate. The selected rate used to discount UK plan liabilities in 2013 was 4.40% consistent with the 4.40% used at December 31, 2012. During 2013, sterling high-quality corporate bond yields had risen slightly at shorter to median durations but fallen at longer durations however, the rate consistent with expected maturity of the plan's liabilities was unchanged.

Expected and actual asset returns

Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets are developed from the expected future returns of the various asset classes using the target asset allocations. The expected long-term rate of return used for determining the net UK pension expense in 2013 was 7.25% (2012: 7.50%), equivalent to an expected return in 2013 of $191 million (2012: $181 million). Effective January 1, 2014, the expected long-term rate of return was decreased to 7.00%. The decrease in the expected long-term rate of return followed a change in the underlying target asset mix, which reflects the actions taken during 2013 in accordance with the de-risking strategy proposed by the Trustees which will lead to a strategic target asset allocation with a greater weighting to non-return seeking assets.

The expected and actual returns on UK plan assets for the three years ended December 31, 2013 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mortality

The mortality assumption used during 2013 is the 90/105% PNA00 table for males and females, and is unchanged from the assumptions used during 2012.

As an indication of the longevity assumed, our calculations assume that a UK male retiree aged 65 at December 31, 2013 would have a life expectancy of 24 years.

US plan

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________

(a) With all other assumptions held constant.

(b) Assumes all plan participants are one year younger.

Discount rate

The discount rate at December 31, 2013 was 4.76%, an increase of 69 basis points from the discount rate of 4.07% at December 31, 2012. The increase in the discount rate reflects the increase in high-quality corporate bond yields during 2013. 

The impact of the higher discount rate in 2013 decreased the projected benefit obligation by approximately $86 million.

59
Willis Group Holdings plc

Expected and actual asset returns

The expected long-term rate of return used for determining the net US pension scheme expense in 2013 was 7.25% (2012: 7.25%) 

The expected and actual returns on US plan assets for the three years ended December 31, 2013 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mortality

The mortality assumption at December 31, 2013 is the RP-2000 Mortality Table (blended for annuitants and non-annuitants), projected by Scale AA to 2021 for annuitants and 2029 for non-annuitants (December 31, 2012: RP-2000 Mortality Table (blended for annuitants and non-annuitants), projected by Scale AA to 2020 for annuitants and 2028 for non-annuitants).

As an indication of the longevity assumed, our calculations assume that a US male retiree aged 65 at December 31, 2013, would have a life expectancy of 19 years.

Intangible assets

Intangible assets represent the excess of cost over the value of net tangible assets of businesses acquired. We classify our intangible assets into three categories;

•Goodwill;

•‘Customer and Marketing Related’ which includes client lists, client relationships, trade names and non-compete agreements; and

•‘Contract-based, Technology and Other’ which includes all other purchased intangible assets.

Client relationships acquired on the HRH acquisition are amortized over twenty years in line with the pattern in which the economic benefits of the client relationships are expected to be consumed. Over 80% of the client relationships intangible will have been amortized after 10 years. Non-compete agreements acquired in connection with the HRH acquisition were amortized over two years on a straight line basis. Intangible assets acquired in connection with other acquisitions are amortized over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis. Goodwill is not subject to amortization.

We review purchased intangible assets with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these intangible assets is assessed based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the continued use of the asset. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amount, the purchased intangible assets with finite lives are considered to be impaired. The amount of the impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value.

Goodwill impairment review

We test goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred.

The goodwill impairment test is a two step analysis. Step One requires the fair value of each reporting unit to be compared to its carrying value. If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be greater than the carrying value of the reporting unit, goodwill is not considered impaired and no further testing is necessary. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, we perform Step Two. Step Two requires the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill to be compared with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Determining the implied fair value of goodwill requires a valuation of the reporting unit’s tangible and intangible assets and liabilities in a manner similar to the allocation of the purchase price in a business combination. Any excess of the value of a reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities is referred to as the implied fair value of goodwill. If the carrying amount of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.

60
Business discussion

Application of the impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units and determination of fair value of each reporting unit.

Determination of reporting units

We have determined our reporting units to be consistent with our operating segments: North America; International and Global. Goodwill is allocated to these reporting units based on the original purchase price allocation for acquisitions within the reporting units.

Fair value of reporting units

The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology and, in aggregate, validated against our market capitalization.

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include estimations of future cash flows which are dependent on internal forecasts, long-term rate of growth for our business and determination of our weighted average cost of capital.

We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Therefore changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and result in goodwill impairment.

In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units.

Annual goodwill impairment analysis

Our annual goodwill impairment analysis is performed each year at October 1. At October 1, 2013 our analysis showed the estimate fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of carrying value, and therefore did not result in an impairment charge.

The goodwill impairment analysis as of October 1, 2012 concluded that an impairment charge was required to reduce the carrying value of the goodwill associated with the Company's North America reporting unit. The goodwill impairment charge for the North America reporting unit amounted to $492 million. There was no impairment for the Global and International reporting units, as the fair values of these units were significantly in excess of their carrying value.

Under the income approach, the fair value of the North America reporting unit was determined based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The fair value measurements used unobservable inputs in a discounted cash flow model based on the Company's most recent forecasts. Such projections were based on management's estimates of revenue growth rates and operating margins, taking into consideration industry and market conditions, and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit's ability to execute on the projected cash flows with consideration of market comparables where appropriate. The discount rate was based on the weighted-average cost of capital adjusted for the relevant risk associated with market participant expectations of characteristics of the individual reporting units.

As the fair value of the reporting unit was less than its carrying value, the second step of the impairment test was performed to measure the amount of any impairment loss. In the second step, the North America reporting unit's fair value was allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets. The fair value of intangible assets associated with the North America reporting unit included customer relationship intangible assets, which were valued using a multiple period excess earnings approach involving discounted future projections of associated revenue streams.

The decline in the fair value of the North America reporting unit, as well as differences between fair values and carrying values for other assets and liabilities in the second step of the goodwill impairment test, resulted in an implied fair value of goodwill substantially below the carrying value of the goodwill for the reporting unit. As a result, the Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $492 million in 2012. 

As previously disclosed, the North America reporting unit had been hampered by the declining Loan Protector business results, the effect of the soft economy in the U.S., which had significantly impacted the Construction and Human Capital sectors, and declining retention rates primarily related to M&A activity and lost legacy HRH business.

The decline in the estimated fair value of the reporting unit resulted from lower projected revenue growth rates and profitability levels as well as an increase in the discount rate used to calculate the discounted cash flows. The increase in the discount rate was due to increases in the risk-free rate and small company premium offset by a reduction to the expected market rate of 

61
Willis Group Holdings plc

return. The lower projected profitability levels reflect changes in assumptions related to organic revenue growth and cost rates which can be attributed to the declines discussed above and also includes consideration of the uncertainty related to the business's ability to execute on the projected cash flows.

Income taxes

We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the estimated future tax consequences of events attributable to differences between the financial statements carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating and capital loss and tax credit carry-forwards. We estimate deferred tax assets and liabilities and assess the need for any valuation allowances using tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to be recovered or settled taking into account our business plans and tax planning strategies.

At December 31, 2013, we had gross deferred tax assets of $383 million (2012: $451 million) against which a valuation allowance of $196 million (2012: $221 million) had been recognized. To the extent that:

•the actual future taxable income in the periods during which the temporary differences are expected to reverse differs from current projections;

•assumed prudent and feasible tax planning strategies fail to materialize;

•new tax planning strategies are developed; or

•material changes occur in actual tax rates or loss carry-forward time limits,

we may adjust the deferred tax asset considered realizable in future periods. Such adjustments could result in a significant increase or decrease in the effective tax rate and have a material impact on our net income.

Positions taken in our tax returns may be subject to challenge by the taxing authorities upon examination. We recognize the benefit of uncertain tax positions in the financial statements when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on examination by the tax authorities. The benefit recognized is the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized on settlement with the tax authority, assuming full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts. The Company adjusts its recognition of these uncertain tax benefits in the period in which new information is available impacting either the recognition or measurement of its uncertain tax positions. In 2013, there was a net increase in uncertain tax positions of $4 million compared to a net increase of $21 million in 2012. The Company recognizes interest relating to unrecognized tax benefits and penalties within income taxes. Accrued interest and penalties are included within the related tax liability line in the consolidated balance sheet.

Commitments, contingencies and accrued liabilities

We purchase professional indemnity insurance for errors and omissions claims. The terms of this insurance vary by policy year and self-insured risks have increased significantly over recent years. We have established provisions against various actual and potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance and reinsurance in the ordinary course of business. Such provisions cover claims that have been reported but not paid and also claims that have been incurred but not reported. These provisions are established based on actuarial estimates together with individual case reviews and are believed to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice.

62
Business discussion

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

The Company’s contractual obligations as at December 31, 2013 are presented below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(a) Presented gross of sublease income.

(b) Other contractual obligations include capital lease commitments, put option obligations and investment fund capital call obligations, the timing of which are included at the earliest point they may fall due.

(c) The above excludes $41 million for liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits as we are unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities.

Debt obligations and facilities

The Company’s debt and related interest obligations at December 31, 2013 are shown in the above table.

On July 23, 2013 we entered into an amendment to our existing credit facilities to extend the amount of financing of the facilities. As a result of this amendment, our revolving credit facility was increased from $500 million to $800 million. As at December 31, 2013 $nil was outstanding under the revolving credit facility.

This facility is in addition to the remaining availability of $22 million under the Company’s two other previously existing revolving credit facilities. 

The only mandatory repayments of debt over the next 12 months are the scheduled repayment of $15 million current portion of the Company’s 7-year term loan. We also have the right, at our option, to prepay indebtedness under the credit facility without further penalty and to redeem the senior notes at our option by paying a ‘make-whole’ premium as provided under the applicable debt instrument.

Operating leases

The Company leases certain land, buildings and equipment under various operating lease arrangements. Original non-cancellable lease terms typically are between 10 and 20 years and may contain escalation clauses, along with options that permit early withdrawal. The total amount of the minimum rent is expensed on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.

63
Willis Group Holdings plc

As of December 31, 2013, the aggregate future minimum rental commitments under all non-cancellable operating lease agreements are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company leases its main London building under a 25-year operating lease, which expires in 2032. The Company’s contractual obligations in relation to this commitment included in the table above total $719 million (2012: $730 million). Annual rentals are $36 million (2012: $32 million) per year and the Company has subleased approximately 29 percent (2012: 29 percent) of the premises under leases up to 15 years. The amounts receivable from subleases, included in the table above, total $66 million (2012: $76 million; 2011: $82 million).

Rent expense amounted to $141 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 (2012: $135 million; 2011: $127 million). The Company’s rental income from subleases was $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 (2012: $17 million; 2011: $18 million).

Pensions

Contractual obligations for our pension plans reflect the contributions we expect to make over the next five years into our US and UK, plans. These contributions are based on current funding positions and may increase or decrease dependent on the future performance of the two plans.

UK plan

During 2013, the Company made cash contributions to the UK defined benefit pension plan of $88 million (2012: $80 million; 2011: $81 million), additionally $12 million (2012: $12 million; 2011: $11 million) was paid into the plan in respect of employees' salary sacrifice contributions.

In March 2012, the Company agreed to a revised schedule of contributions towards on-going accrual of benefits and deficit funding contributions the Company will make to the UK plan over the six years ended December 31, 2017. Contributions in each of the next four years are expected to total approximately $83 million, of which approximately $23 million relates to on-going contributions calculated as 15.9 percent of active plan members' pensionable salary and approximately $60 million that relates to contributions towards the funding deficit.

In addition, further contributions will be payable based on a profit share calculation (equal to 20 percent of EBITDA in excess of $900 million per annum as defined by the revised schedule of contributions) and an exceptional return calculation (equal to 10 percent of any exceptional returns made to shareholders, for example, share buybacks, and special dividends). Upon finalization of these calculations the Company made a further contribution in 2013 of $10 million, calculated as 10 percent of the $100 million share buy-back program completed during 2012. Aggregate contributions under the deficit funding contribution and the profit share calculation are capped at £312 million ($517 million) over the six years ended December 31, 2017.

The schedule of contributions is automatically renegotiated after three years and at any earlier time jointly agreed by the Company and the Trustee. During 2014 we will be required to negotiate a new funding arrangement which may further change the contributions we are required to make in the future.

US plan

We made total cash contributions to our US defined benefit pension plan of $40 million in 2013, compared with $40 million in 2012 and $30 million in 2011.

64
Business discussion

We expect to make contributions of approximately $30 million in 2014 through 2019.

Other defined benefit pension plans

We made total cash contributions to our other defined benefit pension plans of $10 million in 2013, compared with $11 million in 2012 and 13 million in 2011.

In 2014, we expect to contribute approximately $9 million to our international plans.

The final 2014 contribution for all plans is expected to be approximately $122 million, excluding salary sacrifice which compares to an equivalent 2013 total contribution of $138 million.

Guarantees

Guarantees issued by certain of Willis Group Holdings’ subsidiaries with respect to the senior notes and revolving credit facilities are discussed in Note 20 — 'Debt' in these consolidated financial statements.

Certain of Willis Group Holdings’ subsidiaries have given the landlords of some leasehold properties occupied by the Company in the United Kingdom and the United States guarantees in respect of the performance of the lease obligations of the subsidiary holding the lease. The operating lease obligations subject to such guarantees amounted to $828 million and $829 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The capital lease obligations subject to such guarantees amounted to $11 million as at December 31, 2013 (2012: $nil).

In addition, the Company has given guarantees to bankers and other third parties relating principally to letters of credit amounting to $11 million and $10 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Willis Group Holdings also guarantees certain of its UK and Irish subsidiaries’ obligations to fund the UK and Irish defined benefit plans.

Other Contractual Obligations

For certain subsidiaries and associates, the Company has the right to purchase shares (a call option) from co-shareholders at various dates in the future. In addition, the co-shareholders of certain subsidiaries and associates have the right to sell their shares (a put option) to the Company at various dates in the future. Generally, the exercise price of such put options and call options is formula-based (using revenues and earnings) and is designed to reflect fair value. Based on current projections of profitability and exchange rates and assuming the put options are exercised, the potential amount payable from these options is not expected to exceed $12 million (2012: $19 million).

In July 2010, the Company made a capital commitment of $25 million to Trident V Parallel Fund, LP, an investment fund managed by Stone Point Capital. This replaced a capital commitment of $25 million that had been made to Trident V, LP in December 2009. As at December 31, 2013 there have been approximately $15 million of capital contributions.

In May 2011, the Company made a capital commitment of $10 million to Dowling Capital Partners I, LP. As at December 31, 2013 there have been approximately $4 million of capital contributions.

Other contractual obligations at December 31, 2013, also include certain capital lease obligations totaling $63 million (2012: $53 million), primarily in respect of the Company's Nashville property.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Other Comprehensive Income

In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income to revise the manner in which entities present comprehensive income in their financial statements. These changes require that components of comprehensive income be presented in either a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The amendments do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income.This guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and has been applied retrospectively.

65
Willis Group Holdings plc

ASU No. 2011-05 also requires entities to present on the face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-12 in order to defer those changes in ASU No. 2011-05 that relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments. In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-02, Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive (ASU 2013-02). This guidance is the culmination of the FASB's deliberation on reporting reclassification adjustments from accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). The amendments in ASU 2013-02 do not change the current requirements for reporting net income or other comprehensive income but do require disclosure of amounts reclassified out of AOCI in its entirety, by component, on the face of the statement of operations or in the notes thereto. Amounts that are not required to be reclassified in their entirety to net income must be cross-referenced to other disclosures that provide additional detail. This guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2012 and has been applied retrospectively.

Presentation of Unrecognized Tax Benefits

In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force. The ASU does not affect the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions under US GAAP.

However, under the ASU, unrecognized tax benefits, or portions of unrecognised tax benefits, must be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to deferred tax assets when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss or a tax credit carryforward exists except when:

•a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss or a tax credit carryfoward is not available at the reporting date under the governing tax laws to settle taxes that would result from the disallowance of the tax position; or

•the entity does not intend to use the deferred tax asset for this purpose, provided that the tax law permits a choice.

If either of these conditions exists, an entity should present an unrecognized tax benefit in the financial statements as a liability and should not net the unrecognized tax benefit with a deferred tax asset.

The amendments under the ASU:

•are effective prospectively for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2013 although early adoption is permitted; and

•should be applied to all unrecognized tax benefits that exist as of the effective date although entities may choose to apply the amendments retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented.

The Company has decided to not adopt this guidance early. However, as an indication of the likely balance sheet reclassification based on the position at December 31, 2013, the Company had recognized $22 million of unrecognized tax benefits within Other non-current liabilities that would be reclassified to Non-current deferred tax assets. The Company has not yet determined whether it will apply the amendments to the prior reporting period for its first quarter 2014 reporting.

Other than the changes described above, there were no new accounting standards issued during 2013 that would impact on the Company’s reporting.

OFF BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS

Apart from commitments, guarantees and contingencies, as disclosed in Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

66
Market risk

Item 7A —Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk