Item 7A —Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Financial Risk Management

We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we enter into a variety of interest rate and foreign currency derivatives. We do not hold financial or derivative instruments for trading purposes.

A discussion of our accounting policies for financial and derivative instruments is included in Note 2 — 'Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies' of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and further disclosure is provided in Note 26 — 'Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities'.

Foreign Exchange Risk Management

Because of the large number of countries and currencies we operate in, movements in currency exchange rates may affect our results.

We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars. Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in US dollars. Outside the United States, we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in the local currency with the exception of our London market operations which earns revenues in several currencies but incurs expenses predominantly in pounds sterling.

The table below gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency in 2013.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our principal exposures to foreign exchange risk arise from:

•our London market operations; and

•translation.

London market operations

In our London market operations, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, principally US dollars, pounds sterling, Euros and Japanese yen, but incur expenses almost entirely in pounds sterling.

We hedge this risk as follows:

•to the extent that forecast pounds sterling expenses exceed pound sterling revenues, we limit our exposure to this exchange rate risk by the use of forward contracts matched to specific, clearly identified cash outflows arising in the ordinary course of business; and

•to the extent our London market operations earn significant revenues in Euros and Japanese yen, we limit our exposure to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and these currencies by the use of forward contracts matched to a percentage of forecast cash inflows in specific currencies and periods. In addition, we are also exposed to foreign exchange risk on any net sterling asset or liability position in our London market operations.

However, where the foreign exchange risk relates to any sterling pension assets benefit or liability for pensions benefit, we do not hedge the risk. Consequently, if our London market operations have a significant pension asset or liability, we may be exposed to accounting gains and losses if the US dollar and pounds sterling exchange rate changes. We do, however, hedge the pounds sterling contributions into the pension plan.

Translation risk

Outside our US and London market operations, we predominantly earn revenues and incur expenses in the local currency. When we translate the results and net assets of these operations into US dollars for reporting purposes, movements in exchange rates will affect reported results and net assets. For example, if the US dollar strengthens against the Euro, the reported results of our Eurozone operations in US dollar terms will be lower.

67
Willis Group Holdings plc

With the exception of foreign currency hedges for certain intercompany loans, that are not designated as hedging instruments, we do not hedge translation risk.

The table below provides information about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which are sensitive to exchange rate risk. The table summarizes the US dollar equivalent amounts of each currency bought and sold forward and the weighted average contractual exchange rates. All forward exchange contracts mature within three years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income earned within foreign subsidiaries outside of the UK is generally offset by expenses in the same local currency but the Company does have exposure to foreign exchange movements on the net income of these entities. 

Interest rate risk management

Our operations are financed principally by $2,054 million fixed rate senior notes issued by the Group and $274 million under a 7-year term loan facility. Of the fixed rate senior notes, $148 million are due 2015, $300 million are due 2016, $394 million are due 2017, $187 million are due 2019, $500 million are due 2021, $250 million are due 2023, and $275 million are due 2043. The 7-year term loan facility is repayable in quarterly installments and a final repayment of $186 million is due in the second quarter of 2018. As of December 31, 2013 we had access to $822 million under three revolving credit facilities and, as at this date, no amount was outstanding under those facilities. The interest rate applicable to the bank borrowing is variable according to the period of each individual drawdown.

We are also subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on our investing activities where our primary interest rate risk arises from changes in short-term interest rates in both US dollars and pounds sterling.

68
Market risk

As a result of our operating activities, we receive cash for premiums and claims which we deposit in short-term investments denominated in US dollars and other currencies. We earn interest on these funds, which is included in our consolidated financial statements as investment income. These funds are regulated in terms of access and the instruments in which they may be invested, most of which are short-term in maturity. In order to manage interest rate risk arising from these financial assets, we entered into interest rate swaps to receive a fixed rate of interest and pay a variable rate of interest in the various currencies related to the short-term investments. The use of interest rate contracts essentially converted groups of short-term variable rate investments to fixed rates. However, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we stopped renewing hedged positions on their maturity given the flat yield curve environment. Further to this, during second quarter 2012, the Company closed out its legacy position for these interest rate swap contracts.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company entered into a series of interest rate swaps for a total notional amount of $350 million to receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate on a semi-annual basis, with a maturity date of July 15, 2015. The Company had previously designated these instruments as fair value hedges against its $350 million 5.625% senior notes due 2015 and had accounted for them accordingly until the first quarter of 2013 at which point these swaps, although remaining as economic hedges, no longer qualified for hedge accounting. During the three months ended September 30, 2013 the Company closed out the above interest rate swaps and received a cash settlement of $13 million on termination.

The table below provides information about our derivative instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional principal amounts and average interest rates analyzed by expected maturity dates. Notional principal amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contracts. The duration of interest rate swaps varied between one and five years, with re-fixing periods of three to six months. Average fixed and variable rates are, respectively, the weighted-average actual and market rates for the interest rate hedges in place. Market rates are the rates prevailing at December 31, 2013 or 2012, as appropriate.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

_________________

(i) Represents the net present value of the expected cash flows discounted at current market rates of interest or quoted market rates as appropriate.

69
Willis Group Holdings plc

Liquidity Risk

Our objective is to ensure we have the ability to generate sufficient cash either from internal or external sources, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to meet our commitments as they fall due. Our management of liquidity risk is embedded within our overall risk management framework. Scenario analysis is continually undertaken to ensure that our resources can meet our liquidity requirements. These resources are supplemented by access to $822 million under three revolving credit facilities. We undertake short-term foreign exchange swaps for liquidity purposes.

See ‘Liquidity and Capital Resources’ section under Item 7, 'Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations'.

Credit Risk and Concentrations of Credit Risk

Credit risk represents the loss that would be recognized at the reporting date if counterparties failed to perform as contracted and from movements in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. The Company currently does not anticipate non-performance by its counterparties. The Company generally does not require collateral or other security to support financial instruments with credit risk; however, it is the Company's policy to enter into master netting arrangements with counterparties as practical.

Concentrations of credit risk that arise from financial instruments exist for groups of customers or counterparties when they have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions. Financial instruments on the balance sheet that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and derivatives which are recorded at fair value.

The Company maintains a policy providing for the diversification of cash and cash equivalent investments and places such investments in an extensive number of financial institutions to limit the amount of credit risk exposure. These financial institutions are monitored on an ongoing basis for credit quality predominantly using information provided by credit agencies.

Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of clients and markets in which the Company does business, as well as the dispersion across many geographic areas. Management does not believe significant risk exists in connection with the Company's concentrations of credit as of December 31, 2013.

70
Financial statements

Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data