Item 1A - Risk Factors

Risks Relating to our Business and the Insurance Industry

This section describes material risks affecting the Group’s business. These risks could materially affect the Group’s business, its revenues, operating income, net income, net assets, liquidity and capital resources and ability to achieve its financial targets and, accordingly should be read in conjunction with any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competitive Risks

Worldwide economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.

Our business and operating results are materially affected by worldwide economic conditions. Current global economic conditions, including those associated with the ongoing Eurozone crisis, coupled with low customer and business confidence may have a significant negative impact on the buying behavior of some of our clients as their businesses suffer from these conditions. Since 2008, many of our operations have been impacted by the weakened economic climate. A growing number of insolvencies associated with an economic downturn could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. In addition, an increase in mergers and acquisitions can also result in the loss of clients. While it is difficult to predict the consequences of any further deterioration in global economic conditions on our business, any significant reduction or delay by our clients in purchasing insurance or making payment of premiums could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the potential for a significant insurer to fail, be downgraded or withdraw from writing certain lines of insurance coverages that we offer our clients could negatively impact overall capacity in the industry, which could then reduce the placement of certain lines and types of insurance and reduce our revenues and profitability. The potential for an insurer to fail or be downgraded could also result in errors and omissions claims by clients.

The credit and economic conditions of certain European Union countries remain fragile and may contribute to instability in the global credit and financial markets. If credit conditions worsen or financial market volatility increases in the Eurozone, it is possible that it could have a negative effect on the global economy as a whole, and our business, operating results and financial condition. If the Eurozone crisis continues or further deteriorates, there will likely be a negative effect on our European business, as well as the businesses of our European clients. Further, were the Euro to be withdrawn entirely, or the Eurozone were to be dissolved as a common currency area, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of Euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. A significant devaluation of the Euro would cause the value of our financial assets that are denominated in Euros to be significantly reduced. Any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.

We may not be able to fully realize the anticipated benefits of our new growth strategy. 

At our 2013 Investor Conference, we stated that our goal is, over a medium-term period of five years, to deliver mid-teens total shareholder return, deliver consistent revenue growth in the mid-single digits and target revenue growth to outpace expense growth by more than 70 basis points. We emphasized that such results could fluctuate on a quarterly basis.

In order to achieve these goals, we are implementing certain revenue growth strategies and continue to strive to manage our cost base. For example, we announced a series of actions that include, among other things, the appointments of new global industry and product heads, the creation of a new Global Human Capital & Benefits Practice, a geographic realignment of the firm’s leadership team in North America and the merger of our UK retail and Global Specialty businesses. In light of the potential operational risks associated with these new initiatives, we cannot be certain whether we will be able to realize benefits from current revenue generating or cost-saving initiatives and ultimately realize our objectives. There can be no assurance that our actual results will meet these financial goals.

We do not control the premiums on which our commissions are based, and volatility or declines in premiums may seriously undermine our profitability.

We derive most of our revenues from commissions and fees for brokerage and consulting services and do not determine the insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Commission levels generally follow the same trend as premium levels, as they are a percentage of the premiums paid by the insureds. Fluctuations in the premiums charged by the insurance carriers can therefore have a direct and potentially material impact on our results of operations. Due to the cyclical 

15
Willis Group Holdings plc

nature of the insurance market and the impact of other market conditions on insurance premiums, commission levels may vary widely between accounting periods. A period of low or declining premium rates, generally known as a 'soft' or 'softening' market, generally leads to downward pressure on commission revenues and can have a material adverse impact on our commission revenues and operating margin. A 'hard' or 'firming' market, during which premium rates rise, generally has a favorable impact on our commission revenues and operating margin. Rates, however, vary by geography, industry and client segment. We have been and continue to be negatively impacted by soft market conditions across certain sectors and geographic regions. In addition, insurance carriers may seek to reduce their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to insurance agents or brokers such as ourselves. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly undermine our profitability.

Competition in our industry is intense, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may suffer lower revenue, reduced operating margins and lose market share which could materially and adversely affect our business.

We face competition in all fields in which we operate, based on global capability, product breadth, innovation, quality of service and price. We compete with Marsh & McLennan and Aon, the two major global providers of global risk management services, as well as with numerous specialist, regional and local firms. Competition for business is intense in all of our business lines and in every insurance market, and Marsh & McLennan and Aon have substantially greater market share than we do. Competition on premium rates has also exacerbated the pressures caused by a continuing reduction in demand in some classes of business. For example, rather than purchase additional insurance through brokers, some insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously. Industrial and commercial companies increasingly rely upon their own subsidiary insurance companies, known as captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than buy insurance. Additional competitive pressures arise from the entry of non-traditional market participants, such as banks, accounting firms and insurance carriers themselves, offering risk management or transfer services. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may suffer lower revenue, reduced operating margins and lose market share which could materially and adversely affect our business.

The loss of our Chief Executive Officer or a number of our senior management or a significant number of our brokers could significantly impede our financial plans, growth, marketing and other objectives.

The loss of our Chief Executive Officer, a number of our senior management or a significant number of our brokers could significantly impede our financial plans, growth, marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of our Chief Executive Officer, Dominic Casserley, and other members of our senior management, but also on the individual brokers and teams that service our clients and maintain client relationships. The insurance and reinsurance brokerage industry has in the past experienced intense competition for the services of leading individual brokers and brokerage teams, and we have lost key individuals and teams to competitors. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled and qualified personnel and to expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not continue to be successful in doing so because the competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense. 

Investment in innovative product offerings may fail to yield sufficient return to cover their investment.

From time to time, we may enter new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, including the investment of significant time and resources, the possibility that these efforts will be unprofitable, and the risk of additional liabilities associated with these efforts. Failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new lines of business and new products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results for operations. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business. In addition, we can provide no assurance that the entry into new lines of business or development of new products and services will be successful.

We are continually developing and investing in new and innovative offerings that we believe will address needs that we identify in the market. Nevertheless, the ability of these efforts to produce meaningful value is dependent on a number of other factors, some of which are outside of our control. For example, we have recently launched G360, a suite of facilities for our specialty insurance clients which we expect will provide faster placement and claims agreements for our clients, and promote greater price competition in the specialty insurance market. The success of G360 will depend on client participation, market reaction as well as other factors both inside and outside our control. Additionally, our Global Human Capital and Benefits Practice has invested substantial time and resources in launching The Willis Advantage under the belief that this exchange will serve a useful role to help corporations and individuals in the US manage their growing health care expenses. But in order for The 

16
Risk factors

Willis Advantage to be successful, health care insurers and corporate and individual participants must deem it suitable to participate in, and such decisions are based on their own particular circumstances. 

Our business performance and growth plans could be negatively affected if we are not able to effectively apply technology to drive value for our clients through technology-based solutions or gain internal efficiencies through the effective application of technology and related tools.

Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and implement technology solutions that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our ideas may not be accepted in the marketplace. Additionally, the effort to gain technological expertise and develop new technologies in our business requires us to incur significant expenses. Our competitors are seeking to develop competing technologies, and their success in this space may impact our ability to differentiate our services to our clients through the use of unique technological solutions. If we cannot offer new technologies as quickly as our competitors or if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and complete client engagements. 

Legal and Regulatory Risks

Our compliance systems and controls cannot guarantee that we comply with all applicable federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business. 

Our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. Indeed, over the last few years, there has been a substantial increase in focus on and developments in these laws and regulations. Compliance with laws and regulations that apply to our operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include insurance and financial industry regulations, economic and trade sanctions and laws against financial crimes, including client money and money laundering, bribery or other corruption, such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other anti-competitive regulations. In most jurisdictions, governmental and regulatory authorities have the ability to interpret and amend these laws and regulations and impose penalties for non-compliance, including sanctions, civil remedies, monetary fines, injunctions, revocation of licenses or approvals, suspension of individuals, limitations on business activities or redress to clients. While we believe that we currently maintain good relationships with our regulators and that our current systems and controls are adequate and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure that such systems and controls will prevent any violations of applicable laws and regulations.

Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be materially adversely affected by actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings.

We are subject to various actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance and reinsurance in the ordinary course of business. Because we often assist our clients with matters, including the placement of insurance coverage and the handling of related claims, involving substantial amounts of money, errors and omissions claims against us may arise which allege our potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question.

Claimants can seek large damage awards and these claims can involve potentially significant defense costs. Such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include allegations of damages for our employees or sub-agents improperly failing to place coverage or notify claims on behalf of clients, to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis. Errors and omissions claims, lawsuits and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business are covered in part by professional indemnity or other appropriate insurance. The terms of this insurance vary by policy year and self-insured risks have increased significantly in recent years. In respect of self-insured risks, we have established provisions against these items which we believe to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to developments. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. Our ability to obtain professional indemnity insurance in the amounts and with the deductibles we desire in the future may be adversely impacted by general developments in the market for such insurance or our own claims experience.

We are also subject to actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings outside of errors and omissions claims. An example of material claims for which we are subject that are outside of the error and omissions claims context relate 

17
Willis Group Holdings plc

to those arising out of the collapse of The Stanford Financial Group, for which we acted as brokers of record on certain lines of insurance.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be ascertained and liabilities in indeterminate amounts may be imposed on us. It is thus possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters. In addition, these matters continue to divert management and personnel resources away from operating our business. Even if we do not experience significant monetary costs, there may also be adverse publicity associated with these matters that could result in reputational harm to the insurance brokerage industry in general or to us in particular that may adversely affect our business, client or employee relationships.

Accepting market derived income (MDI) may cause regulatory or other scrutiny, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, and our position on contingent commissions may put us at a competitive disadvantage. 

Insurance intermediaries have traditionally been remunerated by commission or fees paid by clients. Intermediaries also obtain revenue from insurance carriers. This is commonly known as market derived income or 'MDI'. MDI takes a variety of forms, including volume- or profit-based contingent commissions, facilities administration charges, business development agreements, and fees for providing certain data to carriers. We have recently stated that we will apply a set of criteria to evaluate on a case-by-case basis whether we will take MDI, and in what form. 

MDI creates various risks. Intermediaries have a duty to act in the best interests of their clients and payments from carriers can incentivize intermediaries to put carriers’ interests ahead of their clients. Accordingly, MDI may be subject to scrutiny by various regulators under conflict of interest, anti-trust, unfair competition, and anti-bribery laws and regulations. While accepting MDI is a lawful and acceptable business practice, and while we will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot predict whether our position will cause regulatory or other scrutiny. 

Additionally, as noted above, contingent commissions are a form of MDI. Over the past five years, other than in our Human Capital practice, we have not accepted contingent commissions from carriers. To our knowledge, we are the only insurance broker that takes this stance. If we continue to not accept contingents and our competitors accept volume- or profit-based continent commissions we may suffer lower revenue, reduced operating margins, and loss of market share which could materially and adversely affect our business.

IT and Operational Risks

Interruption to or loss of our information processing capabilities or failure to effectively maintain and upgrade our information processing systems could cause material financial loss, loss of human resources, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.

Our business depends significantly on effective information systems. Our capacity to service our clients relies on effective storage, retrieval, processing and management of information. Our information systems also rely on the commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems, develop and create new systems and products in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology or evolving industry and regulatory standards and to be at the forefront of a range of technology relevant to our business.

If the information we rely on to run our business were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effective and efficient systems (including through a telecommunications failure, failure to replace or update redundant or obsolete computer applications or software systems or if we experience other disruptions), this could result in material financial loss, regulatory action, reputational harm or legal liability.

18
Risk factors

Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other significant disruption to business continuity could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

Our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected, even in the short-term, by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption caused by restricted physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, or outages to electrical, communications or other services used by our company, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. Although we have certain disaster recovery procedures in place and insurance to protect against such contingencies, such procedures may not be effective and any insurance or recovery procedures may not continue to be available at reasonable prices and may not address all such losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that we are unable to provide services. Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other significant disruption to business continuity could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

Data security breaches or improper disclosure of confidential company or personal data could result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.

Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose confidential company and personal data systems to security breaches. Additionally, one of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our clients’ confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of their employees. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs.

We maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information in our database. However, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of data security breaches, improper access to or disclosure of confidential company or personally identifiable information. Our technology may fail to adequately secure the private information we maintain in our databases and protect it from theft, computer viruses, hackers or inadvertent loss. In such circumstances, we may be held liable to our clients, which could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further database privacy, identity theft, and related computer and internet issues are matters of growing public concern and are subject to frequently changing rules and regulations. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace.

Our non-core operations, such as our Willis Capital Markets & Advisory business, pose certain underwriting, advisory or reputational risks and can have a significant adverse impact on our financial results.

We provide a broad range of brokerage, reinsurance and risk management consulting services to our clients worldwide. We also engage in certain non-core operations. For example, our Willis Capital Markets & Advisory business provides advice to insurance and reinsurance companies on a broad array of mergers and acquisition transactions as well as capital markets products, including acting as underwriter or agent for primary issuances, operating a secondary insurance-linked securities trading desk and engaging in general capital markets and strategic advisory work. These operations may pose certain underwriting, advisory or reputational risks to our core business.

In addition, these non-core operations, although not material to the Group as a whole may, in any period, have a material effect on our results of operations. For example, our Willis Capital Markets & Advisory business is transaction-based which can cause results to differ from period-to-period. In another example, our financial results in 2011 and first two quarters of 2012 were adversely impacted by the significant deterioration of the financial results of our Loan Protector business driven by the loss of clients through attrition and M&A activity, industry-wide commission pressures and a slowdown in foreclosures.

Financial Risks 

Our outstanding debt could adversely affect our cash flows and financial flexibility. 

We had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2013 and our 2013 interest expense was $126 million. Although management believes that our cash flows will be sufficient to service this debt, there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this debt could adversely affect our cash flows and this level of indebtedness may:

•require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments in new technologies, to pay dividends and for general corporate purposes;

19
Willis Group Holdings plc

•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including if we borrow at variable interest rates, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally;

•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes or challenges relating to our business and industry; and

•put us at a competitive disadvantage against competitors who have less indebtedness or are in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources.

The terms of our current financings also include certain limitations. For example, the agreements relating to the debt arrangements and credit facilities contain numerous operating and financial covenants, including requirements to maintain minimum ratios of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated cash interest expense and maximum levels of consolidated funded indebtedness in relation to consolidated EBITDA, in each case subject to certain adjustments. 

A failure to comply with the restrictions under our credit facilities and outstanding notes could result in a default under the financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could cause our obligations with respect to our debt to be accelerated and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our pension liabilities may increase which could require us to make additional cash contributions to our pension plans reducing the cash available for other uses. 

We have two principal defined benefit plans: one in the United Kingdom and the other in the United States, and in addition, we have several smaller defined benefit pension plans in certain other countries in which we operate. Total cash contributions to these defined benefit pension plans in 2013 were $150 million, including employees' salary sacrifice contributions. In 2014, the Company expects to make cash contributions of approximately $134 million, including employees' salary sacrifice contributions, to these pension plans, although we may elect to contribute more. Future estimates are based on certain assumptions, including discount rates, interest rates, mortality, fair value of assets and expected return on plan assets.

In 2012, we agreed a revised funding strategy with the UK plan's trustee under which we are committed to make additional cash contributions in the event that our adjusted EBITDA exceeds certain thresholds, or we make exceptional returns for our shareholders, including share buybacks or special dividends. As a result, we may be committed to make additional contributions through to 2017 based on the prior year's performance. In addition, during 2014 we will be required to negotiate a new funding arrangement with the UK pension trustee, which may further change the contributions we are required to make during 2014 and beyond.

We have taken actions to manage our pension liabilities, including closing our UK and US plans to new participants and restricting final pensionable salaries. Future benefit accruals in the US pension plan were also stopped, or frozen, on May 15, 2009. Nevertheless, the determination of pension expense and pension funding is based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs, additional financial statement disclosure, and accelerate and increase the need to fully fund our pension plans through increased cash contributions. Further, a significant decline in the value of investments that fund our pension plan, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in our liabilities, may significantly alter the values and actuarial assumptions used to calculate our future pension expense and we could be required to fund our plan with significant additional amounts of cash. In addition to the critical assumptions described above, our plans use certain assumptions about the life expectancy of plan participants and surviving spouses. Periodic revision of those assumptions can materially change the present value of future benefits and therefore the funded status of the plans and the resulting periodic pension expense. Changes in our pension benefit obligations, the related net periodic costs or credits, and the required level of future cash contributions, may occur in the future due to any variance of actual results from our assumptions and changes in the number of participating employees. The need to make additional cash contributions may reduce our financial flexibility and increase liquidity risk by reducing the cash available to meet our other obligations, including the payment obligations under our credit facilities and other long-term debt, or other needs of our business.

We could incur substantial losses, including with respect to our own cash and fiduciary cash held on behalf of insurance companies and clients, if one of the financial institutions we use in our operations failed.

The deterioration of the global credit and financial markets has created challenging conditions for financial institutions, including depositories and the financial strength of these institutions may continue to decline. We maintain significant cash balances at various US depository institutions that are significantly in excess of the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. We also maintain significant cash balances in foreign financial institutions. A significant portion of this fiduciary cash is held on behalf of insurance companies or clients. If one or more of the institutions in which we maintain 

20
Risk factors

significant cash balances were to fail, our ability to access these funds might be temporarily or permanently limited, and we could face a material liquidity problem and potentially material financial losses. We could also be liable to claims made by the insurance companies or our clients regarding the fiduciary cash held on their behalf.

A downgrade to our corporate credit rating and the credit ratings of our outstanding debt may adversely affect our borrowing costs and financial flexibility and, under certain circumstances, may require us to offer to buy back some of our outstanding debt.

A downgrade in our corporate credit rating or the credit ratings of our debt would increase our borrowing costs including those under our credit facilities, and reduce our financial flexibility. In addition, certain downgrades would trigger a step-up in interest rates under the indentures for our 6.200% senior notes due 2017 and our 7.000% senior notes due 2019, which would increase our interest expense. If we need to raise capital in the future, any credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs or access to financing sources. This may in turn impact the assumptions when performing our goodwill impairment testing which may reduce the excess of fair value over carrying value of the reporting units. 

In addition, under the indenture for our 4.625% senior notes due 2023 and our 6.125% senior notes due 2043, if we experience a ratings decline together with a change of control event, we would be required to offer to purchase our 4.625% senior notes due 2023 and our 6.125% senior notes due 2043 from holders unless we had previously redeemed those notes. We may not have sufficient funds available or access to funding to repurchase tendered notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. Any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering event.

We face certain risks associated with the acquisition or disposition of businesses and lack of control over investments in associates.

In pursuing our corporate strategy, we may acquire or dispose of or exit businesses or reorganize existing investments. For example, we have a call option to acquire 100 percent of the capital of Gras Savoye. The success of our overall acquisition and disposition strategy is dependent upon our ability to identify appropriate opportunities, negotiate transactions on favorable terms and ultimately complete such transactions. Once we complete acquisitions or reorganizations there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any transaction, including revenue growth, operational efficiencies or expected synergies. For example, if we fail to recognize some or all of the strategic benefits and synergies expected from a transaction, goodwill and intangible assets may be impaired in future periods. 

In addition, we may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we could incur or assume unknown or unanticipated liabilities or contingencies, which may impact our results of operations. If we dispose of or otherwise exit certain businesses, there can be no assurance that we will not incur certain disposition related charges, or that we will be able to reduce overheads related to the divested assets. 

We also own an interest in a number of associates, such as Gras Savoye, where we do not exercise management control and we are therefore unable to direct or manage the business to realize the anticipated benefits that we can achieve through full integration.

If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings.

We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. We review goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred.

Our annual goodwill impairment analysis is performed each year at October 1. In fiscal year 2012, we recognized an impairment charge of $492 million in the Consolidated Statement of Operations in relation to our North American business. At October 1, 2013, our analysis showed that the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units were in excess of the carrying values and therefore did not result in any impairment charge in 2013.

Application of the impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units and determination of fair value of each reporting unit. Notwithstanding the fact that we recognized an impairment charge in fiscal year 2012 for our North American reporting unit, the risk remains that a significant deterioration in a key estimate or assumption or a less significant deterioration to a combination of assumptions or the sale of a part of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings.

21
Willis Group Holdings plc

For further information on our testing for goodwill impairment, see ‘Critical Accounting Estimates’ under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries.

Willis Group Holdings is organized as a holding company that conducts no business of its own. We are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to shareholders and for corporate expenses. Legal and regulatory restrictions, foreign exchange controls, as well as operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from these subsidiaries. For example, Willis Limited, our UK brokerage subsidiary regulated by the FCA, is currently required to maintain $126 million in unencumbered and available funds, of which at least $79 million must be in cash, for regulatory purposes. In the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to Willis Group Holdings, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on ordinary shares. 

International Risks

Our significant non-US operations, particularly our London market operations, expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business.

A significant portion of our operations is conducted outside the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into pounds sterling or dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; and the requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws.

We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars. Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in US dollars. In our London market operations, however, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in pounds sterling. Outside the United States and our London market operations, we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in the local currency. The table gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency in 2013. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into US dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. Furthermore, the mismatch between pounds sterling revenues and expenses, together with any net sterling balance sheet position we hold in our US dollar denominated London market operations, creates an exchange exposure.

For example, as the pound sterling strengthens, the US dollars required to be translated into pounds sterling to cover the net sterling expenses increase, which then causes our results to be negatively impacted. However, any net sterling asset we are holding will be more valuable when translated into US dollars. Given these facts, the strength of the pound sterling relative to the US dollar has in the past had a material negative impact on our reported results. This risk could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition, cash flow and results of operations in the future.

Where needed, we deploy a hedging strategy to mitigate part of our operating exposure to exchange rate movements, but such mitigating attempts may not be successful. For more information on this strategy, see Part II Item 8 - 'Note 26 Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities'. 

In conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, market, nationalization, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.

In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to political, economic, legal, market, nationalization, operational and other risks. Our businesses and operations continue to expand into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets. The possible effects of economic and financial disruptions throughout the world could have an adverse impact on our businesses. These risks include:

•the general economic and political conditions in foreign countries;

22
Risk factors

•the imposition of controls or limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;

•imposition of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments from subsidiaries;

•imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments;

•fluctuations in our effective tax rate;

•difficulties in controlling operations and monitoring employees in geographically dispersed and culturally diverse locations; 

•the potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with a wide variety of foreign laws (some of which may conflict with US or other sources of law), laws and regulations applicable to insurance brokers and US business operations abroad, including rules relating to the conduct of business, trade sanctions administered by the US Office of Foreign Assets Control, the EU, the UK and the UN, and the requirements of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as well as other anti-bribery and corruption rules and requirements in the countries in which we operate; and

•the potential costs and difficulties in complying with local regulation for our operating subsidiaries across the globe. 

Legislative and regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us and our effective tax rate may increase.

There is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate (which include the potential legislative actions described below), and our effective tax rate may increase and any such increase may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of Ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. For example, legislative action may be taken by the US Congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we rely or could broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a US resident, each of which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. However, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between Ireland and other jurisdictions (including the US), we could be subjected to increased taxation. In addition, any future amendments to the current income tax treaties between Ireland and other jurisdictions could subject us to increased taxation. 

Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.

It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the US federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of US courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the US federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any US federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on US federal or state securities laws, would not be directly enforceable in Ireland. While not directly enforceable, it is possible for a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any US federal or state court based on civil liability to be enforced in Ireland through common law rules. However, this process is subject to numerous established principles and would involve the commencement of a new set of proceedings in Ireland to enforce the judgment.

As an Irish company, Willis Group Holdings is governed by the Irish Companies Acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to US corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the Company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of Willis Group Holdings securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States. 

Item 1B — Unresolved Staff Comments

The Company had no unresolved comments from the SEC’s staff.

23
Willis Group Holdings plc

Item 2 — Properties