Part I  

 Item 1. Business.  

Overview.  

Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. The Company is a financial holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). The Company conducts its business from its headquarters in and around New York City, its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. At December 31, 2014, the Company had 55,802 employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Morgan Stanley together with its consolidated subsidiaries.  

Financial information concerning the Company, its business segments and geographic regions for each of the 12 months ended December 31, 2014 (“2014”), December 31, 2013 (“2013”) and December 31, 2012 (“2012”) is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.  

Available Information.  

The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may read and copy any document the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The Company’s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.   

The Company’s internet site is www.morganstanley.com. You can access the Company’s Investor Relations webpage at www.morganstanley.com/about-us-ir. The Company makes available free of charge, on or through its Investor Relations webpage, its proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC’s internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of the Company’s equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.  

You can access information about the Company’s corporate governance at www.morganstanley.com/about-us-governance. The Company’s Corporate Governance webpage includes the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation; Amended and Restated Bylaws; charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, Operations and Technology Committee, and Risk Committee; Corporate Governance Policies; Policy Regarding Communication with the Company’s Board of Directors; Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders; Policy Regarding Corporate Political Activities; Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan; Code of Ethics and Business Conduct; Code of Conduct; and Integrity Hotline information.  

Morgan Stanley’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer. The Company  

    1      

Table of Contents 

 will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC (“NYSE”) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on the Company’s internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

Business Segments.  

The Company is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management.  

Institutional Securities.  

The Company’s Institutional Securities business segment provides financial advisory and capital-raising services to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients globally, primarily through wholly owned subsidiaries that include Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC (“MS&Co.”) and Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc (“MSIP”), and certain joint venture entities that include Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. (“MSMS”) and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (“MUMSS”). The Company, primarily through these entities, also conducts sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and agent, and provides related financing services on behalf of institutional investors.  

Investment Banking and Corporate Lending Activities.  

Capital Raising. The Company manages and participates in public offerings and private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. The Company is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other equity-related securities, including convertible securities and American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”). The Company is also a leading underwriter of fixed income securities, including investment grade debt, non-investment grade instruments, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, tax-exempt securities and commercial paper and other short-term securities.  

Financial Advisory Services. The Company provides corporate and other institutional clients globally with advisory services on key strategic matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, corporate restructurings, recapitalizations, spin-offs, exchange offers and leveraged buyouts and takeover defenses as well as shareholder relations. The Company also provides advice and services concerning rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk management strategies and financial planning. In addition, the Company furnishes advice and services regarding project financings and provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale, leasing and financing of real estate.  

Corporate Lending. The Company provides loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing, to select corporate clients through its subsidiaries, including Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. (“MSBNA”). These loans and lending commitments have varying terms; may be senior or subordinated; may be secured or unsecured; are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower; and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the Company. The borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade.  

Sales and Trading Activities.  

The Company conducts sales, trading, financing and market-making activities on securities, swaps and futures, both on exchanges and in over-the-counter (“OTC”) markets around the world. The Company’s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities comprise Institutional Equity; Fixed Income and Commodities; Research; and Investments.  

      2    

Table of Contents 

Institutional Equity. The Company acts as agent and principal (including as a market-maker) in executing transactions globally in cash equity and equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, global depositary receipts and exchange-traded funds.  

The Company acts as agent and principal (including as a market-maker) in executing transactions globally in equity derivatives and equity-linked or related products, including options, equity swaps, warrants, structured notes and futures on individual securities, indices and baskets of securities and other equity-related products. The Company offers prime brokerage services to clients, including consolidated clearance, settlement, custody, financing and portfolio reporting. In addition, the Company provides wealth management services to ultra-high net worth and high net worth clients in select regions outside the U.S.  

Fixed Income and Commodities. The Company trades, invests and makes markets in fixed income securities and related products globally, including, among other products, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt; distressed debt; bank loans; U.S. and other sovereign securities; emerging market bonds and loans; convertible bonds; collateralized debt obligations; credit, currency, interest rate and other fixed income-linked notes; securities issued by structured investment vehicles; mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate-loan products; municipal securities; preferred stock and commercial paper; and money-market and other short-term securities. The Company is a primary dealer of U.S. federal government securities and a member of the selling groups that distribute various U.S. agency and other debt securities. The Company is also a primary dealer or market-maker of government securities in numerous European, Asian and emerging market countries, as well as Canada.  

The Company trades, invests and makes markets globally in listed swaps and futures and OTC cleared and uncleared swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, credit indexes, asset-backed security indexes, property indexes, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products.  

The Company trades, invests and makes markets in major foreign currencies, such as the British pound, Canadian dollar, euro, Japanese yen and Swiss franc, as well as in emerging markets currencies. The Company trades these currencies on a principal basis in the spot, forward, option and futures markets.  

Through the use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, the Company acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. The Company also provides financing to customers for commercial and residential real estate loan products and other securitizable asset classes, and distributes such securitized assets to investors. In addition, the Company engages in principal securities lending with clients, institutional lenders and other broker-dealers.  

The Company advises on investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in their debt repurchases and planning. The Company structures debt securities, derivatives and other instruments with risk/return factors designed to suit client objectives, including using repackaged asset and other structured vehicles through which clients can restructure asset portfolios to provide liquidity or reconfigure risk profiles.  

The Company trades, invests and makes markets in the spot, forward, OTC cleared and uncleared swaps, options and futures markets in several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. The Company offers counterparties hedging programs relating to production, consumption, reserve/inventory management and structured transactions, including energy-contract securitizations and monetization. The Company is an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and owns electricity-generating facilities in the U.S. The Company owns a minority interest in Heidmar Holdings LLC, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services.  

    3      

Table of Contents 

Research. The Company’s research department (“Research”) coordinates globally across all of the Company’s businesses and consists of economists, strategists and industry analysts who engage in equity and fixed income research activities and produce reports and studies on the U.S. and global economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses, individual companies and industry developments. Research examines worldwide trends covering numerous industries and individual companies, the majority of which are located outside the U.S.; provides analysis and forecasts relating to economic and monetary developments that affect matters such as interest rates, foreign currencies, securities, derivatives and economic trends; and provides analytical support and publishes reports on asset-backed securities and the markets in which such securities are traded; and data are disseminated to investors through third-party distributors, proprietary internet sites such as Client Linksm and Matrixsm, and the Company’s global representatives.  

Investments. The Company from time to time makes investments that represent business facilitation or other investing activities. Such investments are typically strategic investments undertaken by the Company to facilitate core business activities. From time to time, the Company may also make investments and capital commitments to public and private companies, funds and other entities.  

The Company sponsors and manages investment vehicles and separate accounts for clients seeking exposure to private equity, infrastructure, mezzanine lending and real estate-related and other alternative investments. The Company may also invest in and provide capital to such investment vehicles. See also “Investment Management” herein.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

The Company’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform required to support Institutional Securities sales and trading activity, including post-execution trade processing and related internal controls over activity from trade entry through settlement and custody, such as asset servicing. This support is provided for listed and OTC transactions in commodities, equity and fixed income securities, including both primary and secondary trading, as well as listed, OTC and structured derivatives in markets around the world. These activities are undertaken through the Company’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Wealth Management.  

The Company’s Wealth Management business segment provides comprehensive financial services to clients through a network of 16,076 global representatives in 622 locations at year-end 2014. As of December 31, 2014, Wealth Management had $2,025 billion in client assets.  

Clients.  

Wealth Management professionals serve individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions with an emphasis on ultra-high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. Wealth Management representatives are located in branches across the U.S. and provide solutions designed to accommodate the individual investment objectives, risk tolerance and liquidity needs of investors residing in and outside the U.S. Call centers are available to meet the needs of emerging affluent clients.  

Products and Services.  

Wealth Management provides clients with a comprehensive array of financial solutions, including products and services from the Company and third-party providers, such as other financial institutions, insurance companies and mutual fund families. Wealth Management provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various types of investments, including equities, options, futures, foreign currencies, precious metals, fixed  

      4    

Table of Contents 

 income securities, mutual funds, structured products, alternative investments, unit investment trusts, managed futures, separately managed accounts and mutual fund asset allocation programs. Wealth Management also engages in fixed income principal trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading or investments in such securities. In addition, Wealth Management offers education savings programs, financial and wealth planning services, and annuity and other insurance products.  

In addition, Wealth Management offers its clients access to several cash management services through various banks and other third parties, including deposits, debit cards, electronic bill payments and check writing, as well as lending products through affiliates such as MSBNA and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (“MSPBNA” and, together with MSBNA, the “U.S. Subsidiary Banks”), including securities-based lending, mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. Wealth Management also offers access to trust and fiduciary services, offers access to cash management and commercial credit solutions to qualified small- and medium-sized businesses in the U.S., and provides individual and corporate retirement solutions, including individual retirement accounts and 401(k) plans and U.S. and global stock plan services to corporate executives and businesses.  

Wealth Management provides clients a variety of ways to establish a relationship and conduct business, including brokerage accounts with transaction-based pricing and investment advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

The Company’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform to support the Wealth Management business segment, including core securities processing, capital markets operations, product services, and alternative investments, margin, payments and related internal controls over activity from trade entry through settlement and custody. These activities are undertaken through the Company’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with affiliates and unaffiliated third parties.  

Investment Management.  

The Company’s Investment Management business segment, consisting of Traditional Asset Management, Alternative Investments, Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing activities, is one of the largest global investment management organizations of any full-service financial services firm and offers clients a broad array of equity, fixed income, alternative investments, real estate and merchant banking strategies. Portfolio managers and other investment professionals located in the U.S., Europe and Asia manage investment products ranging from money market funds to equity and fixed income strategies, alternative investment and merchant banking products in developed and emerging markets across geographies and market capitalization ranges.  

Institutional Investors.  

The Company provides investment management strategies and products to institutional investors worldwide, including corporations, pension plans, endowments, foundations, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies and banks through a broad range of pooled vehicles and separate accounts. Additionally, the Company provides sub-advisory services to various unaffiliated financial institutions and intermediaries. A Global Sales and Client Services team is engaged in business development and relationship management for consultants to help serve institutional clients.  

Intermediary Clients and Individual Investors.  

The Company offers open-end and alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies, financial planners and  

    5      

Table of Contents 

 other intermediaries. Closed-end funds managed by the Company are available to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers. The Company also distributes mutual funds through numerous retirement plan platforms. Internationally, the Company distributes traditional investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through non-proprietary distributors and distributes alternative investment products through broker-dealers and banks.  

Alternative Investments, Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing.  

The Company offers a range of alternative investment, real estate investing and merchant banking products for institutional investors and high net worth individuals. The Company’s alternative investments product mix includes funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity and real estate funds, portable alpha strategies and managed futures. The Company also holds minority stakes in Lansdowne Partners and Avenue Capital Group. The Company’s real estate and merchant banking businesses include its real estate investing business, private equity funds, credit investing group and infrastructure investing group. The Company typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, its alternative investment, real estate and merchant banking funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds with subscribing investors contributing the majority.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

The Company’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide or oversee the process and technology platform required to support its Investment Management business segment, including transfer agency, mutual fund accounting and administration, transaction processing and certain fiduciary services on behalf of institutional, intermediary and high net worth clients. This activity is undertaken through the Company’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Competition.  

All aspects of the Company’s businesses are highly competitive, and the Company expects them to remain so. The Company competes in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent in all aspects of its business segments. The Company’s competitive position depends on its reputation and the quality and consistency of its long-term investment performance. The Company’s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. The Company competes with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds and private equity funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. Such changes could result in the Company’s remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. See also “—Supervision and Regulation” below and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.  

Institutional Securities and Wealth Management.  

The Company’s competitive position for its Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. The Company competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with others on a regional or product basis.  

The Company’s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally impacted by the Company’s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales,  

      6    

Table of Contents 

 trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate clients may request that the Company provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities and such requests are expected to increase in the future.  

It is possible that competition may become even more intense as the Company continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure on the Company’s businesses. Operating within the financial services industry on a global basis presents, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for the Company to remain competitive. In addition, the Company’s business is subject to increased regulation in the U.S. and abroad, while certain of its competitors may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than the Company, thereby putting the Company at a competitive disadvantage.  

The Company has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions and comparable fees. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading platforms. It is also possible that the Company will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices (in the form of commissions or pricing).  

Investment Management.  

Competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including the Company’s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. The Company’s alternative investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and funds of funds, compete with similar products offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers, who may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than the Company.  

Supervision and Regulation.  

As a major financial services firm, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where it conducts its business. Moreover, in response to the 2007–2008 financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose and are in the process of adopting, finalizing and implementing a wide range of reforms that are resulting in major changes to the way the Company is regulated and conducts its business. These reforms include the Dodd-Frank Act; risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”), including Basel III, and the national implementation of those standards; and new resolution regimes that are being developed in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. While certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods.  

It is likely that 2015 and subsequent years will see further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which the Company operates, although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period.  

    7      

Table of Contents 

Financial Holding Company.  

Consolidated Supervision.  

The Company has operated as a bank holding company and financial holding company under the BHC Act since September 2008. As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve also gained heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all of the Company’s subsidiaries. In particular, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to more intensive scrutiny of its businesses and plans for expansion of those businesses, to new activities limitations, to a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements, to new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by a section of the BHC Act added by the Dodd-Frank Act referred to as the “Volcker Rule” and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has primary rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer protection laws, to the extent applicable.  

Scope of Permitted Activities. The BHC Act places limits on the activities of bank holding companies and financial holding companies, and grants the Federal Reserve authority to limit the Company’s ability to conduct activities. The Company must obtain Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the U.S. and internationally. Since becoming a bank holding company, the Company has disposed of certain nonconforming assets and conformed certain activities to the requirements of the BHC Act.  

In addition, the Company continues to engage in discussions with the Federal Reserve regarding its commodities activities, as the BHC Act also grandfathers “activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,” provided that the Company was engaged in “any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the United States” and provided that certain other conditions that are within the Company’s reasonable control are satisfied. If the Federal Reserve were to determine that any of the Company’s commodities activities did not qualify for the BHC Act grandfather exemption, then the Company would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the BHC Act. At this time, the Company believes, based on its interpretation of applicable law, that (i) such commodities activities qualify for the BHC Act grandfather exemption or otherwise conform to the BHC Act and (ii) if the Federal Reserve were to determine otherwise, any required divestment would not have a material adverse impact on its financial condition. After issuing an advance notice of proposed rulemaking in January 2014 on certain aspects of financial holding companies’ physical commodities activities and merchant banking investments in nonfinancial companies, the Federal Reserve stated that it is considering a range of possible actions to address the risks associated with these activities and investments, including additional capital, risk management and reporting requirements, and indicated that it will issue a formal notice of rulemaking regarding such matters in 2015.  

Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule. In December 2013, U.S. regulators issued final regulations to implement the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule will, over time, prohibit “banking entities,” including the Company and its affiliates, from engaging in certain prohibited “proprietary trading” activities, as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule will also require banking entities to either restructure or unwind certain investments and relationships with “covered funds,” as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to certain exemptions and exclusions. Banking entities have until July 21, 2015 to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the Volcker Rule, subject to certain extensions. In addition, the Volcker Rule requires banking entities to establish comprehensive compliance programs designed to help ensure and monitor compliance with restrictions under the Volcker Rule.  

The Volcker Rule also requires that certain deductions be made from a bank holding company’s Tier 1 capital for certain investments in covered funds. These deductions do not yet apply and in any event must be reconciled by the applicable regulators with the U.S. Basel III capital requirements discussed below.  

      8    

Table of Contents 

The Company is taking steps to establish the necessary compliance programs to comply with the Volcker Rule. Given the complexity of the new framework, the full impact of the Volcker Rule is still uncertain and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight.  

Capital and Liquidity Standards. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company and evaluates its compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks.  

The current risk-based and leverage capital framework governing the Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks is based on the Basel III capital standards established by the Basel Committee, as modified in certain respects by the U.S. banking agencies, and is referred to herein as “U.S. Basel III.” The Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks became subject to U.S. Basel III on January 1, 2014. Aspects of U.S. Basel III, such as the minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements, new capital buffers, and certain deductions from and adjustments to capital, will be phased in over several years. Prior to January 1, 2014, the Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks calculated regulatory capital ratios using the U.S. banking regulators’ U.S. Basel I-based rules (“U.S. Basel I”) as supplemented by rules that implemented the Basel Committee’s market risk capital framework amendment, commonly referred to as “Basel 2.5.”  

U.S. Basel III, which is aimed at increasing the quality and amount of regulatory capital, establishes Common Equity Tier 1 capital as a new tier of capital, increases minimum required risk-based capital ratios, provides for capital buffers above those minimum ratios, narrows the eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments, provides for new regulatory capital deductions and adjustments, modifies methods for calculating risk-weighted assets (“RWAs”)—the denominator of risk-based capital ratios—by, among other things, increasing counterparty credit risk capital requirements and, introduces a supplementary leverage ratio.  

On a fully phased in basis, the Company will be subject to the following minimum capital ratios under U.S. Basel III: Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%; Total capital ratio of 8.0%; Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%; and supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%. In addition, on a fully phased in basis by 2019, the Company will also be subject to a greater than 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer and, if deployed by banking regulators, up to a 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 countercyclical buffer. The capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, if any, apply over each of the Company’s Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios. Failure to maintain such buffers will result in restrictions on the Company’s ability to make capital distributions, including the payment of dividends and the repurchase of stock, and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. The Federal Reserve may require the Company and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk and leverage-based capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a financial holding company’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.  

Effective January 1, 2015, the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks qualify as “well-capitalized” under the higher capital requirements in U.S. Basel III, by maintaining a total risk-based capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets) of at least 5%.  

In addition, under U.S. Basel III, new items (including certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions) are deducted from the respective tiers of regulatory capital, and certain existing regulatory deductions and adjustments are modified or are no longer applicable. Most of these capital deductions are subject to a phase in schedule and will be fully phased in by 2018. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are reflected in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, subject to a phase in schedule.  

On February 21, 2014, the Federal Reserve and the OCC approved the Company’s and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks’ respective use of the U.S. Basel III advanced internal ratings-based approach for determining credit risk  

    9      

Table of Contents 

 capital requirements and advanced measurement approaches for determining operational risk capital requirements to calculate and publicly disclose their risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014, subject to the “capital floor” discussed below (the “Advanced Approach”). As an Advanced Approach banking organization, the Company is required to compute risk-based capital ratios using both (i) standardized approaches for calculating credit risk weighted assets (“RWAs”) and market risk RWAs (the “Standardized Approach”); and (ii) an advanced internal ratings-based approach for calculating credit risk RWAs, an advanced measurement approach for calculating operational risk RWAs, and an advanced approach for calculating market risk RWAs under U.S. Basel III.  

To implement a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. Basel III subjects Advanced Approach banking organizations that have been approved by their regulators to exit the parallel run, such as the Company, to a permanent “capital floor.” In 2014, as a result of the capital floor, an Advanced Approach banking organization’s binding risk-based capital ratios were the lower of its ratios computed under the Advanced Approach and U.S. Basel I as supplemented by Basel 2.5. Beginning on January 1, 2015, the Company’s ratios for regulatory purposes are the lower of the capital ratios computed under the Advanced Approach or the Standardized Approach under U.S. Basel III. The U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach modifies certain U.S. Basel I-based methods for calculating RWAs and prescribes new standardized risk weights for certain types of assets and exposures. The capital floor applies to the calculation of the minimum risk-based capital requirements as well as the capital conservation buffer and, if deployed by banking regulators, the countercyclical capital buffer. The methods for calculating each of the Company’s risk-based capital ratios will change through January 1, 2022 as U.S. Basel III’s revisions to the numerator and denominator are phased in and as the Company calculates RWAs using the Advanced Approach and the Standardized Approach. These ongoing methodological changes may result in differences in the Company’s reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next that are independent of changes to the Company’s capital base, asset composition, off-balance sheet exposures or risk profile. 

U.S. Basel III also requires the Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks to comply with supplementary leverage ratio requirements, which U.S. banking regulators increased in 2014 above standards established by the Basel Committee. Specifically, beginning in 2018, the Company must maintain a Tier 1 supplementary leverage capital buffer of greater than 2% in addition to the 3% minimum supplementary leverage ratio (for a total of greater than 5%), in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and stock repurchases, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. In addition, beginning in 2018, to be considered “well-capitalized” the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks must maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of 6%. The denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio, as revised by the U.S. banking agencies in 2014 to conform with revised leverage standards adopted by the Basel Committee, is based on the average daily balance of consolidated on-balance sheet assets under generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”) less certain amounts deducted from Tier 1 capital at quarter-end and the average month-end balance of certain off-balance sheet exposures associated with derivatives (including centrally cleared derivatives and sold credit protection), repo-style transactions and other off-balance sheet items during the calendar quarter. The enhanced supplementary leverage ratio standards will become effective for both the Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks on January 1, 2018 with quarterly public disclosure beginning on January 1, 2015. 

Although U.S. Basel III is in effect, the U.S. banking agencies and the Basel Committee have each proposed, or are considering proposing, revisions to the regulatory capital framework that would modify the regulatory capital standards governing the Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks. In December 2014, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would impose risk-based capital surcharges on U.S. bank holding companies that are identified as global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”). Although the Federal Reserve’s proposal is based upon the Basel Committee’s international G-SIB surcharge framework, the methodologies proposed by the Federal Reserve generally would result in G-SIB surcharges that are higher than the levels required by the Basel Committee framework and would directly take into account the extent of each U.S. G-SIB’s reliance on short-term wholesale funding. Under the proposal, a bank holding company identified as a G-SIB would calculate its G-SIB surcharge under two methods. The first would consider the G-SIB’s size, interconnectedness, cross- 

      10    

Table of Contents 

 jurisdictional activity, substitutability, and complexity, which is generally consistent with the methodology developed by the Basel Committee. The second method would use similar inputs, but would replace substitutability with use of short-term wholesale funding and generally would result in higher surcharges than the Basel Committee framework. A G-SIB’s surcharge would be the higher of the surcharges determined under the two methods. Under the proposal, the G-SIB surcharge must be satisfied using Common Equity Tier 1 capital and would function as an extension of the capital conservation buffer. The Federal Reserve estimates that its proposal could result in G-SIB surcharges ranging from 1.0% to 4.5% of a G-SIB’s RWAs. The proposal would be phased in between January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019. 

The Basel Committee is in the process of considering revisions to various provisions of the Basel III framework that, if adopted by the U.S. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to U.S. Basel III. In particular, the Basel Committee has finalized a new methodology for calculating counterparty credit risk exposures, the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures (“SA-CCR”); has finalized a revised framework establishing capital requirements for securitizations; and has proposed revisions to various regulatory capital standards. In each case, the impact of these revised standards on the Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks is uncertain and depends on future rulemakings by the U.S. banking agencies.  

In addition to capital regulations, the U.S. banking agencies and the Basel Committee have adopted, or are in the process of considering, liquidity standards. The Basel Committee has developed two standards intended for use in liquidity risk supervision, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”). The LCR generally requires banking organizations to maintain an amount of high-quality liquid assets that is no less than 100% of their total net cash outflows arising from significant stress over a prospective 30 calendar-day period.  

In September 2014, U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule to implement the LCR in the U.S. (“U.S. LCR”). The U.S. LCR applies to the Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks. The U.S. LCR is more stringent in certain respects than the Basel Committee’s version of the LCR as it includes a generally narrower definition of debt and equity securities that qualify as high-quality liquid assets, different methodologies and assumptions for calculating net cash outflows during the 30-day stress period, a maturity mismatch add-on, and a shorter, two-year phase-in period that ends on December 31, 2016. Additionally, under the U.S. LCR, a banking organization must submit a liquidity compliance plan to its primary federal banking agency if it fails to maintain the minimum U.S. LCR requirement for three consecutive business days. Beginning on January 1, 2015, the Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks are required to maintain a minimum U.S. LCR of 80%. This minimum requirement will increase to 90% beginning on January 1, 2016, and will be fully phased in at 100% beginning on January 1, 2017. The Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks must calculate their respective LCR on a monthly basis during the period between January 1, 2015 and June 30, 2015, and on each business day starting on July 1, 2015.  

The NSFR is defined as the ratio of the amount of available stable funding to the amount of required stable funding. The standard’s objective is to reduce funding risk over a one-year horizon by requiring banking organizations to fund their activities with sufficiently stable sources of funding in order to mitigate the risk of future funding stress. In October 2014, the Basel Committee finalized revisions to the original December 2010 version of the NSFR. The U.S. banking agencies are expected to issue a proposal to implement the NSFR in the U.S. The Company continues to evaluate the NSFR and its potential impact on the Company’s current liquidity and funding requirements.  

See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Basel Liquidity Framework and Regulatory Requirements” in Part II, Item 7.  

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including the Company, which form part of the Federal Reserve’s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) framework. Under the Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule, the Company must submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by the Company and the Federal Reserve.  

    11      

Table of Contents 

The capital plan must include a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution (i.e., payments of dividends or stock repurchases), and any similar action that the Federal Reserve determines could impact the bank holding company’s consolidated capital. The capital plan must include a discussion of how the bank holding company will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the minimum ratios under U.S. Basel III that are phased in over the planning horizon, and above a Tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio of 5%, and serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary U.S. depository institutions under supervisory stress scenarios. The capital plan rule requires that such companies receive no objection from the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution. In addition, even with an approved capital plan, the bank holding company must seek the approval of the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, the bank holding company would not meet its regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. In addition to capital planning requirements, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) have the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. All of these policies and other requirements could affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock, or require it to provide capital assistance to its U.S. Subsidiary Banks under circumstances which the Company would not otherwise decide to do so.  

In addition, the Federal Reserve’s final rule on stress testing under the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Company to conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests. The rule also subjects the Company to an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve. On January 5, 2015, the Company submitted the results of its semi-annual stress test to the Federal Reserve.  

The Company expects that, on March 11, 2015, the Federal Reserve will provide its response to the Company’s 2015 capital plan (that was submitted to the Federal Reserve on January 5, 2015). The Company received no objection to its 2014 capital plan (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Management” in Part II, Item 7).  

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires each of the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks to conduct an annual stress test. MSBNA submitted its 2015 annual company-run stress tests to the OCC on January 5, 2015. MSPBNA will submit its 2015 annual company-run stress tests in March 2015.  

See also “—Capital and Liquidity Standards” above and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” in Part II, Item 7.  

Systemic Risk Regime. The Dodd-Frank Act established a regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions deemed to pose systemic risks. Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as the Company, became automatically subject to the systemic risk regime in July 2010. A new oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “FSOC”), can recommend prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements for systemically important financial institutions to the Federal Reserve. The FSOC is also empowered to designate systemically important payment, clearing and settlement activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and regulation and, assisted by the new Office of Financial Research within the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”) (established by the Dodd-Frank Act), can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including the Company.  

The systemic risk regime established by the Dodd-Frank Act, provides that, if the Federal Reserve determines that a systemically important financial institution poses a “grave threat” to U.S. financial stability, the Federal Reserve, with the FSOC’s approval, must limit that institution’s ability to merge, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities or, as a last resort, require it to dispose of assets. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish further standards, including those  

      12    

Table of Contents 

 regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures.  

In February 2014, the Federal Reserve issued final rules to implement certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act’s enhanced prudential standards. Effective on January 1, 2015, the final rules require bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, such as the Company, to conduct internal liquidity stress tests, maintain unencumbered highly liquid assets to meet projected net cash outflows for 30 days over the range of liquidity stress scenarios used in internal stress tests, and comply with various liquidity risk management requirements. In addition, the final rules require institutions to comply with a range of risk management and corporate governance requirements, such as establishment of a risk committee of the board of directors and appointment of a chief risk officer, both of which the Company already has. Under the final rules, upon a grave threat determination by the FSOC, the Federal Reserve must require the affected bank holding company to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15-to-1 if the FSOC considers it necessary to mitigate the risk.  

In addition, the Federal Reserve has proposed rules that would limit the aggregate exposure of each bank holding company with $500 billion or more in total consolidated assets, such as the Company, and each company designated by the FSOC, to other such institution to 10% of the aggregate capital and surplus of each institution, and limit the aggregate exposure of such institutions to any other unaffiliated counterparty to 25% of the institution’s aggregate capital and surplus. The proposed rules would also create a new early remediation framework to address financial distress or material management weaknesses determined with reference to four levels of early remediation, including heightened supervisory review, initial remediation, recovery, and resolution assessment, with specific limitations and requirements tied to each level. The Federal Reserve has stated that it will issue, at a later date, final rules establishing single counterparty credit limits and an early remediation framework.  

See also “—Capital and Liquidity Standards” herein and “—Resolution and Recovery Planning” below.  

Resolution and Recovery Planning. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is required to submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the Company. On August 5, 2014, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC notified the Company and 10 other large banking organizations that certain shortcomings in their 2013 resolution plans must be addressed in the 2015 resolution plans, which must be submitted on or before July 1, 2015. If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC were to determine that the Company’s resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution and the Company does not cure the plan’s deficiencies, the Company or any of its subsidiaries may be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on its growth, activities, or operations, or the Company may be required to divest assets or operations.  

In addition, MSBNA must submit to the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes MSBNA’s strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of a material financial distress or failure of MSBNA. On December 17, 2014, the FDIC issued guidance regarding the resolution plans for insured depository institutions such as MSBNA, including requirements with respect to failure scenarios and the development and analysis of a range of realistic resolution strategies.  

Further, the Company is required to submit an annual recovery plan to the Federal Reserve that outlines the steps that management could take over time to reduce risk, increase liquidity, and conserve capital in times of prolonged stress.  

Certain of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.  

    13      

Table of Contents 

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as the Company and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to resolution under an orderly liquidation authority with the FDIC appointed as receiver. A financial company whose largest U.S. subsidiary is a broker or dealer could be resolved under this authority only upon the recommendation of two-thirds of the FRB and two-thirds of the SEC Commissioners, on their own initiative or at the request of the U.S. Treasury Secretary, and in consultation with the FDIC as well as a determination by the U.S. Treasury Secretary in consultation with the President of the U.S.  

The orderly liquidation authority rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with some regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed. If the Company were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would have considerable powers, including (i) the power to remove officers and directors responsible for the Company’s failure and to appoint new directors and officers; (ii) the power to assign assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (iii) the ability to differentiate among creditors, including by treating junior creditors better than senior creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (iv) broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership. In December 2013, the FDIC released its proposed single point of entry strategy for resolution of a systemically important financial institution under the orderly liquidation authority. The strategy involves placing the top-tier U.S. holding company in receivership and keeping its operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring the operating subsidiaries to a new bridge holding company, recapitalizing the operating subsidiaries and imposing losses on the shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority.  

The Federal Reserve has indicated that it may also introduce a requirement that certain large bank holding companies maintain a minimum amount of long-term debt at the holding company level to facilitate orderly resolution of those firms. In November 2014, the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) issued a policy proposal to establish a minimum international standard for total loss-absorbing capacity (“TLAC”) for G-SIBs, in addition to regulatory capital requirements, in order to enhance the loss-absorbing and recapitalization capacity of such institutions in resolution. The FSB’s proposed minimum TLAC requirement would be set within the range of 16% to 20% of RWAs (excluding any applicable regulatory capital buffers, which would continue to be required in addition to the minimum TLAC requirement) and at least twice the minimum Basel III Tier 1 leverage ratio requirement. Regulators may also impose an additional TLAC requirement taking into account the G-SIB’s recovery and resolution plans, systemic footprint, business model, risk profile and organizational structure. The minimum TLAC requirement would apply to each entity to which resolution tools would be applied within a G-SIB. The FSB has proposed eligibility criteria for liabilities to qualify as TLAC and a requirement that TLAC-eligible liabilities be subordinated to non-TLAC-eligible liabilities. In addition, certain material entities that are not resolution entities would be subject to an internal TLAC requirement. According to the FSB, the conformance period for the TLAC requirement would not begin prior to January 1, 2019.  

On November 12, 2014, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries adhered to the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) 2014 Resolution Stay Protocol (the “Protocol”), which applies to OTC derivatives traded under ISDA Master Agreements. The Protocol overrides certain cross-default rights and certain other default rights related to the entry of an adhering dealer party or its affiliates into certain resolution proceedings. The Federal Reserve is expected to promulgate regulations implementing portions of the Protocol related to U.S. Bankruptcy Code and certain other matters, which are anticipated to take effect in 2016 or 2017.  

As with other major financial companies, the combined effects of the orderly liquidation authority and of the FSB’s TLAC proposal and requirements that may be enacted by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC to facilitate the orderly resolution of G-SIBs, may make more uncertain recoveries by creditors of the parent holding company in the event of its resolution.  

      14    

Table of Contents 

U.S. Subsidiary Banks.  

U.S. Banking Institutions. MSBNA, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers commercial lending and certain retail securities-based lending services in addition to deposit products. Certain foreign exchange activities are also conducted by MSBNA. MSBNA is an FDIC-insured national bank that is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC.  

MSPBNA offers certain mortgage and other secured lending products primarily for customers of its affiliate retail broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC (“MSSB LLC”). MSPBNA also offers certain deposit products, as well as prime brokerage custody services. MSPBNA is an FDIC-insured national bank that is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC.  

Effective October 1, 2013, the lending limits applicable to the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks were revised to take into account credit exposure arising from derivative transactions, securities lending, securities borrowing and repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements with third parties.  

In September 2014, the OCC issued final risk governance guidelines to establish heightened standards for large national banks, and the guidelines apply to both MSBNA and MSPBNA. The final guidelines set minimum standards for the design and implementation of a bank’s risk governance framework and the oversight of that framework by a bank’s board of directors.  

Prompt Corrective Action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” (“PCA”) with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Current PCA regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as MSBNA or MSPBNA and not to their parent holding companies. The Federal Reserve is, however, subject to limitations, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level. In addition, as described above, under the systemic risk regime, the Company will become subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. The Dodd-Frank Act also formalized the requirement that bank holding companies, such the Company, serve as a source of strength to their U.S. bank subsidiaries and commit resources to support these subsidiaries in the event such subsidiaries are in financial distress.  

Transactions with Affiliates. The Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on “covered transactions” with any affiliates. Covered transactions include any extension of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions with an affiliate. These restrictions limit the total amount of credit exposure that the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates, as well as collateral requirements, and they require all such transactions to be made on market terms. Effective July 2012, derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks and their affiliates became subject to these restrictions. These reforms place limits on the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks’ ability to engage in derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions with other affiliates of the Company. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will propose a rulemaking to implement these more recent restrictions, but has not yet done so.  

In addition, the Volcker Rule generally prohibits covered transactions between (i) the Company or any of its affiliates and (ii) covered funds for which the Company or any of its affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor or other covered funds organized and offered by the Company or any of its affiliates pursuant to specific exemptions in the Volcker Rule.  

FDIC Regulation. An FDIC–insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. As commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institutions, each of MSBNA and MSPBNA could be responsible for any loss to the FDIC from the failure of the other. In  

    15      

Table of Contents 

 addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of FDIC insurance. In 2010, the FDIC adopted a restoration plan to replenish the reserve fund over a multi-year period. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, some of the restoration must be paid for exclusively by large depository institutions, including MSBNA, and FDIC deposit insurance assessments are calculated using a new methodology that generally favors banks that are mostly funded by deposits.  

Institutional Securities and Wealth Management.  

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation. The Company’s primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer’s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators.  

In addition, MSSB LLC is a registered investment adviser with the SEC. MSSB LLC’s relationship with its investment advisory clients is subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed on investment advisors under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder as well as various state securities laws. These laws and regulations generally grant the SEC and other supervisory bodies with broad administrative powers to address non-compliance, including the power to restrict or limit MSSB LLC from carrying on its investment advisory and other asset management activities. Other sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain activities for specified periods of time or for specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines.  

The Dodd-Frank Act includes various provisions that affect the regulation of broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. For example, the SEC is authorized to adopt a fiduciary duty applicable to broker-dealers when providing personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers. The U.S. Department of Labor is considering revisions to regulations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 that could subject broker-dealers to a fiduciary duty and prohibit specified transactions for a wider range of customer interactions. These developments may impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential liabilities.  

Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Federal Reserve’s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under FINRA and other self-regulatory organization rules. In many cases, the Company’s broker-dealer subsidiaries’ margin policies are more stringent than these rules.  

As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of the Company are subject to the SEC’s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Many non-U.S. regulatory authorities and exchanges also have rules relating to capital and, in some cases, liquidity requirements that apply to the Company’s non-U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. These rules are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also “—Financial Holding Company—Consolidated Supervision” and “—Financial Holding Company—Capital and Liquidity Standards” above. Rules  

      16    

Table of Contents 

 of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations’ assets.  

Compliance with regulatory capital requirements may limit the Company’s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements restrict the Company’s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt, or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In addition, such rules may require the Company to make substantial capital infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules.  

MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”), which provides protection for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer. SIPC protects customers’ eligible securities held by a member broker-dealer up to $500,000 per customer for all accounts in the same capacity subject to a limitation of $250,000 for claims for uninvested cash balances. To supplement this SIPC coverage, each of MS&Co. and MSSB LLC have purchased additional protection for the benefit of their customers in the form of an annual policy issued by certain underwriters and various insurance companies that provides protection for each eligible customer above SIPC limits subject to an aggregate firmwide cap of $1 billion with no per client sublimit for securities and a $1.9 million per client limit for the cash portion of any remaining shortfall. As noted under “—Financial Holding Company—Systemic Risk Regime” above, the Dodd-Frank Act contains special provisions for the orderly liquidation of covered financial institutions (which could potentially include MS&Co. and/or MSSB LLC). While these provisions are generally intended to provide customers of covered broker-dealers with protections at least as beneficial as they would enjoy in a broker-dealer liquidation proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act, the details and implementation of such protections are subject to further rulemaking.  

The SEC adopted rules requiring broker-dealers to maintain risk management controls and supervisory procedures with respect to providing access to securities markets, which became fully effective in 2012. In July 2012, the SEC adopted a rule requiring the creation of a consolidated audit trail, which, when implemented, will require broker-dealers to report into one consolidated audit trail comprehensive information about every material event in the lifecycle of every quote, order, and execution in all exchange-listed stocks and options, and may ultimately be expanded to other instruments.  

It is possible that the SEC or self-regulatory organizations could propose or adopt additional market structure or other rules for equity and fixed income markets in the future. The provisions, new rules and proposals discussed above could result in increased costs and could otherwise adversely affect trading volumes and other conditions in the markets in which the Company operates.  

Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities. MS&Co., as a futures commission merchant, and MSSB LLC, as an introducing broker, are subject to net capital requirements of, and their activities are regulated by, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”), the National Futures Association (the “NFA”), a registered futures association, and various commodity futures exchanges. MS&Co. and MSSB LLC and certain of their affiliates are registered members of the NFA in various capacities. Rules and regulations of the CFTC, NFA and commodity futures exchanges address obligations related to, among other things, the segregation of customer funds and the holding of a part of a secured amount, the use by futures commission merchants of customer funds, recordkeeping and reporting obligations of futures commission merchants and introducing brokers, risk disclosure, risk management and discretionary trading. Under rules finalized by the CFTC in November 2013 and effective in January 2014, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are required to incorporate enhanced customer protections as part of their existing customer protection regime.  

    17      

Table of Contents 

MS&Co. and MSSB LLC have affiliates that are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other guidance. Under CFTC and NFA rules, commodity trading advisors who manage accounts and commodity pool operators that are registered with the NFA must distribute disclosure documents and maintain specified records relating to their activities, and commodity trading advisors and commodity pool operators have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they advise or operate. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships.  

The Company’s commodities activities are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. Terminal facilities and other assets relating to the Company’s commodities activities also are subject to environmental laws both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by the Company or locations to which the Company has sent wastes for disposal. See also “—Financial Holding Company—Scope of Permitted Activities” above.  

Derivatives Regulation. Through the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company faces a comprehensive U.S. regulatory regime for its activities in certain OTC derivatives. The regulation of “swaps” and “security-based swaps” (collectively, “Swaps”) in the U.S. is being, and will continue to be, effected and implemented through the CFTC, SEC and other agency regulations. The CFTC has completed the majority of its regulations in this area, most of which are in effect. The SEC has not yet adopted the majority of its Swaps regulations.  

Subject to certain limited exceptions, the Dodd-Frank Act requires central clearing of certain types of Swaps, public and regulatory reporting, and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or execution facilities. Reporting requirements for CFTC-regulated Swaps are now in effect and certain types of CFTC-regulated interest rate and index credit default swaps are subject to mandatory central clearing. Certain Swaps are also required to be traded on an exchange or execution facility.  

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the registration of “swap dealers” with the CFTC and “security-based swap dealers” with the SEC (collectively, “Swaps Entities”). Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries have registered with the CFTC as swap dealers and in the future additional subsidiaries may register with the CFTC. One or more subsidiaries of the Company will in the future be required to register with the SEC as security-based swap dealers.  

Swaps Entities are or will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime with new obligations for the Swaps activities for which they are registered, including new capital requirements, a new margin regime for uncleared Swaps and a new segregation regime for collateral of counterparties to uncleared Swaps. Swaps Entities are subject to additional duties, including, among others, internal and external business conduct and documentation standards with respect to their Swaps counterparties and recordkeeping.  

The specific parameters of some of these requirements for Swaps have been and continue to be developed through the CFTC, SEC and bank regulator rulemakings. In particular, in September 2014, the CFTC and the U.S. banking regulators re-proposed their rules on margin requirements for uncleared Swaps. The full impact on the Company of the U.S. agencies’ margin and capital requirements for Swaps Entities will not be known with certainty until the requirements are finalized. In December 2014, the CFTC re-opened the comment period on re-proposed rules that, if finalized as proposed, would limit positions in 28 agricultural, energy and metals commodities, including Swaps, futures and options that are economically equivalent to those commodity contracts. Through this re-proposal, the CFTC is taking steps to institute position limits that were previously finalized in November 2011 but were vacated by a federal court in September 2012.  

      18    

Table of Contents 

Although the full impact of U.S. derivatives regulation on the Company remains unclear, the Company has already, and will continue to, face increased costs and regulatory oversight due to the registration and regulatory requirements indicated above. Complying with the Swaps rules also has required, and will in the future require, the Company to change its Swaps businesses, and has required, and will in the future require, extensive systems and personnel changes. Compliance with Swap-related regulatory capital requirements may require the Company to devote more capital to its Swaps business.  

The European Union (“E.U.”) has adopted and implemented certain rules relating to the OTC derivatives market and these rules imposed regulatory reporting beginning in February 2014. The E.U. plans to impose central clearing requirements on OTC derivatives beginning in 2015 and has started reviewing and adopting determinations of equivalence of the regulatory regimes for central counterparties and trade repositories, and of risk mitigation requirements. In April 2014, E.U. regulators also proposed margin requirements for uncleared Swaps. In addition, other non-U.S. jurisdictions are in the process of adopting and implementing legislation emanating from the G-20 commitments that will require, among other things, the central clearing of certain OTC derivatives, mandatory reporting of derivatives and bilateral risk mitigation procedures for non-cleared trades. It remains unclear at present how the non-U.S. and U.S. derivatives regulatory regimes will interact.  

Credit Risk Retention. In October 2014, federal regulatory agencies issued final rules to implement the credit risk retention requirements of Section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which generally require securitizers of different types of asset-backed securitizations, including transactions backed by residential mortgages, commercial mortgages, and corporate, credit card and auto loans, to retain at least 5% of the credit risk of the assets being securitized. Compliance with respect to new securitization transactions backed by residential mortgages is required beginning December 24, 2015 and with respect to new securitization transactions backed by other types of assets beginning December 24, 2016. The Company continues to evaluate the final rules and assess their impact on its securitization activities.  

Non-U.S. Regulation. The Company’s Institutional Securities businesses also are regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which the Company maintains an office. Non-U.S. policy makers and regulators, including the European Commission and European Supervisory Authorities, continue to propose and adopt numerous market reforms, including those that may further impact the structure of banks, and formulate regulatory standards and measures that will be of relevance and importance to the Company’s European operations. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”), the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) and several securities and futures exchanges in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), including the London Stock Exchange and ICE Futures Europe, regulate the Company’s activities in the U.K.; the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) and the Deutsche Börse AG regulate its activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; Eidgenössische Finanzmarktaufsicht (the Financial Market Supervisory Authority) regulates its activities in Switzerland; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange, regulate its activities in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.  

Regulators in the U.K., E.U. and other major jurisdictions have also finalized or are in the process of proposing or finalizing risk-based capital, leverage capital, liquidity, banking structural reforms and other regulatory standards applicable to certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions. For example, the Company’s primary broker-dealer in the U.K., MSIP, is subject to regulation and supervision by the PRA with  

    19      

Table of Contents 

 respect to prudential matters. As a prudential regulator, the PRA seeks to promote the safety and soundness of the firms that it regulates and to minimize the adverse effects that such firms may have on the stability of the U.K. financial system. The PRA has broad legal authority to establish prudential and other standards to pursue these objectives, including approvals of relevant regulatory models, as well as to bring public and non-public disciplinary actions against regulated firms to address noncompliance with such standards. MSIP is also regulated and supervised by the FCA with respect to business conduct matters. On January 1, 2014, MSIP became subject to the Capital Requirements Regulation and Capital Requirements Directive (collectively, “CRD IV”), which implements the Basel III and other regulatory requirements for E.U. credit institutions and investment firms, including MSIP. European Market Infrastructure Regulation introduces new requirements regarding the central clearing and reporting of derivatives. In addition, the E.U. Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (“BRRD”) has established a recovery and resolution framework for E.U. credit institutions and investment firms, including MSIP. E.U. Member States were required to apply provisions implementing the BRRD as of January 1, 2015, subject to certain exemptions. A recast Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID II”) and a new Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation (“MiFIR”) have also been adopted and will introduce various trading and market infrastructure reforms in the E.U. MiFID II and MiFIR are to apply from January 3, 2017, subject to certain exemptions.  

Investment Management.  

Many of the subsidiaries engaged in the Company’s asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Many aspects of the Company’s asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the Company from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on the Company engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. In order to facilitate its asset management business, the Company owns a registered U.S. broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc., which acts as distributor to the Morgan Stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds managed by the Company’s Investment Management business segment. A number of legal entities within the Company’s Investment Management business are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other guidance. See also “—Institutional Securities and Wealth Management—Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation” and “—Institutional Securities and Wealth Management—Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities” above.  

As a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company’s asset management activities will be subject to certain additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds), restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other relationships with, “covered funds,” as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to certain limited exemptions, and certain rules and regulations regarding trading activities, including trading in derivatives markets. Many of these new requirements may increase the expenses associated with the Company’s asset management activities and/or reduce the investment returns the Company is able to generate for its asset management clients.  

The Company is continuing its review of its asset management activities that may be affected by the Volcker Rule and is taking steps to establish the necessary compliance programs to help ensure and monitor compliance with the Volcker Rule. The Company had already taken certain steps to comply with the Volcker Rule prior to the issuance of the final regulations, including, for example, launching new funds that are designed to comply with the Volcker Rule. Given the complexity of the new framework, the full impact of the Volcker Rule is still uncertain, and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight. See also “—Financial Holding Company—Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule.”  

      20    

Table of Contents 

The Company’s Investment Management business is also regulated outside the U.S. For example, the FCA is the primary regulator of the Company’s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates the Company’s business in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission regulates the Company’s business in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates the Company’s business in Singapore.  

Anti-Money Laundering and Economic Sanctions.  

The Company’s Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. In the U.S., for example, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding company subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and mutual funds to implement AML programs, verify the identity of customers that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. Outside the U.S., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require designated types of financial institutions to implement AML programs. The Company has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. The Company has also implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which target foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to U.S. foreign policy, national security or economic interests, and as applicable similar sanctions programs imposed by foreign governments or global or regional multilateral organizations such as the United Nations Security Council and the E.U. Council.  

Anti-Corruption.  

The Company is subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. The Company has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations.  

Protection of Client Information.  

Many aspects of the Company’s businesses are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the E.U. Data Protection Directive and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. The Company has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.  

Research.  

Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions. In November 2014, FINRA proposed to amend its equity research rules and adopt new rules for debt research. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with U.S. federal and state regulators (to which the Company is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.  

Compensation Practices and Other Regulation.  

The Company’s compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. In particular, the Company is subject to the Federal Reserve’s guidance that is designed to help ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations’ safety  

    21      

Table of Contents 

 and soundness. The scope and content of the Federal Reserve’s policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and may change based on findings from its peer review process, and the Company expects that these policies will evolve over a number of years.  

The Company is subject to the compensation-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, which may impact its compensation practices. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, federal regulators, including the Federal Reserve, must prescribe regulations to require covered financial institutions, including the Company, to report the structures of all of their incentive-based compensation arrangements and prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by providing employees, directors or principal shareholders with compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the covered financial institution. In April 2011, seven federal agencies, including the Federal Reserve, jointly proposed an interagency rule implementing this requirement. Further, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC must direct listing exchanges to require companies to implement policies relating to disclosure of incentive-based compensation that is based on publicly reported financial information and the clawback of such compensation from current or former executive officers following certain accounting restatements.  

In addition to the guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve and referenced above, the Company’s compensation practices may also be impacted by other regulations, including those relating to the E.U. CRD IV, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, the fifth Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities Directive, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and the future second Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation. The Company’s compensation practices with respect to certain employees whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of the Company’s E.U. operations are subject to the CRD IV and related E.U. and local Member State regulations, including, amongst others, a cap on the ratio of variable remuneration to fixed remuneration and other variable remuneration restrictions. In the U.K., the remuneration of certain employees of banks and other firms is governed by the Remuneration Codes in the PRA and FCA Handbooks, including since January 1, 2014, provisions that implement the CRD IV as well as additional U.K. requirements.  

For a discussion of certain risks relating to the Company’s regulatory environment, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.  

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.  

The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of March 2, 2015 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.  

Gregory J. Fleming (52). Executive Vice President (since February 2010), President of Investment Management (since February 2010) and President of Wealth Management of Morgan Stanley (since January 2011). President of Research of Morgan Stanley (February 2010 to January 2011). Senior Research Scholar at Yale Law School and Distinguished Visiting Fellow of the Center for the Study of Corporate Law at Yale Law School (January 2009 to December 2009). President of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (“Merrill Lynch”) (February 2008 to January 2009). Co-President of Merrill Lynch (May 2007 to February 2008). Executive Vice President and Co-President of the Global Markets and Investment Banking Group of Merrill Lynch (August 2003 to May 2007).  

James P. Gorman (56). Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). President and Chief Executive Officer (January 2010 through December 2011) and member of the Board of Directors (since January 2010). Co-President (December 2007 to December 2009) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief Operating Officer of Wealth Management (February 2006 to April 2008).  

Eric F. Grossman (48). Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). Global Head of Legal (September 2010 to January 2012). Global Head of Litigation (January 2006 to  

      22    

Table of Contents 

 September 2010) and General Counsel of the Americas (May 2009 to September 2010). General Counsel of Wealth Management (November 2008 to September 2010). Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP (June 2001 to December 2005).  

Keishi Hotsuki (52). Executive Vice President (since May 2014) and Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2011). Interim Chief Risk Officer (January 2011 to May 2011) and Head of Market Risk Department (March 2008 to April 2014). Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (since May 2010). Global Head of Market Risk Management at Merrill Lynch (June 2005 to September 2007).  

Colm Kelleher (57). Executive Vice President (since October 2007), President of Institutional Securities (since January 2013) and of Head of International (since January 2011) of Morgan Stanley. Co-President of Institutional Securities (January 2010 to December 2012). Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006).  

Ruth Porat (57). Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Vice Chairman of Investment Banking (September 2003 to December 2009). Global Head of Financial Institutions Group (September 2006 to December 2009) and Chairman of the Financial Sponsors Group (July 2004 to September 2006) within Investment Banking.  

James A. Rosenthal (61). Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2011). Head of Corporate Strategy (January 2010 to May 2011). Chief Operating Officer of Wealth Management (January 2010 to August 2011). Head of Firmwide Technology and Operations of Morgan Stanley (March 2008 to January 2010). Chief Financial Officer of Tishman Speyer (May 2006 to March 2008).  

    23      

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.