Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Introduction.  

Morgan Stanley, a financial holding company, is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley” or the “Company” mean Morgan Stanley (the “Parent”) together with its consolidated subsidiaries.  

A brief summary of the activities of each of the Company’s business segments is as follows:  

Institutional Securities provides financial advisory and capital-raising services, including: advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; and investment activities.  

Wealth Management provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; and retirement services; and engages in fixed income trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading or investments in such securities.  

Investment Management provides a broad array of investment strategies that span the risk/return spectrum across geographies, asset classes, and public and private markets to a diverse group of clients across the institutional and intermediary channels as well as high net worth clients.  

The results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including: the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, currency, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets and energy markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”)), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), policies (including fiscal and monetary), and legal and regulatory actions in the United States of America (“U.S.”) and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices (including oil prices), interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to the Company’s unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of the Company’s acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements; the Company’s reputation and the general perception of the financial services industry; inflation, natural disasters, pandemics and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; the effectiveness of the Company’s risk management policies; technological changes and risks and cybersecurity risks (including cyber attacks and business continuity risks); or a combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the Company’s businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. These factors also may have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the Company’s business, see “Business—Competition” and “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A and “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein.  

The discussion of the Company’s results of operations below may contain forward-looking statements. These statements, which reflect management’s beliefs and expectations, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company’s future results, see “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, “Business—Competition” and  

    55      

Table of Contents 

 “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A and “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein.  

See Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for a discussion of its discontinued operations.  

      56    

Table of Contents 

Executive Summary.  

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    57      

Table of Contents 

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts)—(Continued).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

      58    

Table of Contents 

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts)—(Continued).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

N/M—Not Meaningful  

N/A—Not Applicable  

EMEA—Europe, Middle East and Africa  

DVA—Debt Valuation Adjustment represents the change in the fair value of certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings resulting from the fluctuation in the Company’s credit spreads and other credit factors.  

 (1) On October 1, 2014, the Managed Futures business was transferred from the Company’s Wealth Management business segment to the Company’s Investment Management business segment. All prior-period amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

 (2) See Notes 2, 3 and 15 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information on redeemable and nonredeemable noncontrolling interests.  

 (3) See Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information on discontinued operations.  

 (4) For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”), see Note 16 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

 (5) Regional net revenues reflect the regional view of the Company’s consolidated net revenues, on a managed basis. For a further discussion regarding the geographic methodology for net revenues, see Note 21 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

 (6) Pre-tax profit margin is a non-generally accepted accounting principle (“non-GAAP”) financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess operating performance. Percentages represent income from continuing operations before income taxes as a percentage of net revenues.  

 (7) For a discussion of the effective income tax rate, see “Overview of 2014 Financial Results” herein and Note 20 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

    59      

Table of Contents 

 (8) The computation of average common equity for each business segment is determined using the Company’s Required Capital framework, an internal capital adequacy measure (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements—Required Capital” herein). Average common equity for each business segment is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess capital adequacy.  

 (9) The calculation of each business segment’s return on average common equity uses income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of each business segment’s average common equity. The return on average common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess operating performance. The effective tax rates used in the computation of business segments’ return on average common equity were determined on a separate legal entity basis. To determine the return on consolidated average common equity, excluding the impact of DVA, also a non-GAAP financial measure, both the numerator and the denominator were adjusted to exclude the impact of DVA. The impact of DVA in 2014, 2013 and 2012 was 0.8%, (0.6)% and (5.1)%, respectively.  

 (10) Average tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess capital adequacy. For a discussion of tangible common equity, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Management” herein.  

 (11) Return on average tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess capital adequacy. The calculation of return on average tangible common equity uses income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of average tangible common equity. To determine the return on average tangible common equity, excluding the impact of DVA, also a non-GAAP financial measure, both the numerator and the denominator were adjusted to exclude the impact of DVA. The impact of DVA in 2014, 2013 and 2012 was 0.8%, (0.7)% and (5.8)%, respectively.  

 (12) From time to time, the Company may disclose certain “non-GAAP financial measures” in the course of its earnings releases, earnings conference calls, financial presentations and otherwise. For these purposes, “U.S. GAAP” refers to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) defines a “non-GAAP financial measure” as a numerical measure of historical or future financial performance, financial positions, or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts or is subject to adjustments that effectively exclude, or include, amounts from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company are provided as additional information to investors in order to provide them with further transparency about, or as an alternative method for assessing, the Company’s financial condition and operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, U.S. GAAP, and may be different from or inconsistent with non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Whenever the Company refers to a non-GAAP financial measure, the Company will also generally present the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, along with a reconciliation of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measure and the U.S. GAAP financial measure.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (13) Amounts include loans held for investment and loans held for sale and exclude loans at fair value which are included in Trading assets in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition (see Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

 (14) Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. (“MSBNA”) and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (“MSPBNA”) represent the Company’s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries (“U.S. Subsidiary Banks”) and amounts exclude transactions with affiliated entities.  

 (15) Book value per common share equals common shareholders’ equity of $64,880 million at December 31, 2014 and $62,701 million at December 31, 2013 divided by common shares outstanding of 1,951 million at December 31, 2014 and 1,945 million at December 31, 2013.  

 (16) Tangible book value per common share equals tangible common equity of $55,138 million at December 31, 2014 and $52,828 million at December 31, 2013 divided by common shares outstanding of 1,951 million at December 31, 2014 and 1,945 million at December 31, 2013. Tangible book value per common share is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy.  

 (17)  Global Liquidity Reserve, which is held within the Company’s bank and non-bank legal entities, is composed of highly liquid and diversified cash and cash equivalents and unencumbered securities. Eligible unencumbered securities include U.S. government securities,  

      60    

Table of Contents 

     U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, non-U.S. government securities and other highly liquid investment-grade securities. For a discussion of Global Liquidity Reserve, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity Risk Management Framework—Global Liquidity Reserve” herein.  

 (18) The Company calculates the average Global Liquidity Reserve based upon daily amounts.  

 (19) The Company calculates its applicable risk-based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets (“RWAs”) in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). For a further discussion of the Company’s methods for calculating its risk-based capital ratios and RWAs, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein.  

 (20) Beginning with the first quarter of 2014, Tier 1 leverage ratio equals Tier 1 capital (calculated under U.S. Basel III Transitional rules) divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, transitional intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, certain financial equity investments and other adjustments). In 2013, Tier 1 leverage ratio equaled Tier 1 capital (calculated under U.S. Basel I) divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets, deferred tax assets, and financial and non-financial equity investments).  

 (21) Revenues and expenses associated with these assets are included in the Company’s Wealth Management and Investment Management business segments.  

 (22) Amounts exclude the Company’s Investment Management business segment’s proportionate share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.  

    61      

Table of Contents 

Global Market and Economic Conditions.  

During 2014, global market and economic conditions displayed a continued but choppy improvement from 2013, characterized by continued global central bank accommodations, low inflation, geopolitical tensions, and sharply lower oil prices during the final months of the year. The U.S. economy which started 2014 with a weather-impacted first quarter decline in gross domestic product (“GDP”) ended the year with an annualized GDP growth rate of 2.4%. The Eurozone economy by contrast stalled in the second quarter before showing some signs of improvement in the second half of the year, as the annexation of the Crimea region in Ukraine by Russia and conflict in Eastern Ukraine raised anxiety and tensions which weighed on regional economies. In the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), GDP growth continued to accelerate, with an annualized growth rate of 2.6% for all of 2014, while the Japanese economy saw substantial volatility surrounding a national sales tax hike to 8% from 5% in April, resulting in a GDP growth rate near zero for all of 2014. In China, the government continued reforms to change the structure of the Chinese economy, accepting a somewhat less rapid growth pace as deleveraging is pursued, but targeted easing measures by the Chinese central bank supported a 7.4% gain in real GDP in 2014.  

In the U.S., major equity market indices ended the year significantly higher compared with year-end 2013, with the S&P 500 stock index posting a gain of 11.4% for the year, supported by the relative strength of the U.S. economy. The growth in U.S. GDP was driven by an improving labor market, with the unemployment rate dropping below 6% for the first time in six years to end 2014 at 5.6%, a 1.1% decline from the end of 2013. Average wage growth remained tepid, however, and inflation continued to run well below the Federal Reserve’s 2% target. Household spending growth accelerated markedly over the course of 2014, supported by strong job growth and lower energy prices, while business investment also accelerated during the second and third quarters of 2014, but showed signs of sluggishness during the fourth quarter as uncertainty about global economic conditions increased. The recovery in the housing market remained slow, hampered by tight mortgage lending conditions. In October 2014, the Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) of the Federal Reserve ended its quantitative easing program with its final $15 billion reduction in monthly bond purchases. At December 31, 2014, the federal funds target rate remained between 0.00% and 0.25%, while the discount rate remained at 0.75%. At its December 2014 meeting, the FOMC announced that it would be patient in beginning to normalize its stance on monetary policy.  

In Europe, major equity market indices ended the year lower compared with year-end 2013 except for the DAX 30 index in Germany, which ended the year with a 2.7% gain. Euro-area GDP growth turned positive after declining in 2013, but the recovery was sluggish at less than 1% for 2014, and market-based measures of Eurozone inflation expectations fell well below levels consistent with the European Central Bank’s (“ECB”) 2% inflation target, prompting an announcement of additional easing measures in September 2014, including a cut in the benchmark repurchase rate to 0.05% from 0.25% and in the deposit facility rate to negative 0.20% from 0.00% at the end of 2013, and the announcement of asset-backed securities and covered bond purchase programs. In January 2015, the ECB announced an expanded asset purchase program involving the purchase of Euro-area sovereign debt. In the U.K., stronger GDP growth in 2014 was supported by faster growth in consumer spending, business investment and residential investment, but export performance was sluggish. The U.K. also continued to experience significant declines in unemployment, while average wage gains also remained tepid, and inflation fell below the Bank of England’s (“BOE”) target. At December 31, 2014, the BOE’s benchmark interest rate was 0.5%, which was unchanged from December 31, 2013, and BOE asset purchases remained at £375 billon, also unchanged from December 31, 2013.  

Major equity market indices in Asia ended 2014 higher compared with year-end 2013, except for the KOSPI Composite index in the Republic of Korea, which ended the year down 4.8%. Japan’s economy resumed growth after the mid-year recession following the April 2014 tax increase, with support from a substantial increase in asset purchases announced by the Bank of Japan in October 2014 and strong exports. China’s annual rate of economic growth has slowed slightly but remained above 7%, which is strong compared with the rest of the world. Nonetheless, the Chinese economy still faces downward pressure, and its government plans to respond with targeted measures to boost growth. The Chinese government’s announced reforms reflect its intention to  

      62    

Table of Contents 

 restructure its economy away from reliance on exports and investments and toward more sustainable growth driven by domestic consumption.  

Overview of 2014 Financial Results.  

Consolidated Results. The Company recorded net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $3,467 million on net revenues of $34,275 million in 2014 compared with net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $2,932 million on net revenues of $32,493 million in 2013.  

Net revenues in 2014 included positive revenues due to the impact of DVA of $651 million compared with negative revenues of $681 million in 2013. In addition, net revenues in 2014 included a charge of approximately $468 million related to the implementation of Funding Valuation Adjustments (“FVA”) (see “Critical Accounting Policies” herein and Note 2 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8), which was recorded in the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment. Non-interest expenses were $30,684 million in 2014 compared with $27,935 million in 2013. Compensation expenses increased 10% to $17,824 million in 2014 compared with $16,277 million in 2013, primarily driven by compensation expense adjustments of approximately $1.1 billion related to changes in discretionary incentive compensation deferrals (see “Business Segments—Compensation Expense—Discretionary Incentive Compensation” herein). Non-compensation expenses increased 10% to $12,860 million in 2014 compared with $11,658 million in 2013, primarily due to higher legal expenses.  

Diluted EPS and diluted EPS from continuing operations were $1.60 and $1.61, respectively, in 2014 compared with $1.36 and $1.38, respectively, in 2013. The diluted EPS calculation for 2013 included a negative adjustment of approximately $151 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, related to the purchase of the retail securities joint venture between the Company and Citigroup Inc. (“Citi”) (the “Wealth Management JV”), which was completed in June 2013.  

Excluding the impact of DVA, net revenues were $33,624 million and diluted EPS from continuing operations were $1.39 per share in 2014 compared with $33,174 million and $1.61 per share, respectively, in 2013. The presentation of net revenues excluding the impact of DVA is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers useful for the Company and investors to allow further comparability of period-to-period operating performance.  

The Company’s effective tax rate from continuing operations was a benefit of 2.5% and a provision of 19.8% for 2014 and 2013, respectively. The results for 2014 and 2013 included discrete net tax benefits of $2,226 million and $407 million, respectively. Excluding these discrete net tax benefits, the effective tax rates from continuing operations for 2014 and 2013 would have been 59.5% and 28.7%, respectively. The increase in the tax rate is mainly attributable to higher non-deductible expenses related to litigation and regulatory matters and, to a lesser extent, the geographic mix of earnings. For a discussion of the net discrete tax benefits, see “Other Matters—Income Tax Matters” herein.  

Institutional Securities. Income (loss) from continuing operations before taxes was $(58) million in 2014 compared with $946 million in 2013. Net revenues for 2014 were $16,871 million compared with $15,519 million in 2013. The results in 2014 included positive revenues due to the impact of DVA of $651 million compared with negative revenues of $681 million in 2013. Investment banking revenues increased 19% from 2013 to $5,203 million in 2014, reflecting increases across equity and fixed income underwriting and advisory revenues. Equity sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, increased 4% from 2013 to $6,903 million in 2014, primarily due to higher revenues in the prime brokerage business driven by higher client balances partially offset by a decrease in derivatives revenues, reflecting unfavorable volatility movement. Excluding the impact of DVA, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues decreased 10% from 2013 to $3,795 million in 2014 as lower fixed income product results, which included a charge of $466 million related to the implementation of FVA, were partially offset by higher commodity net revenues. Non-interest expenses increased 16% from $14,573 million in 2013 to $16,929 million in 2014, primarily due to  

    63      

Table of Contents 

 higher non-compensation expenses, reflecting increased legal expenses related to certain legacy residential mortgage matters, and higher compensation expense (see “Other Matters—Legal” herein and “Contingencies—Legal” in Note 13 to the Company’s financial statements in Item 8 and “Business Segments—Compensation Expense—Discretionary Incentive Compensation” herein).  

Wealth Management. Income from continuing operations before taxes was $2,985 million in 2014 compared with $2,604 million in 2013. Net revenues were $14,888 million in 2014 compared with $14,143 million in 2013. Transactional revenues, consisting of Investment banking, Trading, and Commissions and fees, decreased 10% from 2013 to $3,875 million in 2014. Investment banking revenues decreased 14% from 2013 to $791 million in 2014, primarily due to lower levels of underwriting activity in closed-end funds partially offset by higher revenues from structured products. Trading revenues decreased 18% from 2013 to $957 million in 2014, primarily due to lower gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and lower revenues from fixed income products. Commissions and fees revenues decreased 4% from 2013 to $2,127 million in 2014, primarily due to lower equity, insurance and mutual fund activity. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 10% from 2013 to $8,345 million in 2014, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues partially offset by lower revenues from referral fees from the bank deposit program. Net interest increased 25% from 2013 to $2,339 million in 2014, primarily due to higher lending balances and growth in loans and lending commitments in Portfolio Loan Account (“PLA”) securities-based lending products. Non-interest expenses increased 3% from $11,539 million in 2013 to $11,903 million in 2014 primarily due to higher compensation expenses, which were partially offset by lower non-compensation expenses. Total client asset balances were $2,025 billion and total client liability balances were $51 billion at December 31, 2014. Balances in the bank deposit program were $137 billion at December 31, 2014, which included deposits held by Company-affiliated Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insured depository institutions of $128 billion at December 31, 2014. Client assets in fee-based accounts were $785 billion, or 39% of total client assets, at December 31, 2014. Fee-based client asset flows for 2014 were $58.8 billion compared with $51.9 billion in 2013.  

Investment Management. Income from continuing operations before taxes was $664 million in 2014 compared with $1,008 million in 2013. Net revenues were $2,712 million in 2014 compared with $3,059 million in 2013. The decrease in net revenues was primarily related to lower net investment gains and the non-recurrence of an additional allocation of fund income to the Company as general partner, in 2013 upon exceeding cumulative fund performance thresholds (“carried interest”) in the Company’s Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing businesses and lower gains from investments in the Company’s deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Results also reflected lower revenues from the prior year on investments in the Real Estate Investing business driven by the deconsolidation in the second quarter of 2014 of certain legal entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the Company. Non-interest expenses of $2,048 million in 2014 were essentially unchanged from 2013.  

Business Segments.  

Substantially all of the Company’s operating revenues and operating expenses are directly attributable to its business segments. Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective net revenues, non-interest expenses or other relevant measures.  

As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company’s consolidated results. Intersegment Eliminations also reflect the effect of fees paid by the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment to the Company’s Wealth Management business segment related to the bank deposit program.  

Net Revenues.   

Trading. Trading revenues include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as a market maker as well as gains and losses on the Company’s related positions.  

      64    

Table of Contents 

 Trading revenues include the realized gains and losses from sales of cash instruments and derivative settlements, unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company’s positions related to market- making activities, and gains and losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. In many markets, the realized and unrealized gains and losses from the purchase and sale transactions will include any spreads between bids and offers. Certain fees received on loans carried at fair value and dividends from equity securities are also recorded in this line item since they relate to market-making positions. Commissions received for purchasing and selling listed equity securities and options are recorded separately in the Commissions and fees line item. Other cash and derivative instruments typically do not have fees associated with them, and fees for related services are recorded in Commissions and fees.  

The Company often invests in investments or other financial instruments to economically hedge its obligations under its deferred compensation plans. Changes in value of such investments made by the Company are recorded in Trading revenues and Investments revenues. Expenses associated with the related deferred compensation plans are recorded in Compensation and benefits. Compensation expense is calculated based on the notional value of the award granted, adjusted for upward and downward changes in fair value of the referenced investment and is recognized ratably over the prescribed vesting period for the award. Generally, changes in compensation expense resulting from changes in fair value of the referenced investment will be offset by changes in fair value of the investments made by the Company. However, there may be a timing difference between the immediate revenue recognition of gains and losses on the Company’s investments and the deferred recognition of the related compensation expense over the vesting period.  

As a market maker, the Company stands ready to buy, sell or otherwise transact with customers under a variety of market conditions and to provide firm or indicative prices in response to customer requests. The Company’s liquidity obligations can be explicit and obligatory in some cases, and in others, customers expect the Company to be willing to transact with them. In order to most effectively fulfill its market-making function, the Company engages in activities across all of its trading businesses that include, but are not limited to: (i) taking positions in anticipation of, and in response to, customer demand to buy or sell and—depending on the liquidity of the relevant market and the size of the position—to hold those positions for a period of time; (ii) managing and assuming basis risk (risk associated with imperfect hedging) between customized customer risks and the standardized products available in the market to hedge those risks; (iii) building, maintaining and rebalancing inventory, through trades with other market participants, and engaging in accumulation activities to accommodate anticipated customer demand; (iv) trading in the market to remain current on pricing and trends; and (v) engaging in other activities to provide efficiency and liquidity for markets. Although not included in Trading revenues, interest income and expense are also impacted by market-making activities as debt securities held by the Company earn interest and securities are loaned, borrowed, sold with agreement to repurchase and purchased with agreement to resell.  

Investments. The Company’s investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. In some cases, such investments are required or are a necessary part of offering other products. The revenues recorded are the result of realized gains and losses from sales and unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company’s holdings as well as from investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Typically, there are no fee revenues from these investments. The sales restrictions on the investments relate primarily to redemption and withdrawal restrictions on investments in real estate funds, hedge funds and private equity funds, which include investments made in connection with certain employee deferred compensation plans (see Note 4 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Restrictions on interests in exchanges and clearinghouses generally include a requirement to hold those interests for the period of time that the Company is clearing trades on that exchange or clearinghouse. Additionally, there are certain investments related to assets held by consolidated real estate funds, which are primarily related to holders of noncontrolling interests.  

    65      

Table of Contents 

Commissions and Fees. Commission and fee revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter (“OTC”) equity securities, services related to sales and trading activities, and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees include fees associated with the management and supervision of assets, account services and administration, performance-based fees relating to certain funds, separately managed accounts, shareholder servicing and the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees in the Company’s Wealth Management business segment also include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees for investment management. Mutual fund distribution fees in the Company’s Wealth Management business segment are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.  

Asset management fees in the Company’s Investment Management business segment arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees in the Company’s Investment Management business segment are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.  

Net Interest. Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including Trading assets and Trading liabilities; investment securities, which include available for sale (“AFS”) securities and held to maturity (“HTM”) securities; securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell; securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase; loans; deposits; commercial paper and other short-term borrowings; long-term borrowings; trading strategies; customer activity in the Company’s prime brokerage business; and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell (“reverse repurchase agreements”) and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (“repurchase agreements”) and Securities borrowed and Securities loaned transactions may be entered into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest income on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions.  

Compensation Expense.   

The Company’s compensation and benefits expense includes accruals for base salaries and fixed allowances, formulaic programs, discretionary incentive compensation, amortization of deferred cash and equity awards, changes in fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments, and other items such as health and welfare benefits. The factors that drive compensation for the Company’s employees vary from quarter to quarter, segment to segment and within a segment. For certain revenue-producing employees in the Company’s Wealth Management and Investment Management business segments, their compensation is largely paid on the basis of formulaic payouts that link their compensation to revenues. Compensation for certain employees, including revenue-producing employees in the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment, may also include incentive compensation that is determined following the assessment of the Company, business unit and individual performance. Compensation for the Company’s remaining employees is largely fixed in nature (e.g., base salary, benefits, etc.).  

Discretionary Incentive Compensation. On December 1, 2014, the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee (“CMDS Committee”) of the Company’s Board of Directors approved an approach for awards of discretionary incentive compensation for the 2014 performance year to be granted in 2015 that would reduce the average deferral of such awards to an approximate baseline of 50%. Additionally, the CMDS  

      66    

Table of Contents 

 Committee approved the acceleration of vesting for certain outstanding deferred cash-based incentive compensation awards. The deferred cash-based incentive compensation awards subject to accelerated vesting will be distributed on their regularly scheduled future distribution dates and will continue to be subject to cancellation and clawback provisions. With its business strategy in place and greater financial stability, the Company is in a position to change the level of deferrals, making the Company’s practice more consistent with deferral levels at the Company’s global competitors. The increase in compensation and benefits expense for the Company and each of its business segments as a result of these actions was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Pro forma 2014 represents compensation and benefits expense at pre-adjustment accrual levels (i.e., at an approximate average baseline 74% deferral rate and with no acceleration of cash-based award vesting that was utilized for the first three quarters of 2014).  

 (2) Amounts reflect reduction in deferral level from an approximate average baseline of 74% to an approximate average baseline of 50%.  

 (3) Amounts represent acceleration of vesting for certain cash-based awards.  

    67      

Table of Contents 

INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

      68    

Table of Contents 

Supplemental Financial Information.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues are composed of fees from advisory services and revenues from the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans, net of syndication expenses.  

Investment banking revenues were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table presents the Company’s volumes of announced and completed mergers and acquisitions, equity and equity-related offerings, and fixed income offerings:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Source: Thomson Reuters, data at January 20, 2015. Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity-related offerings and fixed income offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent withdrawal or change in the value of a transaction.  

 (2) Amounts include transactions of $100 million or more. Announced mergers and acquisitions exclude terminated transactions.  

 (3) Amounts include Rule 144A and public common stock, convertible and rights offerings.  

 (4) Amounts include non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt. Amounts also include publicly registered and Rule 144A issues. Amounts exclude leveraged loans and self-led issuances.  

Sales and Trading Net Revenues. Sales and trading net revenues are composed of Trading revenues; Commissions and fees; Asset management, distribution and administration fees; and Net interest income (expenses). See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for information about the composition of the above-referenced components of sales and trading revenues. In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views these net revenues in the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to trading are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions and fees, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company’s positions, and other related expenses. See Note 12 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information related to gains (losses) on derivative instruments.  

    69      

Table of Contents 

Sales and trading net revenues were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales and trading net revenues by business were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Results in 2014 included a charge of $468 million related to the implementation of FVA (Equity: $2 million; Fixed income and commodities: $466 million).  

 (2) Amounts include net losses associated with costs related to the amount of liquidity held (“negative carry”), net gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term borrowings, and revenues from corporate loans and lending commitments.  

The following sales and trading net revenues results exclude the impact of DVA. The reconciliation of sales and trading, including equity sales and trading and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues, from a non-GAAP to a GAAP basis is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Sales and trading net revenues, including equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues that exclude the impact of DVA, are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company considers useful for the Company and investors to allow further comparability of period-to-period operating performance.  

 (2) Results in 2014 included a charge of $468 million related to the implementation of FVA (Equity: $2 million; Fixed income and commodities: $466 million).  

      70    

Table of Contents 

2014 Compared with 2013.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues for 2014 increased 19% from 2013, reflecting increases across equity and fixed income underwriting and advisory revenues. Overall, underwriting revenues of $3,569 million increased 16% from 2013. Equity underwriting revenues increased 28% to $1,613 million in 2014, reflecting increased activity with clients across all regions. Fixed income underwriting revenues of $1,956 million increased 8% from 2013, reflecting increased investment grade volumes and lower leveraged loan issuance. Advisory revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions (“M&A”) were $1,634 million in 2014, an increase of 25% from 2013, reflective of increased deal activity primarily driven by the Americas and Asia-Pacific regions. Industry-wide announced M&A volume activity for 2014 increased across all regions compared with 2013, primarily driven by cross-border activity.  

Sales and Trading Net Revenues.  Total sales and trading net revenues increased to $10,744 million in 2014 from $9,751 million in 2013, reflecting higher revenues in equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues partially offset by higher losses in other sales and trading net revenues.  

Equity. Equity sales and trading net revenues increased 9% from 2013 to $7,135 million in 2014. The results in equity sales and trading net revenues included positive revenues in 2014 of $232 million due to the impact of DVA compared with negative revenues of $78 million in 2013. Equity sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, increased 4% from 2013 to $6,903 million in 2014, primarily due to higher revenues in the prime brokerage business driven by higher client balances partially offset by a decrease in derivatives revenues, reflecting unfavorable volatility movement.  

Exclusive of a charge related to the implementation of FVA, equity sales and trading net revenues in 2014 reflected gains of $18 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ credit default swap (“CDS”) spreads and other factors compared with gains of $37 million in 2013. The Company’s CDS spreads and other factors did not have a material impact on equity sales and trading net revenues for 2014 and 2013. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other factors included gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Fixed Income and Commodities. Fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues increased 17% from 2013 to $4,214 million in 2014. Results in 2014 included positive revenues of $419 million due to the impact of DVA compared with negative revenues of $603 million in 2013. Excluding the impact of DVA, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues decreased 10% from 2013 to $3,795 million in 2014 as lower fixed income product results were partially offset by higher commodity net revenues. Net revenues in 2014 included a charge of $466 million related to the implementation of FVA. Fixed income product net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, decreased 15% from 2013 as higher results in interest rate products were offset by declines in credit products, which reflected an unfavorable market environment. Commodity net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, increased 34% from 2013, reflecting higher levels of client demand for structured transactions and volatility in natural gas and power partly offset by lower revenues in the oil related businesses in part attributable to TransMontaigne Inc., which was sold on July 1, 2014 (see “Global Oil Merchanting Business, CanTerm and TransMontaigne” herein).  

Exclusive of the FVA charge noted above, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues in 2014 also reflected gains of $23 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other factors compared with gains of $127 million in 2013. In addition, the Company also recorded losses of $55 million in 2014 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other factors compared with losses of $114 million in 2013. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other factors included gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Other. In addition to the equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues discussed above, sales and trading net revenues included other trading revenues, consisting of costs related to negative  

    71      

Table of Contents 

 carry, gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term borrowings and certain activities associated with the Company’s corporate lending activities.  

In 2014, other sales and trading recognized negative net revenues of $605 million compared with negative net revenues of $372 million in 2013. Results in both periods included losses related to negative carry and losses on economic hedges and other costs related to the Company’s long-term borrowings. Results in both periods also included net revenues from corporate loans and lending commitments, which were $325 million and $440 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively.  

Investments. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for further information on what is included in Investments.  

Net investment gains of $240 million were recognized in 2014 compared with net investment gains of $707 million in 2013. The decline reflects a gain recorded in the prior year related to the disposition of an investment in an insurance broker, lower gains on principal investments and from investments associated with the Company’s deferred compensation and co-investment plans.  

Other. Other revenues were $684 million in 2014 and 2013. The results in 2014 included income of $224 million, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (“MUMSS”) compared with income of $570 million in 2013 (see “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein and Note 22 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8). In 2014, Other revenues also included a $112 million gain on sale of the Company’s ownership stake in TransMontaigne Inc. (see “Global Oil Merchanting Business, CanTerm and TransMontaigne” herein), a gain on sale of a retail property space of $84 million and a $39 million gain related to the acquisition of NaturEner USA, LLC (see Note 9 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 16% in 2014 compared with 2013. The increase was primarily due to higher legal expenses and higher compensation expenses. Non-compensation expenses increased 18% in 2014 compared with 2013. The increase primarily reflected higher legal expenses related to certain legacy residential mortgage matters (see “Other Matters—Legal” herein and “Contingencies—Legal” in Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Compensation and benefits expenses increased 14% in 2014 from 2013. The increase was primarily due to the reduction of average deferral rates for discretionary incentive-based awards, an increase in amortization due to accelerated vesting of certain awards, and an increase in base salaries and fixed allowances partially offset by a decrease in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments (see also “Business Segments—Compensation Expense—Discretionary Incentive Compensation” herein).  

2013 Compared with 2012.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues in 2013 increased 11% from 2012, reflecting higher revenues from equity and fixed income underwriting transactions, partially offset by lower advisory revenues. Overall, underwriting revenues of $3,067 million increased 20% from 2012. Equity underwriting revenues increased 41% to $1,262 million in 2013, largely driven by increased client activity across Europe, Asia and the Americas. Fixed income underwriting revenues were $1,805 million in 2013, an increase of 8% from 2012, reflecting a continued favorable debt underwriting environment. Advisory revenues from M&A were $1,310 million in 2013, a decrease of 4% from 2012, reflective of the lower level of deal activity in 2013. Industry-wide announced M&A activity for 2013 was relatively flat compared with 2012, with increases in the Americas offset by decreases in EMEA.  

Sales and Trading Net Revenues. Total sales and trading net revenues increased to $9,751 million in 2013 from $6,673 million in 2012, reflecting higher revenues in equity and fixed income sales and trading net revenues and lower losses in other sales and trading net revenues.  

      72    

Table of Contents 

Equity. Equity sales and trading net revenues increased to $6,529 million in 2013 from $4,811 million in 2012. The results in equity sales and trading net revenues included negative revenues due to the impact of DVA of $78 million in 2013 compared with negative revenues of $1,130 million in 2012. Equity sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, increased 11% to $6,607 million in 2013 from 2012, reflecting strong performance across most products and regions, from higher client activity with particular strength in prime brokerage.  

In 2013, equity sales and trading net revenues also reflected gains of $37 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other factors compared with gains of $68 million in 2012. The Company also recorded losses of $15 million in 2013 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other factors compared with losses of $243 million in 2012. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other factors include gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Fixed Income and Commodities. Fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues were $3,594 million in 2013 compared with net revenues of $2,358 million in 2012. Results in 2013 included negative revenues of $603 million due to the impact of DVA compared with negative revenues of $3,272 million in 2012. Fixed income product net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, in 2013 decreased 26% over 2012, primarily reflecting lower levels of client activity across most products and significant revenue declines in interest rate products. Commodity net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, in 2013 decreased 38% over 2012, primarily reflecting lower levels of client activity across energy markets.  

In 2013, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues reflected gains of $127 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other factors compared with losses of $128 million in 2012 due to the widening of such spreads and other factors. The Company also recorded losses of $114 million in 2013 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other factors compared with losses of $482 million in 2012. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other factors include gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Other. Other sales and trading net losses were $372 million in 2013 compared with net losses of $496 million in 2012. The results in both periods included net losses related to negative carry and losses on economic hedges and other costs related to the Company’s long-term borrowings. The results in 2013 and 2012 were partially offset by revenues of $440 million and $740 million, respectively, associated with corporate loans and lending commitments.  

Investments. Net investment gains of $707 million were recognized in 2013 compared with net investment gains of $219 million in 2012. The increase primarily reflected a gain on the disposition of an investment in an insurance broker. The results in 2013 and 2012 included mark-to-market gains on principal investments in real estate funds and net gains from investments associated with the Company’s deferred compensation and co-investment plans.  

Other. Other revenues of $684 million were recognized in 2013 compared with other revenues of $279 million in 2012. The results in 2013 primarily included income of $570 million, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS, compared with income of $152 million in 2012 (see “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein and Note 22 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 15% in 2013 compared with 2012. The increase was primarily due to higher non-compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 2% in 2013, primarily due to a decrease in salaries due to lower headcount. Non-compensation expenses increased 35% in 2013 compared with 2012. The increase primarily reflected additions to legal expenses for litigation and investigations related to residential mortgage-backed securities and the credit crisis related matters (see “Other Matters—Legal” herein and “Contingencies—Legal” in Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

    73      

Table of Contents 

 Brokerage, clearing and exchange expenses increased 16% in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to higher volumes of activity. Information processing and communications expenses decreased 9% in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to lower technology costs. Professional services expenses increased 5% in 2013 compared with 2012 primarily due to higher consulting expenses related to the Company’s technology platform.  

Income Tax Items.  

In 2014, the Company recognized in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes an aggregate discrete net tax benefit of $839 million attributable to its Institutional Securities business segment. This included discrete tax benefits of: $612 million principally associated with remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination, and $237 million primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated. In addition, the Company’s Provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the business segment was impacted by approximately $900 million of tax provision as a result of non-deductible expenses related to litigation and regulatory matters.  

In 2013, the Company recognized in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes an aggregate discrete net tax benefit of $407 million attributable to its Institutional Securities business segment. This included discrete tax benefits of: $161 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with new information regarding the status of certain tax authority examinations; $92 million related to the establishment of a previously unrecognized deferred tax asset from a legal entity reorganization; $73 million that is attributable to tax planning strategies to optimize foreign tax credit utilization as a result of the anticipated repatriation of earnings from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries; and $81 million due to the retroactive effective date of the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (the “Relief Act”). For a further discussion of the Relief Act, see “Other Matters—Income Tax Matters” herein.  

In 2012, the Company recognized in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes a net tax benefit of $249 million attributable to its Institutional Securities business segment. This included a discrete tax benefit of $299 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with either the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or new information regarding the status of certain Internal Revenue Service examinations and an out-of-period net tax provision of $50 million, primarily related to the overstatement of deferred tax assets associated with repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in prior years. The Company has evaluated the effects of the understatement of the income tax provision both qualitatively and quantitatively, and concluded that it did not have a material impact on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements.  

Discontinued Operations.  

For a discussion about discontinued operations, see Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Nonredeemable Noncontrolling Interests.   

Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests primarily relate to Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.’s (“MUFG”) interest in Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. (see Note 22 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Global Oil Merchanting Business, CanTerm and TransMontaigne.  

On December 20, 2013, the Company and a subsidiary of Rosneft Oil Company (“Rosneft”) entered into a Purchase Agreement pursuant to which the Company would sell the global oil merchanting unit of its commodities division (the “global oil merchanting business”) to Rosneft. On December 22, 2014, the Company announced the termination of the sale due to the expiration of the Purchase Agreement on December 20, 2014. The Company continues to explore strategic options for its global oil merchanting business.  

      74    

Table of Contents 

On March 27, 2014, the Company completed the sale of Canterm Canadian Terminals Inc. (“CanTerm”), a public storage terminal operator for refined products with two distribution terminals in Canada. As a result of the Company’s level of continuing involvement with CanTerm, the results of CanTerm are reported as a component of continuing operations within the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment for all periods presented. The gain on sale was approximately $45 million.  

On July 1, 2014, the Company completed the sale of its ownership stake in TransMontaigne Inc., a U.S.-based oil storage, marketing and transportation company, as well as related physical inventory and the assumption of the Company’s obligations under certain terminal storage contracts, to NGL Energy Partners LP. The gain on sale, which was included in continuing operations, was approximately $112 million for 2014.  

    75      

Table of Contents 

WEALTH MANAGEMENT  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On October 1, 2014, the Managed Futures business was transferred from the Company’s Wealth Management business segment to the Company’s Investment Management business segment. All prior-period amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

      76    

Table of Contents 

Statistical Data (dollars in billions, except where noted).   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On October 1, 2014, the Managed Futures business was transferred from the Company’s Wealth Management business segment to the Company’s Investment Management business segment. All prior-period amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

 (2) Annual revenues per representative for 2014, 2013 and 2012 equal the Company’s Wealth Management business segment’s annual revenues divided by the average representative headcount in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

 (3) Client assets per representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end representative headcount.  

 (4) Fee-based asset flows include net new fee-based assets, net account transfers, dividends, interest and client fees and exclude cash management-related activity.  

 (5) Fee-based client assets represent the amount of assets in client accounts where the basis of payment for services is a fee calculated on those assets.  

 (6) Balances in the bank deposit program included deposits held by the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks of $128 billion and $104 billion at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively, with the remainder held at Citi-affiliated FDIC-insured depositories. See Note 3 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further discussion of the Company’s customer deposits held by Citi.  

 (7) Wealth Management U.S. Subsidiary Banks refers to the Company’s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries MSBNA and MSPBNA.  

Wealth Management JV. On June 28, 2013, the Company completed the purchase of the remaining 35% stake in the Wealth Management JV for $4.725 billion. As the 100% owner of the Wealth Management JV, the Company retains all of the related net income previously applicable to the noncontrolling interests in the Wealth Management JV and benefits from the termination of certain related debt and operating agreements with the Wealth Management JV partner.  

Concurrent with the acquisition of the remaining 35% stake in the Wealth Management JV, the deposit sweep agreement between Citi and the Company was terminated. During 2014 and 2013, $19 billion and $26 billion, respectively, of deposits held by Citi relating to the Company’s customer accounts were transferred to the Company’s depository institutions. At December 31, 2014, approximately $9 billion of additional deposits are scheduled to be transferred to the Company’s depository institutions on an agreed-upon basis through June 2015.  

For further information, see Note 3 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Net Revenues. The Company’s Wealth Management business segment’s net revenues are composed of Transactional, Asset management, Net interest and Other revenues. Transactional revenues include Investment banking, Trading, and Commissions and fees. Asset management revenues include Asset management, distribution and administration fees, and referral fees related to the bank deposit program. Net interest income  

    77      

Table of Contents 

 includes interest related to the bank deposit program, interest on AFS securities and HTM securities, interest on lending activities and other net interest. Other revenues include revenues from AFS securities and HTM securities, customer account services fees, other miscellaneous revenues and revenues from Investments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On October 1, 2014, the Managed Futures business was transferred from the Company’s Wealth Management business segment to the Company’s Investment Management business segment. All prior-period amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

2014 Compared with 2013.  

Transactional.  

Investment Banking. The Company’s Wealth Management business segment’s investment banking revenues include revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and unit trusts. Investment banking revenues decreased 14% from 2013 to $791 million in 2014, primarily due to lower levels of underwriting activity in closed-end funds partially offset by higher revenues from structured products.  

Trading. Trading revenues include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments, in which the Company acts as principal, gains and losses on the Company’s inventory positions, which are held primarily to facilitate customer transactions, and gains and losses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Trading revenues decreased 18% from 2013 to $957 million in 2014, primarily due to lower gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and lower revenues from fixed income products.  

Commissions and Fees. Commissions and fees revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commissions and fees revenues decreased 4% from 2013 to $2,127 million in 2014, primarily due to lower equity, insurance and mutual fund activity.  

Asset Management.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for information about the composition of Asset management, distribution and administration fees.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 10% from 2013 to $8,345 million in 2014, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues partially offset by lower revenues from referral fees from the bank deposit program. The referral fees for deposits placed with Citi-affiliated depository institutions declined to $81 million in 2014 from $240 million in 2013, reflecting the ongoing transfer of deposits to the Company from Citi.  

Balances in the bank deposit program were $137 billion at December 31, 2014 and $134 billion at December 31, 2013, which included deposits held by the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks of $128 billion at December 31, 2014 and $104 billion at December 31, 2013.  

      78    

Table of Contents 

Client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $785 billion and represented 39% of total client assets at December 31, 2014 compared with $697 billion and 37% at December 31, 2013, respectively. Total client asset balances increased to $2,025 billion at December 31, 2014 from $1,909 billion at December 31, 2013, primarily due to higher fee-based asset flows and the impact of market conditions. Fee-based client asset flows for 2014 were $58.8 billion compared with $51.9 billion in 2013.  

Net Interest.  

Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities. Net interest is driven by securities-based lending, mortgage lending, margin loans, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions and bank deposit program activity.  

Net interest increased 25% from 2013 to $2,339 million in 2014, primarily due to higher lending balances and growth in loans and lending commitments in PLA securities-based lending products. Total client liability balances increased to $51 billion at December 31, 2014 from $39 billion at December 31, 2013, primarily due to higher growth from PLA securities-based lending products and residential mortgage loans. The loans and lending commitments in the Company’s Wealth Management business segment have grown in 2014, and the Company expects this trend to continue. See “Other Matters—U.S. Subsidiary Banks Lending Activities” herein and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk—Lending Activities” in Item 7A.  

Other.  

Other revenues were $320 million in 2014 compared with $390 million in 2013. The results in 2014 included a $40 million gain on sale of a retail property space. The decrease in 2014 primarily reflected a gain on sale of the U.K. operation of the Global Stock Plan Services business in the prior-year period and lower account fees.  

Non-interest Expenses.   

Non-interest expenses increased 3% in 2014 from 2013. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 7% in 2014 from 2013, primarily due to a higher formulaic payout to Wealth Management representatives linked to higher net revenues, and an increase in base salaries. Non-compensation expenses decreased 6% in 2014 from 2013, primarily driven by non-recurring technology write-offs and an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investments funds in the prior-year period, lower intangible amortization and a lower FDIC assessment on deposits partially offset by a provision in the current year related to a rescission offer to Wealth Management clients who may not have received a prospectus for certain securities transactions as required.  

2013 Compared with 2012.  

Transactional.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues increased 11% from 2012 to $923 million in 2013, primarily due to higher levels of underwriting activity in closed-end funds and unit trusts.  

Trading. Trading revenues increased 12% from 2012 to $1,161 million in 2013, primarily due to gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and higher revenues from fixed income products.  

Commissions and Fees. Commissions and fees revenues increased 6% from 2012 to $2,209 million in 2013, primarily due to higher equity, mutual fund and alternatives activity.  

    79      

Table of Contents 

Asset Management.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% from 2012 to $7,571 million in 2013, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, partially offset by lower revenues from referral fees from the bank deposit program. The referral fees for deposits placed with Citi-affiliated depository institutions declined to $240 million in 2013 from $383 million in 2012. Lower revenues from the bank deposit program and the decrease in referral fees were both due to the ongoing transfer of deposits to the Company from Citi.  

Balances in the bank deposit program were $134 billion at December 31, 2013 from $131 billion at December 31, 2012, which included deposits held by the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks of $104 billion at December 31, 2013 and $72 billion at December 31, 2012.  

Client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $697 billion and represented 37% of total client assets at December 31, 2013 compared with $554 billion and 33% at December 31, 2012, respectively. Total client asset balances increased to $1,909 billion at December 31, 2013 from $1,696 billion at December 31, 2012, primarily due to the impact of market conditions and higher fee-based client asset flows. Effective from the quarter ended March 31, 2013, client assets also include certain additional non-custodied assets as a result of the completion of the Wealth Management JV platform conversion. Fee-based client asset flows for 2013 were $51.9 billion compared with $26.9 billion in 2012.  

Net Interest.  

Net interest increased 20% from 2012 to $1,875 million in 2013, primarily due to higher lending balances and growth in loans and lending commitments in PLA securities-based lending products. In addition, interest expense declined in 2013 due to the Company’s redemption of all the Class A Preferred Interests owned by Citi and its affiliates, in connection with the Company’s acquisition of 100% ownership of the Wealth Management JV effective at the end of the second quarter of 2013. Total client liability balances increased to $39 billion at December 31, 2013 from $31 billion at December 31, 2012. See “Other Matters—U.S. Subsidiary Banks’ Lending Activities” herein and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Item 7A.  

Other.  

Other revenues increased 25% from 2012 to $390 million in 2013, primarily due to a gain on sale of the U.K. operation of the Global Stock Plan Services business and realized gains on AFS securities.  

Non-interest Expenses.   

Non-interest expenses increased 1% in 2013 from 2012. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 6% in 2013 from 2012, primarily due to a higher formulaic payout to Wealth Management representatives linked to higher net revenues. Non-compensation expenses decreased 9% in 2013 from 2012, primarily driven by the absence of platform integration costs and non-recurring technology write-offs, partially offset by an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investments funds in 2013 (see Note 9 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Income Tax Items.  

In 2014, the Company recognized in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes a discrete tax benefit of $1,390 million, attributable to its Wealth Management business segment, due to the release of a deferred tax liability as a result of an internal restructuring to simplify the Company’s legal entity organization. For a further discussion of the discrete tax benefit, see “Other Matters —Income Tax Matters” herein.  

      80    

Table of Contents 

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On October 1, 2014, the Managed Futures business was transferred from the Company’s Wealth Management business segment to the Company’s Investment Management business segment. All prior-period amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

    81      

Table of Contents 

Statistical Data.  

The Company’s Investment Management business segment’s period-end and average assets under management or supervision were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On October 1, 2014, the Managed Futures business was transferred from the Company’s Wealth Management business segment to the Company’s Investment Management business segment. All prior-period amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

 (2) The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and funds of real estate funds.  

 (3) Amounts represent the Company’s Investment Management business segment’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.  

Activity in the Company’s Investment Management business segment’s assets under management or supervision during 2014, 2013 and 2012 was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On October 1, 2014, the Managed Futures business was transferred from the Company’s Wealth Management business segment to the Company’s Investment Management business segment. All prior-period amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

 (2) The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and funds of real estate funds.  

      82    

Table of Contents 

2014 Compared with 2013.  

Investment Banking. The Company’s Investment Management business segment generates investment banking revenues primarily from the placement of investments in real estate and merchant banking funds.  

Trading. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for information about the composition of Trading revenues.  

The Company recognized a loss of $19 million in 2014 compared with a gain of $41 million in 2013, which primarily reflected losses and gains, respectively, related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company.  

Investments. Real estate and private equity investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.  

The Company recorded net investment gains of $587 million in 2014 compared with gains of $1,056 million in 2013. The decrease in 2014 primarily related to lower net investment gains and the non-recurrence of carried interest in the Company’s Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing businesses and lower gains from investments in the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. 2014 results were also negatively impacted by the deconsolidation in the second quarter of 2014 of certain legal entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the Company.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. “See Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for information about the composition of Asset management, distribution and administration fees.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% from 2013 to $2,049 million in 2014. The increase primarily reflected higher management and administration revenues, as a result of higher average assets under management.  

The Company’s assets under management increased $26 billion from $377 billion at December 31, 2013 to $403 billion at December 31, 2014, reflecting positive net flows and market appreciation. The Company recorded net inflows of $24 billion in 2014, reflecting net customer inflows in liquidity, fixed income and alternatives funds, partially offset by outflows in equity and managed futures. The Company recorded net customer inflows of $12 billion in 2013, primarily in liquidity funds.  

Other. Other revenues were $106 million in 2014 as compared with $32 million in 2013. The results in 2014 included higher revenues associated with the Company’s minority investment in certain third-party investment managers and a $17 million gain on sale of a retail property space.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses of $2,048 million in 2014 were essentially unchanged from 2013. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 2% in 2014 due to the reduction in deferral rates for incentive-based compensation, an increase in amortization due to accelerated vesting of certain awards and increases in salaries partially offset by a decrease in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments (see also “Business Segments— Compensation Expense—Discretionary Incentive Compensation” herein). Non-compensation expenses decreased 3% in 2014, primarily due to an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investments funds in the prior-year period and the result of lower consumption taxes in the European Union.  

    83      

Table of Contents 

2013 Compared with 2012.  

Trading. The Company recognized gains of $41 million in 2013 compared with losses of $44 million in 2012. Trading results in 2013 primarily reflected gains related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Trading results in 2012 primarily reflected losses related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company as well as losses on hedges on certain investments.  

Investments. The Company recorded net investment gains of $1,056 million in 2013 compared with gains of $513 million in 2012. The increase in 2013 was primarily related to higher net investment gains predominantly within the Company’s Merchant Banking and Real Estate Investing businesses and higher gains on certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Results in 2013 also included the benefit of carried interest.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% from 2012 to $1,920 million in 2013. The increase primarily reflected higher management and administration revenues, primarily due to higher average assets under management, as well as higher performance fees.  

The Company’s assets under management increased $34 billion from $343 billion at December 31, 2012 to $377 billion at December 31, 2013, reflecting market appreciation and positive net flows. The Company recorded $22 billion in market appreciation and net inflows of $12 billion in 2013, primarily reflecting net customer inflows in liquidity funds. In 2012, the Company recorded $25 billion in market appreciation and $25 billion in net customer inflows, primarily in liquidity funds.  

Other. Other revenues were $32 million in 2013 as compared with $51 million in 2012. The results in 2013 included higher revenues associated with the Company’s minority investment in certain third-party investment managers. The results in 2012 included gains associated with the expiration of a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses were $2,051 million in 2013 as compared with $1,666 million in 2012. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 40% in 2013, primarily due to an increase in the fair value of deferred compensation plan referenced investments. Non-compensation expenses increased 5% in 2013, primarily due to higher brokerage and clearing, professional services expenses and an impairment expense related to certain intangible assets (management contracts) associated with alternative investments funds partially offset by lower information processing expenses.  

Income Tax Items.  

In 2012, the Company recognized in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes an out-of-period net tax provision of $107 million, attributable to its Investment Management business segment, primarily related to the overstatement of deferred tax assets associated with partnership investments in prior years. The Company has evaluated the effects of the understatement of the income tax provision both qualitatively and quantitatively and concluded that it did not have a material impact on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements.  

Nonredeemable Noncontrolling Interests.   

Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests are primarily related to the consolidation of certain real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Investment gains associated with these consolidated funds were $104 million, $151 million and $225 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests decreased in 2014, primarily due to the deconsolidation in the second quarter of 2014 of certain legal entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the Company.  

      84    

Table of Contents 

Accounting Development Updates.  

Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis.  

In February 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued an amendment update that changes the analysis that the Company must perform to determine whether it should consolidate certain types of legal entities. The Company is required to reevaluate its interests in legal entities in scope of the new guidance under the revised consolidation model. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this amendment update.  

Determining Whether the Host Contract in a Hybrid Financial Instrument Issued in the Form of a Share Is More Akin to Debt or to Equity.  

In November 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update requiring entities to determine the nature of the host contract in a hybrid financial instrument issued in the form of a share by considering the economic characteristics and risks of the entire hybrid financial instrument, including the embedded derivative feature that is being evaluated for separate accounting from the host contract, when evaluating whether the host contract is more akin to debt or equity and whether the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative feature are clearly and closely related to the host contract. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2016 and must be applied on a modified retrospective basis. The guidance may be applied on a full retrospective basis to all relevant prior periods and early adoption is permitted. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity’s Ability to Continue as a Going Concern.  

In August 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update that provides guidance on management’s responsibility in evaluating whether there is substantial doubt about a company’s ability to continue as a going concern and the related footnote disclosures. For each reporting period, management will be required to evaluate whether there are conditions or events that raise substantial doubt about a company’s ability to continue as a going concern within one year from the date the financial statements are issued. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2017. Early adoption is permitted. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Measuring the Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities of a Consolidated Collateralized Financing Entity.  

In August 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update to clarify the measurement upon initial consolidation and subsequent measurement of the financial assets and the financial liabilities of a collateralized financing entity when the reporting entity has determined that it is the primary beneficiary of the collateralized financing entity. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Accounting for Share-Based Payments When the Terms of an Award Provide That a Performance Target Could Be Achieved after the Requisite Service Period.  

In June 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update clarifying that entities should treat performance targets that could be met after the requisite service period of a share-based payment award as performance conditions that affect vesting. Therefore, an entity would not record compensation expense (measured as of the grant date) for an award where transfer to the employee is contingent upon satisfaction of the performance target until it becomes probable that the performance target will be met. The guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

    85      

Table of Contents 

Repurchase-to-Maturity Transactions, Repurchase Financings, and Disclosures.  

In June 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update requiring repurchase-to-maturity transactions be accounted for as secured borrowings consistent with the accounting for other repurchase agreements. This accounting update also requires separate accounting for a transfer of a financial asset executed contemporaneously with a repurchase agreement with the same counterparty (a repurchase financing), which will result in secured borrowing accounting for the repurchase agreement. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2015. In addition, new disclosures are required for sales of financial assets where the Company retains substantially all the exposure throughout the term and the collateral pledged and remaining maturity of repurchase and securities lending agreements, which are effective January 1, 2015, and April 1, 2015, respectively. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue from Contracts with Customers.  

In May 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update to clarify the principles of revenue recognition, to develop a common revenue recognition standard across all industries for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards and to provide enhanced disclosures for users of the financial statements. The core principle of this guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact of adopting this accounting standard update.  

Reclassification of Residential Real Estate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage Loans upon Foreclosure.  

In January 2014, the FASB issued an accounting update clarifying when an in-substance repossession or foreclosure occurs; that is, when a creditor should be considered to have received physical possession of residential real estate property collateralizing a consumer mortgage loan such that the loan receivable should be derecognized and the real estate property recognized. This guidance is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2015. This guidance can be applied using either a modified retrospective transition method or a prospective transition method. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

      86    

Table of Contents 

Other Matters.  

Legal.  

On February 25, 2015, the Company reached an agreement in principle with the United States Department of Justice, Civil Division and the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California, Civil Division (collectively, the “Civil Division”) to pay $2,600 million to resolve certain claims that the Civil Division indicated it intended to bring against the Company related to legacy residential mortgage matters. This agreement in principle resulted from very rapidly evolving deliberations with the Civil Division, including meetings on February 18 and 19 and negotiations which continued through February 25, 2015.  

In connection with the resolution of this matter, the Company has, subsequent to the announcement of the Company’s 2014 earnings on January 20, 2015, increased previously established legal reserves for this settlement and other legacy residential mortgage matters by $2,798 million, which increased Other expenses within the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment for the year ended December 31, 2014. This decreased income from continuing operations by $2,670 million and diluted EPS from continuing operations by $1.35 for the year ended December 31, 2014. The Civil Division legal matter was considered to be a recognizable subsequent event requiring adjustment to the Company’s December 31, 2014 consolidated financial statements under U.S. GAAP.  

While the Company and the Civil Division have reached an agreement in principle to resolve this matter, there can be no assurance that the Company and the Civil Division will agree on the final documentation of the settlement.  

The Company incurred legal expenses of $3,411 million in 2014, $1,952 million in 2013 and $513 million in 2012. The legal expenses incurred in 2014 were primarily due to reserve additions related to the agreement reached in principle with the Civil Division mentioned above, as well as reserves related to certain claims that other members of the RMBS Working Group of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force have indicated they intend to bring against the Company. The legal expenses incurred in 2013 and 2012 were primarily due to reserve additions and settlements related to legacy residential mortgage-backed securities and credit crisis related matters (see “Contingencies—Legal” in Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Legal expenses are included in Other expenses in the Company’s consolidated statements of income. The Company expects future legal expenses in general to continue to be elevated, and the changes in expenses from period to period may fluctuate significantly, given the current environment regarding financial crisis related government investigations and private litigation affecting global financial services firms, including the Company.  

Return on Equity Goal.  

The Company is aiming to improve its returns to shareholders with a goal of achieving a 10% or more return on average common equity excluding DVA (“Return on Equity”), subject to the successful execution of its strategic objectives.  

The Company plans to progress toward achieving its Return on Equity goal through the following strategies. In the Wealth Management business, the Company plans to continue to improve profitability through cost discipline and revenue growth, as reflected in a pre-tax margin target of 22% to 25% by year-end 2015. In the Fixed Income and Commodities businesses, the Company plans to improve its Return on Equity to more than 10% over time by: optimizing the Commodities business through reducing exposure to physical commodities; pursuing in the Fixed Income business, a more centralized decision-making process with more strategic resource allocation and a focus on expenses, leveraging technology, capital and balance sheet optimization; and the continued reduction of RWAs. Across the entire organization, the Company plans to pursue the following: executing its overall expense reduction plan and improving both compensation and non-compensation expense ratios; growing earnings through Morgan Stanley-specific opportunities, particularly with respect to deposit growth in its U.S.  

    87      

Table of Contents 

 Subsidiary Banks and optimization of lending products and AFS securities; reducing funding costs due to the improvement in the Company’s credit spreads and the refinancing of borrowings issued at higher interest rates; and prudently returning capital to shareholders, as appropriate, subject to regulatory approval.  

The Company’s Return on Equity goal and its related strategies are forward-looking statements that may be materially affected by many factors including, among other things: macroeconomic and market conditions; legislative and regulatory developments; industry trading and investment banking volumes; equity market levels; interest rate environment; and legal expenses. Given the uncertainties surrounding these and other factors, there are significant risks that the Company’s Return on Equity goal may not be realized, and actual results may differ from the goal and the differences may be material and adverse. Accordingly, the Company cautions that undue reliance is not to be placed on any of these forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A for additional information regarding these forward-looking statements. Return on Equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess operating performance.  

U.S. Subsidiary Banks’ Lending Activities.  

The Company provides loans to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to high net worth individuals, primarily through the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks. The Company’s lending activities in its Institutional Securities business segment primarily include corporate lending activities, in which the Company provides loans or lending commitments to certain corporate clients. In addition to corporate lending activities, the Institutional Securities business segment engages in other lending activities. The Company’s lending activities in its Wealth Management business segment include securities-based lending that allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities in PLAs and residential mortgage lending. The Company expects its lending activities to continue to grow through further penetration of the Company’s Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments’ client base.  

The following table presents the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks’ lending activities included in its consolidated statements of financial condition:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) In addition to primary corporate lending activity, the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment engages in other lending activities. These activities include commercial and residential mortgage lending, asset-backed lending, corporate loans purchased in the secondary market, financing extended to Institutional equities clients and loans to municipalities. The increase in other lending from 2013 primarily reflects growth in commercial mortgage and asset-backed loans.  

For a further discussion of the Company’s credit risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Item 7A. Also see Notes 8 and 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information about the Company’s loans and lending commitments, respectively.  

      88    

Table of Contents 

Investment Securities—Available for Sale and Held to Maturity.   

During 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company reported net unrealized gains (losses) of $209 million, $(433) million and $28 million, net of tax, respectively, on its AFS securities portfolio. Unrealized gains (losses) in the AFS securities portfolio are included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for all periods presented. The unrealized gains and losses for 2014, 2013 and 2012 were primarily due to changes in interest rates. The securities in the Company’s AFS securities portfolio with an unrealized loss were not other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2014, December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. In 2014, the Company purchased $100 million in HTM securities and expects to grow its HTM Investment securities portfolio. For more information, see Notes 2 and 5 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Real Estate.  

The Company acts as the general partner for various real estate funds and also invests in certain of these funds as a limited partner. The Company’s real estate investments at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 are described below. Such amounts exclude investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans.  

At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition included amounts representing real estate investment assets of consolidated subsidiaries of approximately $0.3 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively, including noncontrolling interests of approximately $0.2 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, for a net amount of approximately $23 million and $451 million, respectively. The decrease was driven by the deconsolidation of certain legal entities associated with a real estate fund sponsored by the Company. The deconsolidation was due to the Volcker Rule regulations becoming effective on April 1, 2014, combined with an earlier expiration of a credit facility that was not renewed by the Company. This net presentation is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure for the Company and investors to use in assessing the Company’s net exposure. In addition, the Company has contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty arrangements with respect to real estate investments of $0.3 billion at December 31, 2014.  

In addition to the Company’s real estate investments, the Company engages in various real estate-related activities, including origination of loans secured by commercial and residential properties. The Company also securitizes and trades in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate. In connection with these activities, the Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties are breached. The Company continues to monitor its real estate-related activities in order to manage its exposures and potential liability from these markets and businesses. See “Legal Proceedings—Residential Mortgage and Credit Crisis Related Matters” in Part I, Item 3, and Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, for further information.  

Japanese Securities Joint Venture.  

The Company holds a 40% voting interest and MUFG holds a 60% voting interest in MUMSS. The Company accounts for its interest in MUMSS as an equity method investment within the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment. During 2014, 2013 and 2012, the Company recorded income of $224 million, $570 million and $152 million, respectively, within Other revenues in the Company’s consolidated statements of income, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS.  

To the extent that losses incurred by MUMSS result in a requirement to restore its capital, MUFG is solely responsible for providing this additional capital to a minimum level, whereas the Company is not obligated to contribute additional capital to MUMSS. To the extent that MUMSS is required to increase its capital level due to factors other than losses, such as changes in regulatory requirements, both MUFG and the Company are required to contribute the necessary capital based upon their economic interest as set forth above.  

    89      

Table of Contents 

In June 2014 and June 2013, MUMSS paid a dividend of approximately $594 million and $287 million, respectively, of which the Company received approximately $238 million and $115 million, respectively, for its proportionate share of MUMSS.  

See Note 22 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.  

Income Tax Matters.  

In 2014, the Company recognized an aggregate discrete net tax benefit of $2,226 million. This discrete net tax benefit consisted of: $1,380 million primarily due to the release of a deferred tax liability as a result of a legal entity restructuring, $609 million principally associated with remeasurement of reserves and related interest due to new information regarding the status of a multi-year tax authority examination, and $237 million primarily associated with the repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated. In addition, the Company’s Provision for (benefit from) income taxes was impacted by approximately $900 million of tax provision as a result of non-deductible expenses related to litigation and regulatory matters.  

On October 31, 2014, the Company completed an internal restructuring to simplify its legal entity organization that included a change in tax status of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC from a partnership to a corporation. As a result of this change in tax status, the Company released a deferred tax liability which was previously established in 2009 as part of the acquisition of Smith Barney through a charge to Additional paid-in capital. This discrete net tax benefit of $1,390 million was included in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes in the Company’s consolidated statements of income for 2014, and attributable to its Wealth Management business segment.  

The income of certain foreign subsidiaries earned outside of the U.S. has previously been excluded from taxation in the U.S. as a result of a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of tax on certain active financial services income until such income is repatriated to the U.S. as a dividend. This provision as well as other provisions that allow for tax benefits from certain tax credits were retroactively extended for one year on December 19, 2014 as part of the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014, and the associated tax benefits were recognized in Provision for (benefit from) income taxes in the Company’s consolidated statement of income for 2014. For 2015, the increase to the effective tax rate as a result of the expiration of the provisions is estimated to be immaterial on a quarterly and on an annual basis.  

New York State corporate tax reform (the “tax reform”) was signed into law on March 31, 2014. The tax reform, which is effective for tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2015, merges the existing bank franchise tax into a substantially amended general corporation franchise tax and adopts customer-based single receipts factor for all New York taxpayers. The tax reform mainly impacts the Company’s banking subsidiaries and did not have a material impact on the Company’s 2014 annual effective tax rate and consolidated statements of income for 2014.  

In 2013, the Company recognized an aggregate discrete net tax benefit of $407 million. This included discrete tax benefits of: $161 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with new information regarding the status of certain tax authority examinations; $92 million related to the establishment of a previously unrecognized deferred tax asset from a legal entity reorganization; $73 million that is attributable to tax planning strategies to optimize foreign tax credit utilization as a result of the anticipated repatriation of earnings from certain non-U.S. subsidiaries; and $81 million due to the retroactive effective date of the Relief Act. The Relief Act that was enacted on January 2, 2013, among other things, extended with retroactive effect to January 1, 2012 a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of tax on certain active financial services income of certain foreign subsidiaries earned outside the U.S. until such income is repatriated to the U.S. as a dividend.  

In 2012, the Company recognized an aggregate net tax benefit of $142 million. This included a discrete tax benefit of $299 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with either the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or new information regarding the status of certain Internal Revenue Service examinations and an aggregate out-of-period net tax provision of $157 million, to adjust the  

      90    

Table of Contents 

 overstatement of deferred tax assets associated with partnership investments, principally in the Company’s Investment Management business segment and repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in prior years. The Company has evaluated the effects of the understatement of the income tax provision both qualitatively and quantitatively and concluded that it did not have a material impact on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements.  

Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.  

Expense. The Company recognizes the compensation cost of an employee’s pension benefits (including prior-service cost) over the employee’s estimated service period. This process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. The defined benefit pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “U.S. Qualified Plan”) ceased future benefit accruals after December 31, 2010. Any benefits earned by participants under the U.S. Qualified Plan at December 31, 2010 were preserved and will be payable based on the U.S. Qualified Plan’s provisions. Net periodic pension expense for U.S. and non-U.S. plans was $91 million, $97 million and $99 million for 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

In 2014, the Morgan Stanley Supplemental Executive Retirement and Excess Plan (the “SEREP”) was amended to cease accrual of benefits. Any benefits earned by participants under the SEREP prior to October 1, 2014 will be payable in the future based on the SEREP’s provisions. The amendment did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Contributions. The Company made contributions of $244 million, $42 million and $42 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from operations.  

The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded plans by considering several factors, including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, the types of assets in which the plans are invested, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The Company’s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax laws (for example, in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or “ERISA”). In December 2014, an elective $200 million contribution was made to the U.S. Qualified Plan, primarily to offset the increase in liability due to the Plan’s adoption of new mortality tables. In 2014, 2013 and 2012, there were no minimum required ERISA contributions for the U.S. Qualified Plan. No contributions were made to the U.S. Qualified Plan for 2013 and 2012.  

See Note 19 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for more information on the Company’s defined benefit pension and postretirement plans.  

    91      

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies.  

The Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8). The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8), the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.  

Fair Value.  

Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value. A significant number of the Company’s financial instruments are carried at fair value. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the Company’s consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include, but are not limited to:  

   •    Trading assets and Trading liabilities;  

   •    AFS securities;  

   •    Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral;  

   •    Certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell;  

   •    Certain Deposits;  

   •    Certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;  

   •    Certain Securities sold under agreements to repurchase;  

   •    Certain Other secured financings; and  

   •    Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes.  

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  

In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches. A hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the relevant observable inputs be used when available. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein Level 1 uses quoted prices in active markets, Level 2 uses valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, and Level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, require the greatest use of judgment. In periods of market disruption, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be recategorized from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. In addition, a downturn in market conditions could lead to declines in the valuation of many instruments. For further information on the valuation process, fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and related valuation techniques, and quantitative information about and sensitivity of significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements, see Notes 2 and 4 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

During the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company incorporated FVA into the fair value measurements of OTC uncollateralized or partially collateralized derivatives, and in collateralized derivatives where the terms of the agreement do not permit the reuse of the collateral received. The Company’s implementation of FVA reflects the inclusion of FVA in the pricing and valuations by the majority of market participants involved in the Company’s principal exit market for these instruments. In general, FVA reflects a market funding risk premium inherent in the noted derivative instruments. The implementation of FVA required a number of important management judgments including:  

   •    Determining when sufficient market evidence exists to indicate that FVA should be incorporated into the fair value measurements;  

      92    

Table of Contents 

   •    Estimating the fair value of funding costs and benefits in the principal exit market; and  

   •    Determining the interaction between Credit Valuation Adjustment (“CVA”) and FVA, given that CVA already reflects credit spreads, which are related to and can impact funding spreads.  

For a further discussion of valuation adjustments applied by the Company, see Note 2 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, certain of the Company’s assets and liabilities were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, primarily relating to loans, other investments, premises, equipment and software costs, intangible assets and other assets. The Company incurs losses or gains for any adjustments of these assets to fair value. A downturn in market conditions could result in impairment charges in future periods.  

For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.  

See Note 4 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information on assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.  

Fair Value Control Processes. The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to ensure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable.  

See Note 2 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding the Company’s valuation policies, processes and procedures.  

Goodwill and Intangible Assets.  

Goodwill. The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis on July 1 and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. The Company tests for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is generally at the level of or one level below its business segments. Goodwill no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition once it has been assigned to a reporting unit. As such, all the activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically developed, are available to support the value of the goodwill. For both the annual and interim tests, the Company has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is not required. However, if the Company concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its respective carrying value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required to determine the amount of the impairment. Additionally, if the carrying value of a reporting unit is zero or a negative value and it is determined that it is more likely than not the goodwill is impaired, further analysis is required. The estimated fair value of the reporting units is derived based on valuation techniques the Company believes market participants would use for each of the reporting units. The estimated fair value is generally determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology or methodologies that incorporate price-to-book and price-to-earnings multiples of certain comparable companies. At each annual goodwill impairment testing date, each of the Company’s reporting units with goodwill had a fair value that was substantially in excess of its carrying value.  

    93      

Table of Contents 

Intangible Assets. Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. An impairment exists when the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. An impairment loss will be recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows.  

For both goodwill and intangible assets, to the extent an impairment loss is recognized, the loss establishes the new cost basis of the asset. Subsequent reversal of impairment losses is not permitted. For amortizable intangible assets, the new cost basis is amortized over the remaining useful life of that asset. Adverse market or economic events could result in impairment charges in future periods.  

See Notes 2, 4 and 9 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information about goodwill and intangible assets.  

Legal and Regulatory Contingencies.  

In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution.  

Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.  

The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company’s business, and involving, among other matters, sales and trading activities, financial products or offerings sponsored, underwritten or sold by the Company, and accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  

Accruals for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis. Where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the Company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. In many proceedings, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. For certain legal proceedings and investigations, the Company can estimate possible losses, additional losses, ranges of loss or ranges of additional loss in excess of amounts accrued. For certain other legal proceedings and investigations, the Company cannot reasonably estimate such losses, particularly for proceedings and investigations where the factual record is being developed or contested or where plaintiffs or government entities seek substantial or indeterminate damages, restitution, disgorgement or penalties. Numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, determination of issues related to class certification and the calculation of damages or other relief, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings or investigations in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for a proceeding or investigation.  

Significant judgment is required in deciding when and if to make these accruals and the actual cost of a legal claim or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals.  

See Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings.  

      94    

Table of Contents 

Income Taxes.  

The Company is subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company periodically evaluates the likelihood of assessments in each taxing jurisdiction resulting from current and subsequent years’ examinations, and unrecognized tax benefits related to potential losses that may arise from tax audits are established in accordance with the guidance on accounting for unrecognized tax benefits. Once established, unrecognized tax benefits are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change.  

The Company’s provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes. Current income taxes approximate taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period. The Company’s deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the applicable enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse. The Company’s deferred tax balances also include deferred assets related to tax attribute carryforwards, such as net operating losses and tax credits that will be realized through reduction of future tax liabilities and, in some cases, are subject to expiration if not utilized within certain periods. The Company performs regular reviews to ascertain whether deferred tax assets are realizable. These reviews include management’s estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income and incorporate various tax planning strategies, including strategies that may be available to utilize net operating losses before they expire. Once the deferred tax asset balances have been determined, the Company may record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset balances to reflect the amount of these balances (net of valuation allowance) that the Company estimates it is more likely than not to realize at a future date. Both current and deferred income taxes could reflect adjustments related to the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits.  

Significant judgment is required in estimating the consolidated provision for (benefit from) income taxes, current and deferred tax balances (including valuation allowance, if any), accrued interest or penalties and uncertain tax positions. Revisions in our estimates and/or the actual costs of a tax assessment may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, if any.  

See Note 2 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on the Company’s significant assumptions, judgments and interpretations associated with the accounting for income taxes and Note 20 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on the Company’s tax examinations.  

    95      

Table of Contents 

Liquidity and Capital Resources.  

The Company’s senior management establishes liquidity and capital policies. Through various risk and control committees, the Company’s senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company’s asset and liability position. The Company’s Treasury Department, Firm Risk Committee, Asset and Liability Management Committee, and other committees and control groups assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company’s business activities have on its consolidated statements of financial condition, liquidity and capital structure. Liquidity and capital matters are reported regularly to the Board’s Risk Committee.  

The Balance Sheet.  

The Company monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet on a regular basis. The Company’s balance sheet management process includes quarterly planning, business-specific limits, monitoring of business-specific usage versus limits, key metrics and new business impact assessments.  

The Company establishes balance sheet limits at the consolidated, business segment and business unit levels. The Company monitors balance sheet usage versus limits, and variances resulting from business activity or market fluctuations are reviewed. On a regular basis, the Company reviews current performance versus limits and assesses the need to re-allocate limits based on business unit needs. The Company also monitors key metrics, including asset and liability size, composition of the balance sheet, limit utilization and capital usage.  

The tables below summarize total assets for the Company’s business segments at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Cash and cash equivalents include Cash and due from banks and Interest bearing deposits with banks.  

 (2) Certain of these assets are included in secured financing assets (see “Secured Financing” herein).  

 (3) Investment securities include both AFS securities and HTM securities.  

 (4) Amounts include loans held for sale and loans held for investment but exclude loans at fair value, which are included in Trading assets in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition (see Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

 (5) Other assets include Other investments; Premises, equipment and software costs; Goodwill; Intangible assets; and Other assets.  

 (6) Total assets include Global Liquidity Reserve of $193 billion at December 31, 2014.  

      96    

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On October 1, 2014, the Managed Futures business was transferred from the Company’s Wealth Management business segment to the Company’s Investment Management business segment.  

 (2) Cash and cash equivalents include Cash and due from banks and Interest bearing deposits with banks.  

 (3) Certain of these assets are included in secured financing assets (see “Secured Financing” herein).  

 (4) Investment securities include only AFS securities.  

 (5) Amounts include loans held for sale and loans held for investment but exclude loans at fair value, which are included in Trading assets in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition (see Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

 (6) Other assets include Other investments; Premises, equipment and software costs; Goodwill; Intangible assets; and Other assets.  

 (7) Total assets include Global Liquidity Reserve of $202 billion at December 31, 2013.  

A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from sales and trading activities in the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in managing the size of its balance sheet. The Company’s total assets decreased to $802 billion at December 31, 2014 from $833 billion at December 31, 2013. The decrease in total assets was primarily due to a decrease in Trading assets, primarily due to reductions in U.S. government and agency securities, interest bearing deposits with banks, and Securities purchased under agreements to resell partially offset by an increase in Loans, Investment securities and Securities borrowed.  

The Company’s assets and liabilities are primarily related to transactions attributable to sales and trading and securities financing activities. At December 31, 2014, securities financing assets and liabilities were $320 billion and $295 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2013, securities financing assets and liabilities were $352 billion and $353 billion, respectively. Securities financing transactions include Cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements, repurchase and resale agreements, Securities borrowed and loaned transactions, Securities received as collateral and obligations to return securities received, and Customer and other receivables and payables. Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are treated as collateralized financings (see Notes 2 and 6 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8). Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned were $95 billion at December 31, 2014 and averaged $137 billion during 2014. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned period-end balances were lower than the average balances during 2014 as the Company’s assets decreased. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed were $220 billion at December 31, 2014 and averaged $255 billion during 2014. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed period-end balances were lower than the average balances during 2014 due to a reduction in client financing activity and an increase in financing balance sheet efficiencies.  

    97      

Table of Contents 

Securities financing assets and liabilities also include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. Matched book transactions accommodate customers, as well as obtain securities for the settlement and financing of inventory positions. The customer receivable portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer-owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated in accordance with regulatory requirements. The customer payable portion of the securities financing transactions primarily includes customer payables to the Company’s prime brokerage customers. The Company’s risk exposure on these transactions is mitigated by collateral maintenance policies that limit the Company’s credit exposure to customers. Included within securities financing assets were $21 billion at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, recorded in accordance with accounting guidance for the transfer of financial assets that represented offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions.  

Liquidity Risk Management Framework.  

The primary goal of the Company’s liquidity risk management framework is to ensure that the Company has access to adequate funding across a wide range of market conditions. The framework is designed to enable the Company to fulfill its financial obligations and support the execution of the Company’s business strategies.  

The following principles guide the Company’s liquidity risk management framework:  

   •    Sufficient liquid assets should be maintained to cover maturing liabilities and other planned and contingent outflows;  

   •    Maturity profile of assets and liabilities should be aligned, with limited reliance on short-term funding;  

   •    Source, counterparty, currency, region, and term of funding should be diversified; and  

   •    Contingency Funding Plan (“CFP”) should anticipate, and account for, periods of limited access to funding.  

The core components of the Company’s liquidity risk management framework are the CFP, Liquidity Stress Tests and the Global Liquidity Reserve (as defined below), which support the Company’s target liquidity profile.  

Contingency Funding Plan.  

The Company’s CFP describes the data and information flows, limits, targets, operating environment indicators, escalation procedures, roles and responsibilities, and available mitigating actions in the event of a liquidity stress. The CFP also sets forth the principal elements of the Company’s liquidity stress testing, which identifies stress events of different severity and duration, assesses current funding sources, and uses and establishes a plan for monitoring and managing a potential liquidity stress event.  

Liquidity Stress Tests.  

The Company uses Liquidity Stress Tests to model liquidity outflows across multiple scenarios over a range of time horizons. These scenarios contain various combinations of idiosyncratic and systemic stress events.  

The assumptions underpinning the Liquidity Stress Tests include, but are not limited to, the following:  

   •    No government support;  

   •    No access to equity and unsecured debt markets;  

   •    Repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within the stress horizon;  

   •    Higher haircuts and significantly lower availability of secured funding;  

   •    Additional collateral that would be required by trading counterparties, certain exchanges and clearing organizations related to credit rating downgrades;  

   •    Additional collateral that would be required due to collateral substitutions, collateral disputes and uncalled collateral;  

      98    

Table of Contents 

   •    Discretionary unsecured debt buybacks;  

   •    Drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties;  

   •    Client cash withdrawals and reduction in customer short positions that fund long positions;  

   •    Limited access to the foreign exchange swap markets; and  

   •    Maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance.  

The Liquidity Stress Tests are produced for the Parent and major operating subsidiaries, as well as at major currency levels, to capture specific cash requirements and cash availability across the Company, including a limited number of asset sales in a stressed environment. The Liquidity Stress Tests assume that subsidiaries will use their own liquidity first to fund their obligations before drawing liquidity from the Parent. The Parent will support its subsidiaries and will not have access to subsidiaries’ liquidity reserves. In addition to the assumptions underpinning the Liquidity Stress Tests, the Company takes into consideration the settlement risk related to intraday settlement and clearing of securities and financing activities.  

At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the Company maintained sufficient liquidity to meet current and contingent funding obligations as modeled in its Liquidity Stress Tests.  

Global Liquidity Reserve.  

The Company maintains sufficient liquidity reserves (“Global Liquidity Reserve”) to cover daily funding needs and to meet strategic liquidity targets sized by the CFP and Liquidity Stress Tests. The size of the Global Liquidity Reserve is actively managed by the Company. The following components are considered in sizing the Global Liquidity Reserve: unsecured debt maturity profile, balance sheet size and composition, funding needs in a stressed environment inclusive of contingent cash outflows and collateral requirements. In addition, the Company’s Global Liquidity Reserve includes an additional reserve, which is primarily a discretionary surplus based on the Company’s risk tolerance and is subject to change dependent on market and firm-specific events.  

The Company’s Global Liquidity Reserve is held within the Parent and its major operating subsidiaries. The Company’s Global Liquidity Reserve is composed of diversified cash and cash equivalents and unencumbered highly liquid securities. Eligible unencumbered highly liquid securities include U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, non-U.S. government securities and other highly liquid investment grade securities.  

Global Liquidity Reserve by Type of Investment.  

The table below summarizes the Company’s Global Liquidity Reserve by type of investment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Non-U.S. sovereign obligations are composed of unencumbered German, French, Dutch, U.K., Brazilian and Japanese government obligations.  

    99      

Table of Contents 

The ability to monetize assets during a liquidity crisis is critical. The Company believes that the assets held in its Global Liquidity Reserve can be monetized within five business days in a stressed environment given the highly liquid and diversified nature of the reserves. The currency profile of the Company’s Global Liquidity Reserve is consistent with the Company’s CFP and Liquidity Stress Tests. In addition to its Global Liquidity Reserve, the Company has other cash and cash equivalents and other unencumbered assets that are available for monetization that are not included in the balances in the table above.  

Global Liquidity Reserve Held by Bank and Non-Bank Legal Entities.  

The table below summarizes period-end and average balances of the Company’s Global Liquidity Reserve held by bank and non-bank legal entities:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company calculates the average Global Liquidity Reserve based upon daily amounts.  

 (2) The Parent held $55 billion and $58 billion at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively, which averaged $57 billion and $63 billion during 2014 and 2013, respectively.  

Basel Liquidity Framework.  

The Basel Committee has developed two standards intended for use in liquidity risk supervision: the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”).  

Liquidity Coverage Ratio. The LCR was developed to ensure banking organizations have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to cover net cash outflows arising from significant stress over 30 calendar days. This standard’s objective is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banking organizations.  

In September 2014, the U.S. bank regulators issued a final rule to implement the LCR in the U.S. (“U.S. LCR”). The U.S. LCR applies to the Company and the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks. The U.S. LCR is more stringent in certain respects than the Basel Committee’s version of the LCR as it includes a generally narrower definition of debt and equity securities that qualify as high-quality liquid assets, different methodologies and assumptions for calculating net cash outflows during the 30-day stress period, a maturity mismatch add-on, and a phase-in period that ends on December 31, 2016. In addition, under the U.S. LCR, a banking organization must submit a liquidity compliance plan to its primary federal banking agency if it fails to maintain the minimum U.S. LCR requirement for three consecutive business days. As of January 1, 2015 the Company and the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks are required to maintain a minimum U.S. LCR of 80%. This minimum requirement will increase to 90% beginning on January 1, 2016 and will be fully phased in at 100% beginning on January 1, 2017. The Company and the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks must calculate their respective U.S. LCR on a monthly basis during the period between January 1, 2015 and June 30, 2015 and on each business day starting on July 1, 2015. The Company is compliant with the minimum required U.S. LCR based on current estimates and interpretation and continues to evaluate its potential impact on the Company’s liquidity and funding requirements.  

      100    

Table of Contents 

Net Stable Funding Ratio. The objective of the NSFR is to reduce funding risk over a one-year horizon by requiring banking organizations to fund their activities with sufficiently stable sources of funding in order to mitigate the risk of future funding stress. In October 2014, the Basel Committee finalized revisions to the original December 2010 version of the NSFR. The U.S. banking regulators are expected to issue a proposal to implement the NSFR in the U.S. The Company continues to evaluate the NSFR and its potential impact on the Company’s current liquidity and funding requirements.  

Funding Management.  

The Company manages its funding in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the Company’s operations. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of secured and unsecured funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the Company’s liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed.  

The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources may include the Company’s equity capital, long-term debt, repurchase agreements, securities lending, deposits, commercial paper, letters of credit and lines of credit. The Company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products targeting global investors and currencies.  

Secured Financing.  

A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and arises principally from its Institutional Securities business segment’s sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in funding these assets with secured financing. The Company’s goal is to achieve an optimal mix of durable secured and unsecured financing. Secured financing investors principally focus on the quality of the eligible collateral posted. Accordingly, the Company actively manages its secured financing book based on the quality of the assets being funded. 

The Company utilizes shorter-term secured financing only for highly liquid assets and has established longer tenor limits for less liquid asset classes, for which funding may be at risk in the event of a market disruption. The Company defines highly liquid assets as government-issued or government-guaranteed securities with a high degree of fundability and less liquid assets as those that do not meet this criteria. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the weighted average maturity of the Company’s secured financing against less liquid assets was greater than 120 days. To further minimize the refinancing risk of secured financing for less liquid assets, the Company has established concentration limits to diversify its investor base and reduce the amount of monthly maturities for secured financing of less liquid assets. Furthermore, the Company obtains term secured funding liabilities in excess of less liquid inventory, or “spare capacity”, as an additional risk mitigant to replace maturing trades in the event that secured financing markets or the Company’s ability to access them become limited. Finally, in addition to the above risk management framework, the Company holds a portion of its Global Liquidity Reserve against the potential disruption to its secured financing capabilities.  

The Company also maintains a pool of liquid and easily fundable securities, which provide a valuable future source of liquidity. With the implementation of U.S. Basel III liquidity standards, the Company has also incorporated high quality liquid asset classifications that are consistent with the U.S. LCR definitions into its encumbrance reporting, which further substantiates the demonstrated liquidity characteristics of the unencumbered asset pool and the Company’s ability to readily identify new funding sources for such assets.  

    101      

Table of Contents 

Unsecured Financing.  

The Company views long-term debt and deposits as stable sources of funding. Unencumbered securities and non-security assets are financed with a combination of long-term and short-term debt and deposits. The Company’s unsecured financings include structured borrowings, whose payments and redemption values are based on the performance of certain underlying assets, including equity, credit, foreign exchange, interest rates and commodities. When appropriate, the Company may use derivative products to conduct asset and liability management and to make adjustments to the Company’s interest rate and structured borrowings risk profile (see Note 12 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Short-Term Borrowings.  

The Company’s unsecured short-term borrowings may consist of commercial paper, bank loans, bank notes and structured notes with maturities of 12 months or less at issuance.  

The table below summarizes the Company’s short-term unsecured borrowings:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Deposits.  

The Company’s bank subsidiaries’ funding sources include time deposits, money market deposit accounts, demand deposit accounts, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, commercial paper and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. The vast majority of deposits in the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks are sourced from the Company’s retail brokerage accounts and are considered to have stable, low-cost funding characteristics. Concurrent with the acquisition of the remaining 35% stake in the Wealth Management JV, the deposit sweep agreement between Citi and the Company was terminated. During 2014, $19 billion of deposits held by Citi relating to the Company’s customer accounts were transferred to the Company’s depository institutions. At December 31, 2014, approximately $9 billion of additional deposits are scheduled to be transferred to the Company’s depository institutions on an agreed-upon basis through June 2015 (see Note 3 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8). 

Deposits were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Total deposits subject to FDIC insurance at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 were $99 billion and $84 billion, respectively.  

 (2) Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 4 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

 (3) At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, approximately $128 billion and $104 billion, respectively, were attributed to the Company’s Wealth Management business segment. These total deposits exclude deposits held by Citi relating to the Company’s customer accounts.  

      102    

Table of Contents 

Senior Indebtedness.  

At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the aggregate outstanding carrying amount of the Company’s senior indebtedness (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries) was approximately $142 billion and $143 billion, respectively.  

Long-Term Borrowings.  

The Company believes that accessing debt investors through multiple distribution channels helps provide consistent access to the unsecured markets. In addition, the issuance of long-term debt allows the Company to reduce reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Long-term borrowings are generally managed to achieve staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and to maximize investor diversification through sales to global institutional and retail clients across regions, currencies and product types. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the Company’s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit.  

The Company may engage in various transactions in the credit markets (including, for example, debt retirements) that it believes are in the best interests of the Company and its investors.  

Long-term borrowings by maturity profile at December 31, 2014 consisted of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Long-Term Borrowing Activity in 2014.  

During 2014, the Company issued and reissued notes with a principal amount of approximately $36.7 billion. In connection with these note issuances, the Company generally enters into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates. The weighted average maturity of the Company’s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5.9 years at December 31, 2014. During 2014, approximately $33.1 billion in aggregate long-term borrowings matured or were retired. Subsequent to December 31, 2014 and through January 31, 2015, the Company’s long-term borrowings (net of repayments) increased by approximately $5.4 billion. This amount includes the Company’s issuance of $5.5 billion in senior debt on January 27, 2015 and the issuance of $1.7 billion in senior debt on January 30, 2015. For a further discussion of the Company’s long-term borrowings see Note 11 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Credit Ratings.  

The Company relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of financing generally are impacted by, among other variables, the Company’s credit ratings. In addition, the Company’s credit ratings can have an impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer-term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. Rating agencies consider company-specific factors; other industry factors such as regulatory or legislative changes; the macroeconomic environment; and perceived levels of government support, among other things.  

    103      

Table of Contents 

Some rating agencies have stated that they currently incorporate various degrees of credit rating uplift from external sources of potential support, as well as perceived government support of systemically important banks, including the credit ratings of the Company. Rating agencies continue to monitor the progress of U.S. financial reform legislation and regulations to assess whether the possibility of extraordinary government support for the financial system in any future financial crises is negatively impacted. Legislative and rulemaking outcomes may lead to reduced uplift assumptions for U.S. banks and, thereby, place downward pressure on credit ratings. At the same time, proposed and final U.S. financial reform legislation and attendant rulemaking, such as higher standards for capital and liquidity levels, also have positive implications for credit ratings. The net result on credit ratings and the timing of any change in rating agency views on changes in potential government support and financial reform efforts are currently uncertain.  

At January 31, 2015, the Parent’s and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.’s senior unsecured ratings were as set forth below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On June 12, 2014, DBRS, Inc. confirmed the ratings for the Company, including its long-term debt rating of A (high) and short-term instruments rating of R-1 (middle). The rating outlook trend on all long-term ratings was revised to Stable from Negative, while the rating outlook trend on all short-term ratings remained Stable.  

 (2) On July 24, 2014, Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) affirmed the Company’s long-term debt rating as well as the ratings of its subsidiaries and revised its ratings outlook to Positive from Stable.  

 (3) On November 26, 2014, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) revised its rating outlook on the Company’s operating subsidiaries, including Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. to Stable from Negative and affirmed its rating on Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. short-term and long-term debt of A-1 and A, respectively.  

In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements where the Company is a liquidity provider to certain financing vehicles associated with the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment, the Company may be required to provide additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties or pledge additional collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a future credit rating downgrade irrespective of whether the Company is in a net asset or net liability position. 

The additional collateral or termination payments that may be called in the event of a future credit rating downgrade vary by contract and can be based on ratings by either or both of Moody’s and S&P. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the future potential collateral amounts and termination payments that could be called or required by counterparties or exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of one-notch or two-notch downgrade scenarios, from the lowest of Moody’s or S&P ratings, based on the relevant contractual downgrade triggers were $1,856 million and $1,522 million, respectively, and an incremental $2,984 million and $3,321 million, respectively.  

While certain aspects of a credit rating downgrade are quantifiable pursuant to contractual provisions, the impact it will have on the Company’s business and results of operation in future periods is inherently uncertain and will depend on a number of interrelated factors, including, among others, the magnitude of the downgrade, the rating relative to peers, the rating assigned by the relevant agency pre-downgrade, individual client behavior and future mitigating actions the Company may take. The liquidity impact of additional collateral requirements is included in the Company’s Liquidity Stress Tests.  

      104    

Table of Contents 

Capital Management.  

The Company’s senior management views capital as an important source of financial strength. The Company actively manages its consolidated capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, risks, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total capital, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries’ required equity.  

In March 2014, the Company received no objection from the Federal Reserve to the Company’s 2014 capital plan, which included a share repurchase of up to $1 billion of the Company’s outstanding common stock beginning in the second quarter of 2014 through the end of the first quarter of 2015, as well as an increase in the Company’s quarterly common stock dividend to $0.10 per share from $0.05 per share, beginning with the dividend declared on April 17, 2014. During 2014 and 2013, the Company repurchased approximately $900 million and $350 million, respectively, of the Company’s outstanding common stock as part of its share repurchase program (see Note 15 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

At December 31, 2014, the Company had approximately $0.3 billion remaining under its current share repurchase program. The share repurchase program is for capital management purposes and considers, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. Share repurchases under the Company’s existing authorized program will be exercised from time to time at prices the Company deems appropriate subject to various factors, including the Company’s capital position and market conditions. The share repurchases may be effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans, and may be suspended at any time. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval (see also “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities in Part II, Item 5). The share repurchase program has no set expiration or termination date.  

The Company’s Board of Directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. The cash dividends declared on the Company’s outstanding preferred stock were $311 million, $271 million and $97 million in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. On January 20, 2015, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.10. The dividend was paid on February 13, 2015 to common shareholders of record on January 30, 2015 (see Note 25 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Issuances of Preferred Stock.  

Series G Preferred Stock. On April 29, 2014, the Company issued 20,000,000 Depositary Shares for an aggregate price of $500 million. Each Depositary Share represents a 1/1,000th interest in a share of perpetual 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, $0.01 par value (“Series G Preferred Stock”). The Series G Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company’s option (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date on or after July 15, 2019 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as described in the terms of that series), in each case at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25.00 per Depositary Share). The Series G Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Company’s common stock upon liquidation. The Series G Preferred Stock offering (net of related issuance costs) resulted in proceeds of approximately $494 million.  

Series H Preferred Stock. On April 29, 2014, the Company issued 1,300,000 Depositary Shares for an aggregate price of $1,300 million. Each Depositary Share represents a 1/25th interest in a share of perpetual Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H, $0.01 par value (“Series H Preferred Stock”). The Series H Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company’s option (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date on or after July 15, 2019 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as described in the terms of that series), in each case at a  

    105      

Table of Contents 

 redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $1,000 per Depositary Share). The Series H Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Company’s common stock upon liquidation. The Series H Preferred Stock offering (net of related issuance costs) resulted in proceeds of approximately $1,294 million.  

Series I Preferred Stock. On September 18, 2014, the Company issued 40,000,000 Depositary Shares for an aggregate price of $1,000 million. Each Depositary Share represents a 1/1,000th interest in a share of perpetual Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, $0.01 par value (“Series I Preferred Stock”). The Series I Preferred Stock is redeemable at the Company’s option (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date on or after October 15, 2024 or (ii) in whole but not in part at any time within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event (as described in the terms of that series), in each case at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25.00 per Depository Share). The Series I Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Company’s common stock upon liquidation. The Series I Preferred Stock offering (net of related issuance costs) resulted in proceeds of approximately $994 million.  

On December 16, 2014, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared, a quarterly or semi-annual dividend as appropriate, for preferred stock shareholders of record on December 31, 2014, that was paid on January 15, 2015 as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Dividend on Series H is payable semi-annually until July 15, 2019.  

      106    

Table of Contents 

Tangible Equity.  

The following table sets forth tangible Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity and tangible common equity at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 and average tangible Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity and average tangible common equity for 2014 and 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company calculates its average balances based upon month-end balances.  

 (2) The deduction for Goodwill and net intangible assets is partially offset by mortgage servicing rights (“MSR”) (net of disallowable MSR) of $6 million and $7 million at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively.  

 (3) Tangible Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity, and tangible common equity, non-GAAP financial measures, equals Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity or common equity, respectively less goodwill and net intangible assets as defined above. The Company views tangible Morgan Stanley shareholders’ equity and tangible common equity as a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess capital adequacy.  

Capital Covenants.  

In October 2006 and April 2007, the Company executed replacement capital covenants in connection with offerings by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII and Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (the “Capital Securities”), which become effective after the scheduled redemption date in 2046. Under the terms of the replacement capital covenants, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the replacement capital covenants, see the Company’s Current Reports on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006 and April 26, 2007.  

Regulatory Requirements.  

Regulatory Capital Framework.  

The Company is a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is subject to the regulation and oversight of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the Company’s compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks.  

Implementation of U.S. Basel III.  

The U.S. banking regulators have comprehensively revised their risk-based and leverage capital framework to implement many aspects of the Basel III capital standards established by the Basel Committee. The U.S. banking regulators’ revised capital framework is referred to herein as “U.S. Basel III.” The Company and the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks became subject to U.S. Basel III on January 1, 2014. Aspects of U.S. Basel III, such as the  

    107      

Table of Contents 

 minimum risk-based capital ratio requirements, new capital buffers, and certain deductions from and adjustments to capital, will be phased in over several years. Prior to January 1, 2014, the Company and the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks calculated regulatory capital ratios using the U.S. banking regulators’ U.S. Basel I-based rules (“U.S. Basel I”) as supplemented by rules that implemented the Basel Committee’s market risk capital framework amendment, commonly referred to as “Basel 2.5.”  

Regulatory Capital. Under U.S. Basel III, new items (including certain investments in the capital instruments of unconsolidated financial institutions) are deducted from the respective tiers of regulatory capital, and certain existing regulatory deductions and adjustments are modified or are no longer applicable. The majority of these capital deductions are subject to a phase-in schedule and will be fully phased in by 2018. Unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities are reflected in Common Equity Tier 1 capital, subject to a phase in schedule. The percentage of the regulatory deductions and adjustments to Common Equity Tier 1 capital that applied to the Company in 2014 ranged from 20% to 100%, depending on the specific item.  

U.S. Basel III, which is aimed at increasing the quality and amount of regulatory capital, establishes Common Equity Tier 1 capital as a new tier of capital, increases minimum required risk-based capital ratios, provides for capital buffers above those minimum ratios, provides for new regulatory capital deductions and adjustments, modifies methods for calculating RWAs—the denominator of risk-based capital ratios—by, among other things, increasing counterparty credit risk capital requirements, and introduces a supplementary leverage ratio.  

In addition, U.S. Basel III narrows the eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments. As a result of these revisions, existing trust preferred securities will be fully phased-out of the Company’s Tier 1 capital by January 1, 2016. Thereafter, existing trust preferred securities that do not satisfy U.S. Basel III’s eligibility criteria for Tier 2 capital will be phased out of the Company’s regulatory capital by January 1, 2022.  

Risk-Weighted Assets. The Company is required to calculate and hold capital against credit, market and operational risk RWAs. RWAs reflect both on- and off-balance sheet risk of the Company. Credit risk RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations. Market risk RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other factors. For a further discussion of the Company’s market and credit risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Item 7A. Operational risk RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people and systems or from external events (e.g., fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). The Company may incur operational risks across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and control groups (e.g., information technology and trade processing). In addition, given the evolving regulatory and litigation environment across the financial services industry and that operational risk RWAs incorporate the impact of such related matters, operational risk RWAs have increased and may continue to do so. 

The Basel Committee is in the process of considering revisions to various provisions of the Basel III framework that, if adopted by the U.S. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to U.S. Basel III. In particular, the Basel Committee has finalized a new methodology for calculating counterparty credit risk exposures, the standardized approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures (“SA-CCR”); has finalized a revised framework establishing capital requirements for securitizations; and has proposed revisions to various regulatory capital standards, including for trading and banking book exposures, the credit risk framework and capital floors. In each case, the impact of these revised standards on the Company and the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks is uncertain and depends on future rulemakings by the U.S. banking agencies.  

Calculation of Risk-Based Capital Ratios. On February 21, 2014, the Federal Reserve and the OCC approved the Company’s and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks’ respective use of the U.S. Basel III advanced internal ratings-based approach for determining credit risk capital requirements and advanced measurement approaches for determining operational risk capital requirements to calculate and publicly disclose their risk-based capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014, subject to the “capital floor” discussed below (the “Advanced  

      108    

Table of Contents 

 Approach”). As an Advanced Approach banking organization, the Company is required to compute risk-based capital ratios using both (i) standardized approaches for calculating credit risk RWAs and market risk RWAs (the “Standardized Approach”); and (ii) an advanced internal ratings-based approach for calculating credit risk RWAs, an advanced measurement approach for calculating operational risk RWAs, and an advanced approach for calculating market risk RWAs under U.S. Basel III.  

To implement a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. Basel III subjects Advanced Approach banking organizations that have been approved by their regulators to exit the parallel run, such as the Company, to a permanent “capital floor.” In 2014, as a result of the capital floor, an Advanced Approach banking organization’s binding risk-based capital ratios were the lower of its ratios computed under the Advanced Approach and U.S. Basel I as supplemented by Basel 2.5. Beginning on January 1, 2015, the Company’s ratios for regulatory purposes are the lower of the capital ratios computed under the Advanced Approach or the Standardized Approach under U.S. Basel III. The U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach modifies certain U.S. Basel I-based methods for calculating RWAs and prescribes new standardized risk weights for certain types of assets and exposures. The capital floor applies to the calculation of the minimum risk-based capital requirements as well as the capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical capital buffer (if deployed by banking regulators), and, if adopted, the proposed global systemically important bank (“G-SIB”) buffer.  

The methods for calculating each of the Company’s risk-based capital ratios will change through January 1, 2022 as U.S. Basel III’s revisions to the numerator and denominator are phased in and as the Company calculates RWAs using the Advanced Approach and the Standardized Approach. These ongoing methodological changes may result in differences in the Company’s reported capital ratios from one reporting period to the next that are independent of changes to the Company’s capital base, asset composition, off-balance sheet exposures or risk profile.  

The basis for the calculation of the Company’s U.S. Basel III capital ratios, on a transitional and fully phased-in basis, are presented below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    Advanced Approach(4)       

U.S. Basel III Advanced Approach 

  Denominator of leverage ratios    

Tier 1 Leverage Ratio 

    Adjusted Average On-Balance Sheet Assets(5) 

     Supplementary Leverage Ratio(6)       

Adjusted Average 

On-Balance Sheet Assets(5) and Certain Off-Balance 

Sheet Exposures 

 (1) By the beginning of 2018, U.S. Basel III rules defining capital (numerator of capital ratios) will be fully phased in, except for the exclusion of non-qualifying trust preferred securities from Tier 2 capital, which will be fully phased-in as of January 1, 2022. In addition, the Company will also be subject to a greater than 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer, a G-SIB capital surcharge (if adopted) and, if deployed by banking regulators, up to a 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 countercyclical buffer, all of which will be fully phased in by the beginning of 2019. The capital conservation buffer, the G-SIB capital surcharge and, if deployed, the countercyclical buffer apply in addition to each of the Company’s Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 and Total capital ratios. The requirements for these additional capital buffers will be phased in beginning in 2016.  

 (2)  Beginning June 30, 2014, as a result of the Company’s and the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks’ completion of the Advanced Approach parallel run, the amount of expected credit loss that exceeds eligible credit reserves must be deducted 20% from Common  

    109      

Table of Contents 

     Equity Tier 1 capital and 80% from Additional Tier 1 capital. Over the next several years, this deduction from Common Equity Tier 1 capital will incrementally increase and the amount deducted from Additional Tier 1 capital will correspondingly decrease, until fully phased in by the beginning of 2018. In addition, under the Advanced Approach framework, the allowance for loan losses cannot be included in Tier 2 capital. Instead, an Advanced Approach banking organization may include in Tier 2 capital any eligible credit reserves that exceed its total expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6% of its Advanced Approach credit risk RWAs. The allowance for loan losses may continue to be included in Tier 2 capital for purposes of calculating capital ratios under U.S. Basel I as supplemented by Basel 2.5 and under the Standardized Approach, up to 1.25% of credit risk RWAs.  

 (3) Beginning in 2015, the Company is required to calculate credit risk RWAs and market risk RWAs under the U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach.  

 (4) Public reporting of Advanced Approach capital ratios began during the second quarter of 2014.  

 (5) In accordance with U.S. Basel III, adjusted average assets represent the Company’s average total on-balance sheet assets minus certain amounts deducted from Tier 1 capital.  

 (6) Beginning in 2015, the Company is required to publicly disclose its supplementary leverage ratio, which will become effective as a capital standard on January 1, 2018.  

Beginning in the first quarter of 2014, the Company calculated the numerator of its risk-based capital ratios using the amount of Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital determined under U.S. Basel III, subject to transitional arrangements. In the first quarter of 2014, the Company calculated the denominator of its risk-based capital ratios using the existing U.S. Basel I-based rules as supplemented by Basel 2.5. Beginning in the second quarter of 2014, the Company’s risk-based capital ratios for regulatory purposes were the lower of each ratio calculated under U.S. Basel I as supplemented by Basel 2.5 and the Advanced Approach.  

Regulatory Capital Ratios. The following table presents the Company’s regulatory capital ratios at December 31, 2014, as well as the minimum required regulatory capital ratios applicable under U.S. Basel III in 2014. At December 31, 2014, the Company’s risk-based capital ratios (as a result of the capital floor) were based on the Advanced Approach transitional rules.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Percentages show minimum capital ratios for calendar year 2014 under U.S. Basel III transitional provisions.  

 (2) Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average total on-balance sheet assets minus certain amounts deducted from Tier 1 capital in accordance with U.S. Basel III rules. 

Effective January 1, 2015, for the Company to remain a financial holding company, its U.S. Subsidiary Banks must qualify as “well-capitalized” under the higher capital requirements of U.S. Basel III by maintaining a total risk-based capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Common Equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.5%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets) of at least 5%. The Federal Reserve has not yet revised the “well-capitalized” standard for financial holding companies to reflect the higher capital standards in U.S. Basel III. Assuming that the Federal Reserve would apply the same or very similar well-capitalized standards to financial holding companies, each of the Company’s risk-based capital ratios and Tier 1 leverage ratio at December 31, 2014 would have exceeded the revised well-capitalized standard. The Federal Reserve may require the Company and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk and leverage-based capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and a financial holding company’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.  

      110    

Table of Contents 

The following is a roll-forward of the Company’s Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital calculated under U.S. Basel III on a transitional basis from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  In 2014, as a result of the Company’s and the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks’ completion of the Advanced Approach parallel run, the amount of expected credit loss that exceeded eligible credit reserves was deducted 20% from Common Equity Tier 1 capital and 80%  

    111      

Table of Contents 

     from Additional Tier 1 capital. Over the next several years, this deduction from Common Equity Tier 1 capital will incrementally increase, and the amount deducted from Additional Tier 1 capital will correspondingly decrease, until fully phased-in by 2018.  

 (2) The aggregate balance of net after-tax debt valuation adjustment includes an approximate $69 million reconciling adjustment related to a prior period.  

 (3) For purposes of calculating capital ratios under the Advanced Approach, the allowance for loan losses cannot be included in Tier 2 capital. Instead, an Advanced Approach banking organization may include in Tier 2 capital any eligible credit reserves that exceed its total expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6% of its Advanced Approach credit risk RWAs. The allowance for loan losses may continue to be included in Tier 2 capital for purposes of calculating capital ratios under U.S. Basel I and Basel 2.5 and under the Standardized Approach, up to 1.25% of credit risk RWAs.  

The following represents a roll-forward of the Company’s RWAs based on pro forma estimates of RWAs under the Advanced Approach from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

N/A—Not Applicable.  

      112    

Table of Contents 

VaR—Value-at-Risk.  

 (1) The RWAs for each category in the above table reflect both on- and off-balance sheet exposures, where appropriate.  

 (2) Represents the estimated impact of the change in methodology to present December 31, 2013 RWAs on a pro forma basis under the U.S. Basel III Advanced Approach transitional rules.  

 (3) Amount reflects assets not in a defined category, non-material portfolios of exposures and unsettled transactions.  

The Company is required to calculate capital ratios under both the Advanced Approach and the Standardized Approach, represented as U.S. Basel I as supplemented by Basel 2.5, as of December 31, 2014, in both cases subject to transitional provisions. The capital ratios calculated under the Advanced Approach were lower than those calculated under the Standardized Approach, represented as U.S. Basel I as supplemented by Basel 2.5, and therefore, are the binding ratios for the Company at December 31, 2014 as a result of the capital floor.  

The following table summarizes the Company’s Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Additional Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

N/A—Not Applicable.  

    113      

Table of Contents 

 (1) The standards applicable in 2013 included U.S. Basel I as supplemented by Basel 2.5.  

 (2) The aggregate balance of net after-tax debt valuation adjustment includes an approximate $69 million reconciling adjustment related to a prior period.  

 (3) For purposes of calculating capital ratios under the Advanced Approach, the allowance for loan losses cannot be included in Tier 2 capital. Instead, an Advanced Approach banking organization may include in Tier 2 capital any eligible credit reserves that exceed its total expected credit losses to the extent that the excess reserve amount does not exceed 0.6% of its Advanced Approach credit risk RWAs. The allowance for loan losses may continue to be included in Tier 2 capital for purposes of calculating capital ratios under U.S. Basel I and Basel 2.5 and under the Standardized Approach, up to 1.25% of credit risk RWAs.  

The following table presents the Company’s RWAs and regulatory capital ratios at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

N/A—Not Applicable.  

 (1) The standards applicable in 2013 included U.S. Basel I as supplemented by Basel 2.5. The Company’s Total capital, Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 common capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios and RWAs at December 31, 2013 were calculated under this framework.  

The following table presents the Company’s pro forma estimates under the fully phased-in Advanced Approach and the fully phased-in U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach at December 31, 2014:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

These fully phased-in basis pro forma estimates are based on the Company’s current understanding of U.S. Basel III and other factors, which may be subject to change as the Company receives additional clarification and implementation guidance from the Federal Reserve relating to U.S. Basel III and as the interpretation of the regulation evolves over time. The fully phased-in basis pro forma Common Equity Tier 1 capital, RWAs and Common Equity Tier 1 risked-based capital ratio estimates are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company considers to be useful measures for evaluating compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that were not yet effective at December 31, 2014. These preliminary estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially and should not be taken as a projection of what the Company’s capital ratios, RWAs, earnings or other results will actually be at future dates. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.  

      114    

Table of Contents 

On a fully phased-in basis, the Company will be subject to the following minimum capital ratios under U.S. Basel III: Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%; Total capital ratio of 8.0%; Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4.0%; and supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%. In addition, on a fully phased-in basis by 2019, the Company will be subject to a greater than 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer and, if deployed by banking regulators, up to a 2.5% Common Equity Tier 1 countercyclical buffer. The capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, if any, apply over each of the Company’s Common Equity Tier 1, Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios. Failure to maintain such buffers will result in restrictions on the Company’s ability to make capital distributions, including the payment of dividends and the repurchase of stock and to pay discretionary bonuses to executive officers. In addition, in December 2014, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would impose a risk-based capital surcharge on U.S. bank holding companies that are identified as G-SIBs. See “G-SIB Capital Surcharge” herein. Beginning in 2018, the Company will also be subject to enhanced supplementary leverage ratio standards (see “Supplementary Leverage Ratio” herein).  

Capital Plans and Stress Tests.   

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including the Company, which form part of the Federal Reserve’s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) framework. Under the Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule, the Company must submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by the Company and the Federal Reserve, so that the Federal Reserve may assess the Company’s systems and processes that incorporate forward-looking projections of revenues and losses to monitor and maintain its internal capital adequacy. The capital plan rule requires that such companies receive no objection from the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution. In addition, even with an approved capital plan, a large bank holding company must seek the approval of the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, it would not meet its regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. In addition, the Federal Reserve’s final rule on stress testing under the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Company to conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests. The rule also subjects the Company to an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve. The Company received no objection to its 2014 capital plan (see “Capital Management” herein). The Company expects that, on March 11, 2015, the Federal Reserve will provide its response to the Company’s 2015 capital plan, which was submitted to the Federal Reserve on January 5, 2015. On January 5, 2015, the Company submitted the results of its semi-annual stress test to the Federal Reserve. On March 5, 2015, the Federal Reserve will publish summary results of the supervisory stress tests of each large bank holding company, including the Company. In addition, the Company is required to disclose a summary of the results of its company-run stress tests within 15 days of the date the Federal Reserve discloses the results of the supervisory stress test.  

In February 2014, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule specifying how large bank holding companies, including the Company, must incorporate U.S. Basel III into their capital plans and Dodd-Frank Act stress tests beginning with the October 1, 2014 cycle. Among other things, the final rule requires a large bank holding company to project its Tier 1 Common capital ratio using the methodology of U.S. Basel I as supplemented by Basel 2.5 and its Common Equity Tier 1 ratio using U.S. Basel III Standardized Approach after giving effect to transition provisions. The final rule also requires Advanced Approach banking organizations that have exited from the parallel run, including the Company, to incorporate the Advanced Approach into their capital planning and company-run stress tests beginning with the October 1, 2015 cycle. In October 2014, the Federal Reserve revised its capital planning and stress testing regulations to, among other things, generally limit a large bank holding company’s ability to make capital distributions (other than scheduled payments on Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments) if the bank holding company’s net capital issuances are less than the amount indicated in its capital plan, and to shift the start and submission dates of the capital plan and stress test cycles beginning with the 2016 cycle.  

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires each of the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks to conduct an annual stress test. MSBNA submitted its 2015 annual company-run stress tests to the OCC on January 5, 2015 and will publish a  

    115      

Table of Contents 

 summary of its stress test results between March 15 and March 31, 2015. MSPBNA will submit its annual company-run stress tests to the OCC in March 2015, and publish the summary results between June 15 and June 30, 2015. In June 2014, the OCC issued a proposed rule to, among other things, shift the timing of the annual stress testing cycle that applies to the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks beginning with the 2016 cycle.  

G-SIB Capital Surcharge.  

Although U.S. Basel III is in effect, the U.S. banking agencies and the Basel Committee have each proposed, or are considering proposing, revisions to the regulatory capital framework that would modify the regulatory capital standards governing the Company and the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks. In December 2014, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rule that would impose risk-based capital surcharges on U.S. bank holding companies that are identified as G-SIBs. Although the Federal Reserve’s proposal is based upon the Basel Committee’s international G-SIB surcharge framework, the methodologies proposed by the Federal Reserve generally would result in G-SIB surcharges that are higher than the levels required by the Basel Committee framework and would directly take into account the extent of each U.S. G-SIB’s reliance on short-term wholesale funding. Under the proposal, a bank holding company identified as a G-SIB would calculate its G-SIB surcharge under two methods. The first would consider the G-SIB’s size, interconnectedness, cross-jurisdictional activity, substitutability and complexity, which is generally consistent with the methodology developed by the Basel Committee. The second method would use similar inputs, but would replace substitutability with use of short-term wholesale funding and generally would result in higher surcharges than the Basel Committee framework. A G-SIB’s surcharge would be the higher of the surcharges determined under the two methods. Under the proposal, the G-SIB surcharge must be satisfied using Common Equity Tier 1 capital and would function as an extension of the capital conservation buffer. The Federal Reserve estimates that its proposal could result in G-SIB surcharges ranging from 1.0% to 4.5% of a G-SIB’s RWAs. The surcharge proposal would be phased in between January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019. 

Supplementary Leverage Ratio.  

U.S. Basel III requires the Company and the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks to comply with supplementary leverage ratio requirements, which the U.S. banking agencies increased in 2014 above standards established by the Basel Committee. Specifically, beginning in 2018, the Company must maintain a Tier 1 supplementary leverage capital buffer of greater than 2% in addition to the 3% minimum supplementary leverage ratio (for a total of greater than 5%), in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends and stock repurchases, and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers. In addition, beginning in 2018, the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks must maintain a supplementary leverage ratio of 6% to be considered “well-capitalized.” The denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio, as revised by the U.S. banking agencies in 2014 to conform with revised leverage standards adopted by the Basel Committee, is calculated for each reporting quarter based on the average daily balance of consolidated on-balance sheet assets under U.S. GAAP less certain amounts deducted from Tier 1 capital at quarter-end and the average month-end balance of certain off-balance sheet exposures associated with derivatives (including centrally cleared derivatives and sold credit protection), repo-style transactions and other off-balance sheet items during the calendar quarter. The enhanced supplementary leverage ratio standards will become effective for both the Company and its U.S. Subsidiary Banks on January 1, 2018 with quarterly public disclosure beginning on January 1, 2015. 

The Company estimates its pro forma supplementary leverage ratio to be approximately 4.7% at December 31, 2014. This estimate utilizes a fully phased-in U.S. Basel III Tier 1 capital numerator and a denominator of approximately $1.19 trillion. The denominator represents the Company’s consolidated assets under U.S. GAAP as adjusted, among other items, by: (i) the addition of the potential future exposure for derivative contracts (including contracts cleared for clients), off-balance sheet exposures multiplied by their respective credit conversion factors, counterparty credit risk associated with repo-style transactions and the effective notional amount of sold credit protection reduced by certain qualifying purchased credit protection; and (ii) the subtraction of certain amounts deducted from Tier 1 capital under U.S. Basel III. The pro forma supplementary  

      116    

Table of Contents 

 leverage ratio estimate is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure for evaluating compliance with new regulatory capital requirements that have not yet become effective. The Company expects to achieve a supplementary leverage ratio of greater than 5% in 2015 through accretion of capital and other actions which may include derivative portfolio compression and other balance sheet optimization.  

The Company’s estimated supplementary leverage ratio is based upon its current interpretation and expectations regarding the implementation of applicable regulations and remains subject to ongoing review and revision. The Company’s expectations are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from estimates based on these regulations. Further, these expectations should not be taken as projections of what the Company’s supplemental leverage ratios or earnings, assets or exposures will actually be at future dates. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.  

Required Capital.  

The Company’s required capital (“Required Capital”) estimation is based on the Required Capital framework, an internal capital adequacy measure. This framework is a risk-based and leverage use-of-capital measure, which is compared with the Company’s regulatory capital to ensure that the Company maintains an amount of going concern capital after absorbing potential losses from extreme stress events, where applicable, at a point in time. The Company defines the difference between its regulatory capital and aggregate Required Capital as Parent capital. Average Common Equity Tier 1 capital, aggregate Required Capital and Parent capital for 2014 were approximately $57.6 billion, $38.4 billion and $19.2 billion, respectively. The Company generally holds Parent capital for prospective regulatory requirements, including U.S. Basel III transitional deductions and adjustments expected to reduce the Company’s capital through 2018. The increase in Parent capital from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014 was primarily driven by these transitional provisions. The Company also holds Parent capital for organic growth, acquisitions and other capital needs.  

Common Equity Tier 1 capital and common equity attribution to the business segments is based on capital usage calculated by the Required Capital framework as well as each business segment’s relative contribution to total Company Required Capital. Required Capital is assessed at each business segment and further attributed to product lines. This process is intended to align capital with the risks in each business segment in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis. The Required Capital framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. The Company will continue to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate.  

The following table presents the Company’s business segments’ and Parent’s average Common Equity Tier 1 capital and average common equity for 2014 and average Tier 1 Common capital and average common equity for 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    117      

Table of Contents 

Resolution and Recovery Planning.  

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is required to submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes its strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure of the Company. On August 5, 2014, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC notified the Company and 10 other large banking organizations that certain shortcomings in their 2013 resolution plans must be addressed in the 2015 resolution plans, which must be submitted on or before July 1, 2015. If the Federal Reserve and the FDIC were to determine that the Company’s resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an orderly resolution and the Company does not cure the plan’s deficiencies, the Company or any of its subsidiaries may be subjected to more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity requirements or restrictions on its growth, activities, or operations, or the Company may be required to divest assets or operations.  

In addition, MSBNA must submit to the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes MSBNA’s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of the material financial distress or failure of MSBNA. On December 17, 2014, the FDIC issued guidance regarding the resolution plans for insured depository institutions such as MSBNA, including requirements with respect to failure scenarios and the development and analysis of a range of realistic resolution strategies.  

Further, the Company is required to submit an annual recovery plan to the Federal Reserve that outlines the steps that management could take over time to reduce risk, increase liquidity, and conserve capital in times of prolonged stress.  

Certain of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries are also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate.  

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as the Company and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to resolution under an orderly liquidation authority with the FDIC appointed as receiver with considerable powers. A financial company whose largest U.S. subsidiary is a broker or dealer could be resolved under this authority only upon the recommendation of two-thirds of the Federal Reserve Board and two-thirds of the SEC Commissioners, on their own initiative or at the request of the U.S. Treasury Secretary, and in consultation with the FDIC as well as a determination by the U.S. Treasury Secretary in consultation with the President of the U.S. In December 2013, the FDIC released its proposed single point of entry strategy for resolution of a systemically important financial institution under the orderly liquidation authority. The strategy involves placing the top-tier U.S. holding company in receivership and keeping its operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring the operating subsidiaries to a new bridge holding company, recapitalizing the operating subsidiaries and imposing losses on the shareholders and creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority.  

The Federal Reserve has indicated that it may also introduce a requirement that certain large bank holding companies maintain a minimum amount of long-term debt at the holding company level to facilitate orderly resolution of those firms. In November 2014, the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) issued a policy proposal to establish a minimum international standard for total loss-absorbing capacity (“TLAC”) for G-SIBs, in addition to regulatory capital requirements, in order to enhance the loss-absorbing and recapitalization capacity of such institutions in resolution. The FSB’s proposed minimum TLAC requirement would be set within the range of 16% to 20% of RWAs (excluding any applicable regulatory capital buffers, which would continue to be required in addition to the minimum TLAC requirement) and at least twice the minimum Basel III Tier 1 leverage ratio requirement. Regulators may also impose an additional TLAC requirement taking into account the G-SIB’s recovery and resolution plans, systemic footprint, business model, risk profile and organizational structure. The minimum TLAC requirement would apply to each entity to which resolution tools would be applied within a G-SIB. The FSB has proposed eligibility criteria for liabilities to qualify as TLAC and a requirement that TLAC-eligible liabilities be subordinated to non-TLAC-eligible liabilities. In addition, certain material entities that are not resolution entities would be subject to an internal TLAC requirement. According to the FSB, the conformance period for the TLAC requirement would not begin prior to January 1, 2019.  

      118    

Table of Contents 

For further information on the Company’s Resolution Planning, see “Business—Supervision and Regulation—Resolution and Recovery Planning” in Part I, Item 1.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements with Unconsolidated Entities.  

The Company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its Institutional Securities and Investment Management business segments.  

Institutional Securities Activities. The Company utilizes special purpose entities (“SPE”) primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the Company’s consolidated statements of income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively, substantially all of which were related to U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage loan and residential mortgage loan securitization transactions. For further information about the Company’s securitization activities, see Note 7 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs or require that such assets first be sold in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see Notes 7 and 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

Investment Management Activities. As a general partner in certain private equity and real estate partnerships, the Company receives distributions from the partnerships according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in various partnership agreements, subject to certain limitations. These amounts are noted in the table below under “General partner guarantees.”  

Guarantees. The Company discloses information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. Guarantees are defined as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Guarantees are also defined as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity’s failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.  

    119      

Table of Contents 

The table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company’s obligations under guarantee arrangements at December 31, 2014:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Carrying amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on derivative contracts, see Note 12 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

 (2) Approximately $2.1 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the “Commitments” table below in primary and secondary lending commitments. Standby letters of credit are recorded at fair value within Trading assets or Trading liabilities in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition.  

In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

See Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information on other guarantees and indemnities.  

Commitments and Contractual Obligations.  

The Company’s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment activities, corporate lending and financing arrangements, and mortgage lending at December 31, 2014 are summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments  

      120    

Table of Contents 

 associated with these instruments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Total amount includes $49.9 billion of investment grade and $13.0 billion of non-investment grade unfunded commitments accounted for as held for investment and $8.4 billion of investment grade and $7.4 billion of non-investment grade unfunded commitments accounted for as held for sale at December 31, 2014. The remainder of these lending commitments is carried at fair value.  

 (2) These commitments are recorded at fair value within Trading assets and Trading liabilities in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition (see Note 4 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

 (3) The Company enters into forward starting reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements (agreements that have a trade date at or prior to December 31, 2014 and settle subsequent to period-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations. These agreements primarily settle within three business days, and of the total amount at December 31, 2014, $41.2 billion settled within three business days.  

 (4) The Company also has a contingent obligation to provide financing to a clearinghouse through which it clears certain transactions. The financing is required only upon the default of a clearinghouse member. The financing takes the form of a reverse repurchase facility, with a maximum amount of approximately $0.5 billion.  

For a further description of these commitments, see Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk” in Item 7A.  

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases and purchase obligations.  

    121      

Table of Contents 

The Company’s future cash payments associated with certain of its obligations at December 31, 2014 are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) See Note 11 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Amounts presented for Other secured financings are financings with original maturities greater than one year.  

 (2) Amounts represent estimated future contractual interest payments related to unsecured long-term borrowings based on applicable interest rates at December 31, 2014. Amounts include stated coupon rates, if any, on structured or index-linked notes.  

 (3) Amounts represent contractual principal and interest payments related to time deposits primarily held at the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks.  

 (4) See Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

 (5) Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements, and certain transmission, transportation and storage contracts related to the commodities business. Purchase obligations at December 31, 2014 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition.  

 (6) Amounts exclude unrecognized tax benefits, as the timing and amount of future cash payments are not determinable at this time (see Note 20 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information).  

Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.  

To the extent that an increased inflation outlook results in rising interest rates or has negative impacts on the valuation of financial instruments that exceed the impact on the value of the Company’s liabilities, it may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and profitability. Rising inflation may also result in increases in the Company’s non-interest expenses that may not be readily recoverable in higher prices of services offered.  

A significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar, therefore, can affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company’s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows.  

      122    

Table of Contents 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.