Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  

Risk Management.  

Overview.  

Management believes effective risk management is vital to the success of the Company’s business activities. Accordingly, the Company has established an enterprise risk management (“ERM”) framework to integrate the diverse roles of risk management into a holistic enterprise structure and to facilitate the incorporation of risk assessment into decision-making processes across the Company. Risk is an inherent part of the Company’s businesses and activities. The Company has policies and procedures in place to identify, measure, monitor, advise, challenge and control the principal risks involved in the activities of its Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management business segments as well as at the holding company level. The principal risks involved in the Company’s business activities include market (including non-trading interest rate risk), credit, operational, liquidity and funding, franchise and reputational risk. Strategic risk is integrated into the Company’s business planning, embedded in the evaluation of all principal risks and overseen by the Company’s Board of Directors (the “Board”).  

The cornerstone of the Company’s risk management philosophy is the pursuit of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk-taking that protects the Company’s capital base and franchise, and is implemented through the ERM framework. Five key principles underlie this philosophy: integrity, comprehensiveness, independence, accountability and transparency. To help ensure the efficacy of risk management, which is an essential component of the Company’s reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and the appropriate escalation of risk matters. The fast-paced, complex and constantly evolving nature of global financial markets requires that the Company maintain a risk management culture that is incisive, knowledgeable about specialized products and markets, and subject to ongoing review and enhancement. In 2014, the Company established a formal Culture, Values and Conduct Program, which it will enhance in 2015.  

Risk Governance Structure.  

Risk management at the Company requires independent company-level oversight, accountability of the Company’s business divisions, and effective communication of risk matters across the Company, to senior management and ultimately to the Board. The Company’s risk governance structure is composed of the Board; the Risk Committee of the Board (“BRC”), the Audit Committee of the Board (“BAC”), and the Operations and Technology Committee of the Board (“BOTC”); the Firm Risk Committee (“FRC”); the functional risk and control committees; senior management oversight (including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Compliance Officer); the Internal Audit Department and risk managers, committees, and groups within and across the Company’s business segments. The Company’s ERM framework composed of independent but complementary entities facilitates efficient and comprehensive supervision of the Company’s risk exposures and processes.  

    123      

Table of Contents 

Morgan Stanley Board of Directors. The Board has oversight for the Company’s ERM framework is responsible for helping to ensure that the Company’s risks are managed in a sound manner. The Board has authorized the committees within the ERM framework to help facilitate its risk oversight responsibilities. As set forth in the Company’s Corporate Governance Policies, the Board also oversees, and receives reports on, the Company’s practices and procedures relating to culture, values and conduct.  

Risk Committee of the Board. The BRC is composed of non-management directors. The BRC is responsible for assisting the Board in the oversight of the Company’s global ERM framework; the major risk exposures of the Company, including market, credit, operational, liquidity and funding, franchise and reputational risk; the Company’s risk appetite statement, including risk limits and tolerances; risk management and risk assessment guidelines; and the performance of the Chief Risk Officer. The BRC reports to the entire Board on a regular basis and the entire Board attends quarterly BRC meetings.  

Audit Committee of the Board. The BAC is composed of independent directors. The BAC is responsible for oversight of the integrity of the Company’s consolidated financial statements, the Company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the Company’s system of internal controls, the qualifications and independence of the Company’s independent auditor, and the performance of the Company’s internal and independent auditors. In addition, the BAC assists the Board and the BRC in its oversight of certain aspects of risk management, including review of the major legal and compliance risk exposures of the Company and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures, as well as guidelines and policies that govern the process for risk assessment and risk management. The BAC reports to the entire Board, including the BRC, on a regular basis.  

Operations and Technology Committee of the Board. The BOTC is composed of non-management directors. The BOTC is responsible for reviewing the major operations and technology risk exposures of the Company, including cybersecurity risk, and the steps management has taken to monitor and control such exposures. Additionally, the BOTC is responsible for assisting the Board in its oversight of the Company’s operations and technology strategy, including significant investments in support of such strategy. The BOTC is also responsible for the review and approval of operations and technology policies, as well as the review of the Company’s risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding operations and technology risk. The BOTC reports to the entire Board, including the BRC, on a regular basis.  

      124    

Table of Contents 

Firm Risk Committee. The Board has also authorized the FRC, a management committee appointed and chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, which includes the most senior officers of the Company, including the Chief Risk Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to oversee the Company’s global ERM framework. The FRC’s responsibilities include oversight of the Company’s risk management principles, procedures and limits and the monitoring of capital levels and material market, credit, operational, liquidity and funding, franchise and reputational risk matters, and other risks, as appropriate, and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. The FRC also establishes and communicates risk tolerance, including aggregate Company limits and tolerance, as appropriate. The FRC reports to the entire Board, the BAC, the BOTC and the BRC through the Company’s Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Legal Officer.  

Functional Risk and Control Committees. Functional risk and control committees comprising the ERM framework, including the Firm Credit Risk Committee, the Operational Risk Oversight Committee, the Asset/Liability Management Committee, the Global Compliance Committee, the Technology Governance Committee and the Franchise Committee, facilitate efficient and comprehensive supervision of the Company’s risk exposures and processes. The Strategic Transactions Committee reviews large strategic transactions and principal investments for the Company; the CCAR/RRP Committee oversees the Company’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, Dodd-Frank Act Stress Testing and Title I Resolution Plan and Recovery Plan; the Global Legal Entity Oversight and Governance Committee monitors the governance framework that operates over the Company’s consolidated legal entity population; the FHC Governance Committee oversees the Company’s initiatives relating to its status as a financial holding company; and the Culture, Values and Conduct Committee, established in January 2015, is charged with developing Company-wide standards and overseeing initiatives relating to culture, values and conduct, including training and enhancements to performance and compensation processes.  

In addition, each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for helping to ensure that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies, procedures, controls and systems that are consistent with the risk framework established by the FRC; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related controls.  

Chief Risk Officer. The Chief Risk Officer, who is independent of business units, reports to the Chief Executive Officer and the BRC. The Chief Risk Officer oversees compliance with the Company’s risk limits; approves exceptions to the Company’s risk limits; independently reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the Board, the BRC and the BAC, as appropriate. The Chief Risk Officer also coordinates with the Chief Financial Officer regarding capital and liquidity management and works with the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board to help ensure that the structure and design of incentive compensation arrangements do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risk-taking.  

Internal Audit Department. The Internal Audit Department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the BAC. The Internal Audit Department provides an independent assessment of the Company’s control environment and risk management processes using a risk-based methodology developed from professional auditing standards. The Internal Audit Department also assists in assessing the Company’s compliance with internal guidelines set for risk management and risk monitoring as well as external rules and regulations governing the industry. It affects these responsibilities through risk-based reviews of the Company’s processes, activities, products or information systems; targeted reviews of specific controls and activities; pre-implementation audits of new or significantly changed processes, activities, products or information systems; and special investigations required as a result of internal factors or regulatory requests.  

Independent Risk Management Functions. The independent risk management function (Market Risk, Credit Risk and Operational Risk Management Departments) are independent of the Company’s business units. These  

    125      

Table of Contents 

 functions assist senior management and the FRC in monitoring and controlling the Company’s risk through a number of control processes. Each function maintains its own risk governance structure with specified individuals and committees responsible for aspects of managing risk. Further discussion about the responsibilities of the risk management functions may be found below under “Market Risk,” “Credit Risk,” and “Operational Risk.”  

Support and Control Groups. The Company’s support and control groups include the Legal Department, the Compliance Department, the Finance Division, the Operations Division, the Technology and Data Division, and the Human Resources Department. The Company’s support and control groups coordinate with the business segment control groups to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, controls over financial reporting and disclosure; the business segment’s market, credit and operational risk profile; liquidity risks; sales practices; reputational, legal enforceability, compliance and regulatory risk; and operational and technological risks. Participation by the senior officers of the Company and business segment control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo thorough review.  

Culture, Values and Conduct of Employees. All of the Company’s employees have accountability for risk management. The Company strives to establish a culture of effective risk management through its defined core values, governance framework, management oversight, training and development programs, policies, procedures, and defined roles and responsibilities within the Company. The actions and conduct of each employee are essential to risk management. The Company’s Code of Conduct (the “Code”) has been established to provide a framework and standards for employee conduct that further reinforces the Company’s commitment to integrity and high ethical standards. Every new hire and every employee annually must certify to their understanding of and adherence to the Code. The employee annual review process includes evaluation of adherence to the Code. The Global Incentive Compensation Discretion Policy sets forth standards that specifically provide that managers must consider whether the employee effectively managed and supervised the risk control practices of his/her employee reports during the performance year. The Company has several mutually reinforcing processes to identify incidents of employee conduct that may have an impact on the employment status, current year compensation or prior-year compensation. The Company’s clawback and cancellation provisions permit recovery of deferred incentive compensation where, for example, an employee’s act or omission (including with respect to direct supervisory responsibilities) causes a restatement of the Company’s consolidated financial results, constitutes a violation of the Company’s global risk management principles, policies and standards, or causes a loss of revenue associated with a position on which the employee was paid and the employee operated outside of internal control policies.  

Stress Value-at-Risk.  

The Company frequently enhances its market and credit risk management framework to address severe stresses that are observed in global markets during economic downturns. During 2014, the Company expanded and improved its risk measurement processes, including stress tests and scenario analysis, and further refined its market and credit risk limit framework. Stress Value-at-Risk (“S-VaR”), a proprietary methodology that comprehensively measures the Company’s market and credit risks, was further refined and continues to be an important metric used in establishing the Company’s risk appetite and its capital allocation framework. S-VaR simulates many stress scenarios based on more than 25 years of historical data and attempts to capture the different liquidities of various types of general and specific risks. Additionally, S-VaR captures event and default risks that are particularly relevant for credit portfolios.  

Risk Management Process.  

The following is a discussion of the Company’s risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (capital and liquidity risk is discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7). The discussion focuses on the Company’s  

      126    

Table of Contents 

 securities activities (primarily its institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. The Company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. This discussion and the estimated amounts of the Company’s risk exposure generated by the Company’s statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. However, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due to events in the markets in which the Company operates and certain other factors described below.  

Market Risk.  

Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. Generally, the Company incurs market risk as a result of trading, investing and client facilitation activities, principally within the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment where the substantial majority of the Company’s Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) for market risk exposures is generated. In addition, the Company incurs trading-related market risk within its Wealth Management business segment. The Company’s Investment Management business segment incurs principally Non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in real estate funds and investments in private equity vehicles.  

Sound market risk management is an integral part of the Company’s culture. The various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. The control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior management. The Company’s Market Risk Department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. To execute these responsibilities, the Company’s Market Risk Department monitors the Company’s risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains the Company’s VaR and scenario analysis systems. These limits are designed to control price and market liquidity risk. Market risk is also monitored through various measures: by use of statistics (including VaR, S-VaR and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of specified changes in market factors, and scenario analyses conducted by the Company’s Market Risk Department in collaboration with the business units. The material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the Company’s Market Risk Department that are circulated to and discussed with senior management, the FRC, the BRC and the Board.  

The Chief Risk Officer, among other things, monitors market risk through the Company’s Market Risk Department, which reports to the Chief Risk Officer and is independent of the business units, and has close interactions with senior management and the risk management control groups in the business units. The Chief Risk Officer is a member of the FRC, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, which includes the most senior officers of the Company, and regularly reports on market risk matters to this committee, as well as to the BRC and the Board.  

Sales and Trading and Related Activities.  

Primary Market Risk Exposures and Market Risk Management. During 2014, the Company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices—and the associated implied volatilities and spreads—related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities.  

The Company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and other trading in interest rate-sensitive financial instruments (e.g., risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads).  

    127      

Table of Contents 

 The activities from which those exposures arise and the markets in which the Company is active include, but are not limited to, the following: corporate and government debt across both developed and emerging markets and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities).  

The Company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining other positions (including positions in non-public entities). Positions in non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. Such positions are less liquid, have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed equities.  

The Company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange positions and from holding non-U.S. dollar-denominated financial instruments.  

The Company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining commodity positions in physical commodities (such as crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. Commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. These changes can be caused by weather conditions; physical production, transportation and storage issues; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities.  

The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). Hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. The Company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the Company’s aggregate risk tolerance as established by the Company’s senior management.  

Aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the Company across all divisions worldwide. Additional market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the Company’s Market Risk Department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with policies set by senior management.  

VaR. The Company uses the statistical technique known as VaR as one of the tools used to measure, monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. The Company’s Market Risk Department calculates and distributes daily VaR-based risk measures to various levels of management.  

VaR Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations. The Company estimates VaR using a model based on volatility-adjusted historical simulation for general market risk factors and Monte Carlo simulation for name-specific risk in corporate shares, bonds, loans and related derivatives. The model constructs a distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on the following: historical observation of daily changes in key market indices or other market risk factors; and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. The Company’s VaR model uses four years of historical data with a volatility adjustment to reflect current market conditions. The Company’s VaR for risk management purposes (“Management VaR”) is computed at a 95% level of confidence over a one-day time horizon, which is a useful indicator of possible trading losses resulting from adverse daily market moves. The Company’s 95%/one-day VaR corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day.  

      128    

Table of Contents 

The Company’s VaR model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to equity and commodity price risk, interest rate risk, credit spread risk and foreign exchange rates. The model also takes into account linear exposures to implied volatility risks for all asset classes and non-linear exposures to implied volatility risks for equity, commodity and foreign exchange referenced products. The VaR model also captures certain implied correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives as well as certain basis risks (e.g., corporate debt and related credit derivatives).  

The Company uses VaR as one of a range of risk management tools. Among their benefits, VaR models permit estimation of a portfolio’s aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks and portfolio assets. One key element of the VaR model is that it reflects risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities. However, VaR has various limitations, which include, but are not limited to: use of historical changes in market risk factors, which may not be accurate predictors of future market conditions and may not fully incorporate the risk of extreme market events that are outsized relative to observed historical market behavior or reflect the historical distribution of results beyond the 95% confidence interval; and reporting of losses in a single day, which does not reflect the risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged in one day. A small proportion of market risk generated by trading positions is not included in VaR. The modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies on approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different results from those produced using more precise measures. VaR is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. The Company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses VaR as only one component in its risk management oversight process. This process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis and control at the trading desk, division and Company levels.  

The Company’s VaR model evolves over time in response to changes in the composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. The Company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of VaR methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated with changes in market structure and dynamics. As part of the Company’s regular process improvements, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the VaR model’s ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset classes or industry sectors.  

Since the reported VaR statistics are estimates based on historical data, VaR should not be viewed as predictive of the Company’s future revenues or financial performance or of its ability to monitor and manage risk. There can be no assurance that the Company’s actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the VaR amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading days for a 95%/one-day VaR. VaR does not predict the magnitude of losses which, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the VaR amount.  

VaR statistics are not readily comparable across firms because of differences in the firms’ portfolios, modeling assumptions and methodologies. These differences can result in materially different VaR estimates across firms for similar portfolios. The impact of such differences varies depending on the factor history assumptions, the frequency with which the factor history is updated and the confidence level. As a result, VaR statistics are more useful when interpreted as indicators of trends in a firm’s risk profile rather than as an absolute measure of risk to be compared across firms.  

The Company utilizes the same VaR model for risk management purposes as well as for regulatory capital calculations. The Company’s VaR model has been approved by the Company’s regulators for use in regulatory capital calculations.  

The portfolio of positions used for the Company’s Management VaR differs from that used for regulatory capital requirements (“Regulatory VaR”), as Management VaR contains certain positions that are excluded from Regulatory VaR. Examples include counterparty credit valuation adjustments and related hedges, as well as loans  

    129      

Table of Contents 

 that are carried at fair value and associated hedges. Additionally, the Company’s Management VaR excludes certain risks contained in its Regulatory VaR, such as hedges to counterparty exposures related to the Company’s own credit spread.  

Table 1 below presents the Management VaR for the Company’s Trading portfolio, on a period-end, annual average and annual high and low basis. The Credit Portfolio is disclosed as a separate category from the Primary Risk Categories, and includes counterparty credit valuation adjustments and related hedges, as well as loans that are carried at fair value and associated hedges.  

Trading Risks.  

The table below presents the Company’s 95%/one-day Management VaR:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

N/A—Not Applicable  

 (1) Diversification benefit equals the difference between the total Management VaR and the sum of the component VaRs. This benefit arises because the simulated one-day losses for each of the components occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each component.  

 (2) The high and low VaR values for the total Management VaR and each of the component VaRs might have occurred on different days during the year, and therefore, the diversification benefit is not an applicable measure.  

The Company’s average Management VaR for the Primary Risk Categories for 2014 was $43 million compared with $53 million for 2013. The decrease was primarily driven by reduced exposure to credit spread and commodity products.  

The Company’s average Total Management VaR for 2014 was $47 million compared with $59 million for 2013. This decrease was driven by the reduced risk in Primary Risk Categories.  

Distribution of VaR Statistics and Net Revenues for 2014.  

One method of evaluating the reasonableness of the Company’s VaR model as a measure of the Company’s potential volatility of net revenues is to compare the VaR with actual trading revenues. Assuming no intraday trading, for a 95%/one-day VaR, the expected number of times that trading losses should exceed VaR during the year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed VaR more than 21 times in a year, the adequacy of the VaR model would be questioned. The Company evaluates the reasonableness of its VaR model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results for the Company, as well as individual business units. For days where losses exceed the VaR statistic, the Company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the VaR model’s accuracy relative to realized trading results.  

The distribution of VaR Statistics and Net Revenues is presented in the histograms below for both the Primary Risk Categories and the Total Trading populations.  

      130    

Table of Contents 

Primary Risk Categories.  

As shown in Table 1, the Company’s average 95%/one-day Primary Risk Categories VaR for 2014 was $43 million. The histogram below presents the distribution of the Company’s daily 95%/one-day Primary Risk Categories VaR for 2014, which was in a range between $35 million and $50 million for approximately 94% of the trading days during the year.  

    131      

Table of Contents 

The histogram below shows the distribution for 2014 of daily net trading revenues, including profits and losses from positions included in VaR for the Company’s businesses that comprise the Primary Risk Categories. Daily net trading revenues also include intraday trading activities but exclude certain items not captured in the VaR model, such as fees, commissions and net interest income. Daily net trading revenues differ from the definition of revenues required for Regulatory VaR backtesting, which further excludes intraday trading. During 2014, the Company’s businesses that comprise the Primary Risk Categories experienced net trading losses on 25 days, of which no day was in excess of the 95%/one-day Primary Risk Categories VaR.  

      132    

Table of Contents 

Total Trading—Including the Primary Risk Categories and the Credit Portfolio.  

As shown in Table 1, the Company’s average 95%/one-day Total Management VaR, which includes the Primary Risk Categories and the Credit Portfolio, for 2014 was $47 million. The histogram below presents the distribution of the Company’s daily 95%/one-day Total Management VaR for 2014, which was in a range between $40 million and $55 million for approximately 91% of trading days during the year.  

    133      

Table of Contents 

The histogram below shows the distribution for 2014 of daily net trading revenues, including profits and losses from Primary Risk Categories, Credit Portfolio positions and intraday trading activities, for the Company’s Trading businesses. Daily net trading revenues also include intraday trading activities but exclude certain items not captured in the VaR model, such as fees, commissions and net interest income. Daily net trading revenues differ from the definition of revenues required for Regulatory VaR backtesting, which further excludes intraday trading. During 2014, the Company experienced net trading losses on 32 days, of which no day was in excess of the 95%/one-day Total Management VaR.  

Non-trading Risks.  

The Company believes that sensitivity analysis is an appropriate representation of the Company’s non-trading risks. Reflected below is this analysis covering substantially all of the non-trading risk in the Company’s portfolio.  

Counterparty Exposure Related to the Company’s Own Credit Spread.  

The credit spread risk relating to the Company’s own mark-to-market derivative counterparty exposure is managed separately from VaR. The credit spread risk sensitivity of this exposure corresponds to an increase in value of approximately $6 million and $5 million for each 1 basis point widening in the Company’s credit spread level for December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively.  

Funding Liabilities.  

The credit spread risk sensitivity of the Company’s mark-to-market funding liabilities corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $10 million and $11 million for each 1 basis point widening in the Company’s credit spread level for December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively.  

Interest Rate Risk Sensitivity on Income from Continuing Operations.  

The Company measures the interest rate risk of certain assets and liabilities by calculating the hypothetical sensitivity of net interest income to potential changes in the level of interest rates over the next 12 months. This  

      134    

Table of Contents 

 sensitivity analysis includes positions that are mark-to-market, as well as positions that are accounted for on an accrual basis. For interest rate derivatives that are perfect economic hedges to non-mark-to-market assets or liabilities, the disclosed sensitivities include only the impact of the coupon accrual mismatch.  

The hypothetical model does not assume any growth, change in business focus, asset pricing philosophy or asset/liability funding mix and does not capture how the Company would respond to significant changes in market conditions. Furthermore, the model does not reflect the Company’s expectations regarding the movement of interest rates in the near term nor the actual effect on income from continuing operations before income taxes if such changes were to occur.  

Given the current low interest rate environment, the Company uses the following interest rate scenarios to quantify the Company’s interest rate risk sensitivity: instantaneous parallel shocks of 100 and 200 basis point increases and a 100 basis point decrease to all points on all yield curves simultaneously.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) N/M—Not Meaningful given the current low interest rate environment.  

Due to the non-trading nature of the assets and liabilities in the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks, net interest income sensitivity is computed and analyzed by management for both upward and downward movements in the yield curve. The Company uses the following interest rate scenarios to quantify the Company’s U.S. Subsidiary Banks’ interest rate risk sensitivity: instantaneous parallel shocks of 100 and 200 basis point increases and a 100 basis point decrease to all points on all yield curves simultaneously.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Investments.  

The Company makes investments in both public and private companies. These investments are predominantly equity positions with long investment horizons, the majority of which are for business facilitation purposes. The market risk related to these investments is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net income associated with a 10% decline in investment values.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    135      

Table of Contents 

Equity Market Sensitivity.  

In the Company’s Wealth Management and Investment Management business segments, certain fee-based revenue streams are driven by the value of clients’ equity holdings. The overall level of revenues for these streams also depends on multiple additional factors that include, but are not limited to, the level and duration of the equity market decline, price volatility, the geographic and industry mix of client assets, the rate and magnitude of client investments and redemptions, and the impact of such market decline and price volatility on client behavior. Therefore, overall revenues do not correlate completely with changes in the equity markets.  

Credit Risk.  

Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations to the Company. Credit risk includes the risk that economic, social and political conditions and events in a foreign country will adversely affect an obligor’s ability and willingness to fulfill their obligations. The Company primarily incurs credit risk exposure to institutions and individuals mainly through its Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments.  

The Company may incur credit risk in its Institutional Securities business segment through a variety of activities, including, but not limited to, the following:  

   •    entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to the Company;  

   •    extending credit to clients through various lending commitments;  

   •    providing short- or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount;  

   •    posting margin and/or collateral to clearinghouses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties;  

   •    placing funds on deposit at other financial institutions to support the Company’s clearing and settlement obligations; and  

   •    investing or trading in securities and loan pools, whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans.  

The Company incurs credit risk in its Wealth Management business segment, primarily through lending to individuals and entities, including, but not limited to, the following:  

   •    margin loans collateralized by securities;  

   •    securities-based and other forms of secured loans; and  

   •    single-family residential mortgage loans in conforming, non-conforming or home equity lines of credit (“HELOC”) form, primarily to existing Wealth Management clients.  

Monitoring and Control.  

In order to help protect the Company from losses, the Company’s Credit Risk Management Department establishes company-wide practices to evaluate, monitor and control credit risk exposure at the transaction, obligor and portfolio levels. The Company’s Credit Risk Management Department approves extensions of credit, evaluates the creditworthiness of the Company’s counterparties and borrowers on a regular basis, and ensures that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. The evaluation of counterparties and borrowers includes an assessment of the probability that an obligor will default on its financial obligations and any losses that may occur when an obligor defaults. In addition, credit risk exposure is actively managed by credit professionals and committees within the Company’s Credit Risk Management Department and through various risk committees,  

      136    

Table of Contents 

 whose membership includes individuals from the Company’s Credit Risk Management Department. A comprehensive and global Credit Limits Framework is utilized to manage credit risk levels across the Company. The Credit Limits Framework is calibrated within the Company’s risk tolerance and includes single-name limits and portfolio concentration limits by country, industry and product type. The Company’s Credit Risk Management Department ensures transparency of material credit risks, compliance with established limits and escalation of risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. The Company’s Credit Risk Management Department also works closely with the Company’s Market Risk Department and applicable business units to monitor risk exposures and to perform stress tests to identify, analyze and control credit risk concentrations arising in the Company’s lending and trading activities. The stress tests shock market factors (e.g., interest rates, commodity prices, credit spreads), risk parameters (e.g., default probabilities and loss given default), recovery rates and expected losses in order to assess the impact of stresses on exposures, profit and loss, and the Company’s capital position. Stress and scenario tests are conducted in accordance with established Company policies and procedures.  

Credit Evaluation. The evaluation of corporate and institutional counterparties and certain high net worth borrowers includes assigning obligor credit ratings, which reflect an assessment of an obligor’s probability of default and loss given default. Credit evaluations typically involve the assessment of financial statements; leverage; liquidity; capital strength; asset composition and quality; market capitalization; access to capital markets; adequacy of collateral, if applicable; and in the case of certain loans, cash flow projections and debt service requirements. The Company’s Credit Risk Management Department also evaluates strategy, market position, industry dynamics, management and other factors that could affect the obligor’s risk profile. Additionally, the Company’s Credit Risk Management Department evaluates the relative position of the Company’s exposure in the borrower’s capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as adequacy of collateral (if applicable) and other structural elements of the particular transaction.  

The evaluation of consumer borrowers is tailored to the specific type of lending. Margin and securities-based loans are evaluated based on factors that include, but are not limited to, the amount of the loan, the degree of leverage and the quality, diversification, price volatility and liquidity of the collateral. The underwriting of residential real estate loans includes, but is not limited to, review of the obligor’s income, net worth, liquidity, collateral, loan-to-value ratio and credit bureau information. Subsequent credit monitoring for residential real estate loans is performed at the portfolio level, and for consumer loans, collateral values are monitored on an ongoing basis.  

Credit risk metrics assigned to the Company’s borrowers during the evaluation process are incorporated into the Company’s Credit Risk Management Department’s maintenance of the allowance for loan losses for the loans held for investment portfolio. Such allowance serves as a reserve for probable inherent losses as well as probable losses related to loans identified for impairment. For more information on the Company’s allowance for loan losses, see Notes 2 and 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Risk Mitigation. The Company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and trading activities in multiple ways, including collateral provisions, guarantees and hedges. At the transaction level, the Company seeks to mitigate risk through management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, financial covenants, seniority and collateral. The Company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments that may include single-name, portfolio and structured credit derivatives. Additionally, the Company may sell, assign or syndicate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. In connection with its derivatives trading activities, the Company generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide the Company with the ability to demand collateral, as well as to liquidate collateral and offset receivables and payables covered under the same master agreement in the event of a counterparty default.  

    137      

Table of Contents 

Lending Activities.  

The Company provides loans to a variety of customers, from large corporate and institutional clients to high net worth individuals. In addition, the Company purchases loans in the secondary market. Loans held for investment and loans held for sale are classified in Loans, and loans held at fair value are classified in Trading assets in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition. See Notes 4 and 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.  

The following tables present the Company’s loan portfolio by loan type within its Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) In addition to loans, at December 31, 2014, $62.9 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for as held for investment, $15.8 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for as held for sale and $3.3 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for at fair value.  

 (2) In addition to loans, at December 31, 2014, $2.3 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for as held for investment, $0.8 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for as held for sale and $2.1 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for at fair value.  

 (3) In addition to loans, at December 31, 2014, $5.0 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for as held for investment.  

 (4) Amounts exclude customer margin loans outstanding of $29.0 billion and employee loans outstanding of $5.1 billion at December 31, 2014. See Notes 6 and 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.  

      138    

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) In addition to loans, at December 31, 2013, $61.4 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for as held for investment, $8.1 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for as held for sale and $9.1 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for at fair value.  

 (2) In addition to loans, at December 31, 2013, $1.3 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for as held for investment and $0.8 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for at fair value.  

 (3) In addition to loans, at December 31, 2013, $4.5 billion of unfunded lending commitments were accounted for as held for investment.  

 (4) Amounts exclude customer margin loans outstanding of $29.2 billion and employee loans outstanding of $5.5 billion at December 31, 2013. See Notes 6 and 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.  

At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the allowance for loan losses related to funded loans that were accounted for as held for investment, was $149 million and $156 million, respectively, and the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded lending commitments that were accounted for as held for investment, was $149 million and $127 million, respectively. The aggregate allowance for loan losses for funded and unfunded loans increased slightly over the year due to the growth of the portfolio and reflected the high quality of the Company’s lending portfolios resulting from strong credit risk management. See Note 8 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.  

Institutional Securities Corporate Lending Activities. In connection with certain of its Institutional Securities business segment activities, the Company provides loans or lending commitments to select corporate clients. These loans and lending commitments may have varying terms; may be senior or subordinated; may be secured or unsecured; are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower; and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the Company.  

The Company’s corporate lending credit exposure is primarily from loans and lending commitments used for general corporate purposes, working capital and liquidity purposes and typically consists of revolving lines of credit, letter of credit facilities and term loans. In addition, the Company provides “event-driven” loans and lending commitments associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization activities. The Company’s “event-driven” loans and lending commitments typically consist of revolving lines of credit, term loans and bridge loans.  

    139      

Table of Contents 

Corporate lending commitments may not be indicative of the Company’s actual funding requirements, as the commitment may expire unused or the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment or the Company’s portion of the commitment may be reduced through the syndication or sales process. Such syndications or sales may involve third-party institutional investors where the Company may have a custodial relationship, such as prime brokerage clients.  

The Company may hedge and/or sell its exposures in connection with loans and lending commitments. Additionally, the Company may mitigate credit risk by requiring borrowers to pledge collateral and include financial covenants in lending commitments to such borrowers. In the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition these loans are carried at either fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings; held for investment, which are recorded at amortized cost; or held for sale, which are recorded at lower of cost or fair value.  

The Company’s credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and lending commitments is measured in accordance with the Company’s internal risk management standards. Lending commitments represent legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients for all lending transactions. Since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused or may not be utilized to full capacity, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements.  

The following tables present the Company’s Institutional Securities Corporate Lending Commitments and Funded Loans at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013.   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Company’s Credit Risk Management Department.  

 (2) For syndications led by the Company, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts agreed to by counterparties that will participate in the syndication. For syndications that the Company participates in and does not lead, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that the Company expects it will be allocated from the lead syndicate bank.  

 (3) Amounts include the fair value adjustment of ($0.3) billion related to the Company’s unfunded lending commitments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior-year amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

 (2) Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Company’s Credit Risk Management Department.  

 (3)  For syndications led by the Company, lending commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed are net of the amounts agreed to by counterparties that will participate in the syndication. For syndications that the Company participates in and does not lead, lending  

      140    

Table of Contents 

     commitments accepted by the borrower but not yet closed include only the amount that the Company expects it will be allocated from the lead syndicate bank.  

 (4) Amounts include the fair value adjustment of ($0.1) billion related to the Company’s unfunded lending commitments.  

At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, the aggregate amount of investment grade funded loans was $6.3 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of non-investment grade funded loans was $9.9 billion and $10.2 billion, respectively. In connection with these corporate lending activities (which include both corporate funded and unfunded lending commitments), the Company had hedges (which included “single name,” “sector” and “index” hedges) with a notional amount of $12.9 billion related to the total corporate lending exposure of $98.0 billion at December 31, 2014 and with a notional amount of $9.0 billion related to the total corporate lending exposure of $95.4 billion at December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, all Corporate lending activities held for investment were current.  

“Event-Driven” Loans and Lending Commitments at December 31, 2014.  

Included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above at December 31, 2014 were “event-driven” exposures of $15.2 billion composed of funded loans of $5.7 billion and lending commitments of $9.5 billion. Included in the “event-driven” exposure at December 31, 2014 were $11.6 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers. The maturity profile of these “event-driven” loans and lending commitments at December 31, 2014 were as follows: 18% will mature in less than 1 year, 14% will mature within 1 to 3 years, 37% will mature within 3 to 5 years and 31% will mature in over 5 years.  

Industry Exposure—Corporate Lending. The Company also monitors its credit exposure to individual industries for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed below.  

The following table presents the Company’s Institutional Securities credit exposure from its primary Corporate Lending Commitments and Funded Loans by industry:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior-year amounts have been recast to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

 (2) Includes mutual funds, pension funds, private equity and real estate funds, exchanges and clearinghouses and diversified financial services.  

Institutional Securities Other Lending Activities. In addition to the primary corporate lending activities described above, the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment engages in other lending activities. These activities include commercial and residential mortgage lending, asset-backed lending, corporate loans purchased in the secondary market, financing extended to institutional equities clients and loans to municipalities. In 2014, loans and lending commitments associated with these activities increased by approximately 89%, mainly due to growth in corporate and wholesale real estate loans. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, approximately 99.9% and 99.6%, respectively, of Institutional Securities other lending activities held for investment were current and  

    141      

Table of Contents 

 approximately 0.1% and 0.4%, respectively, were on non-accrual status because the loans were past due for a period of 90 days or more or payment of principal or interest was in doubt.  

The following tables present the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment’s other lending activities by remaining contract maturity:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In addition, Institutional Securities other lending activities include margin lending, which allows the client to borrow against the value of qualifying securities. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, Institutional Securities margin lending of $15.3 billion and $15.2 billion, respectively, were classified within Customer and other receivables in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition.  

Wealth Management Lending Activities. The principal Wealth Management lending activities include securities-based lending and residential real estate loans. The following tables present the Company’s Wealth Management business segment lending activities by remaining contract maturity: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Securities-based lending provided to the Company’s retail clients is primarily conducted through the Company’s PLA platform which had an outstanding funded loan balance of $19.1 billion within the $22.0 billion at December 31, 2014 and $13.2 billion within the $14.9 billion at December 31, 2013. These loans allow the client  

      142    

Table of Contents 

 to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any purpose other than purchasing securities. The Company establishes approved credit lines against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce debt positions, when necessary. These credit lines are primarily uncommitted loan facilities, as the Company reserves the right to not make any advances, or may terminate these credit lines at any time. Factors considered in the review of these loans include but are not limited to the loan amount, the degree of leverage and the quality of diversification, price volatility and liquidity of the collateral.  

Residential real estate loans consist of first and second lien mortgages, including HELOC loans. For these loans, a loan evaluation process is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral valuation. The Company’s underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models (e.g., Fair Isaac Corporation (“FICO”) scores), debt ratios and assets of the borrower. Loan-to-value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. The vast majority of mortgage and HELOC loans are held for investment in the Company’s Wealth Management business segment’s loan portfolio.  

In 2014, loans and lending commitments associated with the Company’s Wealth Management business segment lending activities increased by approximately 45%, mainly due to growth in PLA and residential real estate loans. At December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, approximately 99.9% of the Company’s Wealth Management business segment lending activities held for investment were current; while approximately 0.1% were on non-accrual status because the loans were past due for a period of 90 days or more or payment of principal or interest was in doubt.  

The Company’s Wealth Management business segment also provides margin lending to retail clients and had an outstanding balance of $13.7 billion and $14.0 billion at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively, which were classified within Customer and other receivables in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition.  

In addition, the Company’s Wealth Management business segment has employee loans that are granted primarily in conjunction with a program established by the Company to recruit and retain certain employees. These loans, recorded in Customer and other receivables in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition, are full recourse, require periodic payments and have repayment terms ranging from two to 12 years. The Company establishes an allowance for loan amounts it does not consider recoverable from terminated employees, which is recorded in Compensation and benefits expense.  

Credit Exposure—Derivatives.  

The Company incurs credit risk as a dealer in over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives. Credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. In connection with its OTC derivative activities, the Company generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide the Company with the ability to demand collateral as well as to liquidate collateral and offset receivables and payables covered under the same master netting agreement in the event of counterparty default. The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative products (e.g., futures, forwards, swaps and options). For credit exposure information on the Company’s OTC derivative products, see Note 12 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Credit Derivatives. A credit derivative is a contract between a seller (guarantor) and buyer (beneficiary) of protection against the risk of a credit event occurring on one or more debt obligations issued by a specified  

    143      

Table of Contents 

 reference entity. The beneficiary typically pays a periodic premium over the life of the contract and is protected for the period. If a credit event occurs, the guarantor is required to make payment to the beneficiary based on the terms of the credit derivative contract. Credit events, as defined in the contract, may be one or more of the following defined events: bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay, obligation acceleration, repudiation, payment moratorium and restructurings.  

The Company trades in a variety of credit derivatives and may either purchase or write protection on a single name or portfolio of referenced entities. In transactions referencing a portfolio of entities or securities, protection may be limited to a tranche of exposure or a single name within the portfolio. The Company is an active market maker in the credit derivatives markets. As a market maker, the Company works to earn a bid-offer spread on client flow business and manages any residual credit or correlation risk on a portfolio basis. Further, the Company uses credit derivatives to manage its exposure to residential and commercial mortgage loans and corporate lending exposures during the periods presented. The effectiveness of the Company’s credit default swap (“CDS”) protection as a hedge of the Company’s exposures may vary depending upon a number of factors, including the contractual terms of the CDS.  

The Company actively monitors its counterparty credit risk related to credit derivatives. A majority of the Company’s counterparties are composed of banks, broker-dealers, insurance and other financial institutions. Contracts with these counterparties may include provisions related to counterparty rating downgrades, which may result in additional collateral being required by the Company. As with all derivative contracts, the Company considers counterparty credit risk in the valuation of its positions and recognizes credit valuation adjustments as appropriate within Trading revenues in the Company’s consolidated statements of income.  

The following tables summarize the key characteristics of the Company’s credit derivative portfolio by counterparty type at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013. The fair values shown are before the application of contractual netting or collateral. For additional credit exposure information on the Company’s credit derivative portfolio, see Note 12 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company’s CDS are classified in either Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Approximately 4% of receivable fair values and 7% of payable fair values represent Level 3 amounts (see Note 4 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company’s CDS are classified in either Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Approximately 7% of receivable fair values and 5% of payable fair values represent Level 3 amounts (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8).  

      144    

Table of Contents 

Industry Exposure—OTC Derivative Products. The Company also monitors its credit exposure to individual industries for current exposure arising from the Company’s OTC derivative contracts.  

The following table shows the Company’s OTC derivative products at fair value by industry:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Amounts include mutual funds, pension funds, private equity and real estate funds, exchanges and clearinghouses and diversified financial services.  

 (2) For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 12 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

Other.  

In addition to the activities noted above, there are other credit risks managed by the Company’s Credit Risk Management Department and various business areas within the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment. The Company participates in securitization activities whereby it extends short-term or long-term funding to clients through loans and lending commitments that are secured by the assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate loans, loans secured by loan pools, commercial company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. Credit risk with respect to these loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement or a decline in the underlying collateral value. See Note 7 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information about the Company’s securitization activities. In addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. See Note 6 to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information about the Company’s collateralized transactions.  

Country Risk Exposure.   

Country risk exposure is the risk that uncertainties arising from the economic, social, security and political conditions within a foreign country (any country other than the U.S.) will adversely affect the ability of the sovereign government and/or obligors within the country to honor their obligations to the Company. Country risk exposure is measured in accordance with the Company’s internal risk management standards and includes obligations from sovereign governments, corporations, clearinghouses and financial institutions. The Company actively manages country risk exposure through a comprehensive risk management framework that combines credit and market fundamentals and allows the Company to effectively identify, monitor and limit country risk. Country risk exposure before and after hedges is monitored and managed.  

    145      

Table of Contents 

The Company’s obligor credit evaluation process may also identify indirect exposures whereby an obligor has vulnerability or exposure to another country or jurisdiction. Examples of indirect exposures include mutual funds that invest in a single country, offshore companies whose assets reside in another country to that of the offshore jurisdiction and finance company subsidiaries of corporations. Indirect exposures identified through the credit evaluation process may result in a reclassification of country risk.  

The Company conducts periodic stress testing that seeks to measure the impact on the Company’s credit and market exposures of shocks stemming from negative economic or political scenarios. When deemed appropriate by the Company’s risk managers, the stress test scenarios include possible contagion effects. Second order risks such as the impact for core European banks of their peripheral exposures may also be considered. This analysis, and results of the stress tests, may result in the amendment of limits or exposure mitigation.  

In addition to the Company’s country risk exposure, the Company discloses its cross-border risk exposure in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)” in Item 8. It is based on the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council’s regulatory guidelines for reporting cross-border information and represents the amounts that the Company may not be able to obtain from a foreign country due to country-specific events, including unfavorable economic and political conditions, economic and social instability, and changes in government policies.  

There can be substantial differences between the Company’s country risk exposure and cross-border risk exposure. For instance, unlike the cross-border risk exposure, the Company’s country risk exposure includes the effect of certain risk mitigants. In addition, the basis for determining the domicile of the country risk exposure is different from the basis for determining the cross-border risk exposure. Cross-border risk exposure is reported based on the country of jurisdiction for the obligor or guarantor. Besides country of jurisdiction, the Company considers factors such as physical location of operations or assets, location and source of cash flows/revenues and location of collateral (if applicable) in order to determine the basis for country risk exposure. Furthermore, cross-border risk exposure incorporates CDS only where protection is purchased while country risk exposure incorporates CDS where protection is both purchased and sold.  

The Company’s sovereign exposures consist of financial instruments entered into with sovereign and local governments. Its non-sovereign exposures consist of exposures to primarily corporations and financial institutions. The following table shows the Company’s ten largest non-U.S. country risk net exposures at December 31, 2014. Index credit derivatives are included in the Company’s country risk exposure tables. Each reference entity within an index is allocated to that reference entity’s country of risk. Index exposures are allocated to the underlying reference entities in proportion to the notional weighting of each reference entity in the index, adjusted for any fair value receivable/payable for that reference entity. Where credit risk crosses multiple jurisdictions, for example, a CDS purchased from an issuer in a specific country that references bonds issued by an entity in a different country, the fair value of the CDS is reflected in the Net Counterparty Exposure  

      146    

Table of Contents 

 column based on the country of the CDS issuer. Further, the notional amount of the CDS adjusted for the fair value of the receivable/payable is reflected in the Net Inventory column based on the country of the underlying reference entity.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    147      

Table of Contents 

 (1) Net inventory represents exposure to both long and short single-name and index positions (i.e., bonds and equities at fair value and CDS based on notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable). As a market maker, the Company transacts in these CDS positions to facilitate client trading. At December 31, 2014, gross purchased protection, gross written protection and net exposures related to single-name and index credit derivatives for those countries were $(261.7) billion, $259.6 billion and $(0.2) billion, respectively. For a further description of the triggers for purchased credit protection and whether those triggers may limit the effectiveness of the Company’s hedges, see “Credit Exposure—Derivatives” herein.  

 (2) Net counterparty exposure (i.e., repurchase transactions, securities lending and OTC derivatives) takes into consideration legally enforceable master netting agreements and collateral.  

 (3) At December 31, 2014, the benefit of collateral received against counterparty credit exposure was $11.9 billion in the U.K., with 98% of collateral consisting of cash, U.S. and U.K. government obligations, and $14.1 billion in Germany with 98% of collateral consisting of cash and government obligations of Germany, France, Belgium and Netherlands. The benefit of collateral received against counterparty credit exposure in the other countries totaled approximately $15.4 billion, with collateral primarily consisting of cash, U.S. and Japanese government obligations. These amounts do not include collateral received on secured financing transactions.  

 (4) Amounts represent CDS hedges (purchased and sold) on net counterparty exposure and funded lending executed by trading desks responsible for hedging counterparty and lending credit risk exposures for the Company. Based on the CDS notional amount assuming zero recovery adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable.  

 (5) In addition, at December 31, 2014, the Company had exposure to these countries for overnight deposits with banks of approximately $5.1 billion.  

Operational Risk.  

Operational risk refers to the risk of loss, or of damage to the Company’s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed processes, people, and systems or from external events (e.g., fraud, theft, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). Operational risk includes legal and compliance risk. Operational risk relates to the following risk event categories as defined by Basel II: internal fraud; external fraud, employment practices and workplace safety; clients, products and business practices; business disruption and system failure; damage to physical assets; and execution, delivery and process management. The Company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and support and control groups (e.g., information technology and trade processing). Legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under “Legal and Compliance Risk.”  

The Company has established an operational risk framework to identify, measure, monitor and control risk across the Company. Effective operational risk management is essential to reducing the impact of operational risk incidents and mitigating legal and reputational risks. The framework is continually evolving to account for changes in the Company and respond to the changing regulatory and business environment. The Company has implemented operational risk data and assessment systems to monitor and analyze internal and external operational risk events, business environment and internal control factors and to perform scenario analysis. The collected data elements are incorporated in the operational risk capital model. The model encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements. Internal loss data and scenario analysis results are direct inputs to the capital model, while external operational incidents, business environment internal control factors and metrics are evaluated as part of the scenario analysis process.  

Primary responsibility for the management of operational risk is with the Company’s business segments, the control groups and the business managers therein. The business managers maintain processes and controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. Each of the Company’s business segments has a designated operational risk coordinator. The operational risk coordinator regularly reviews operational risk issues and reports to the Company’s senior management within each business. Each control group also has a designated operational risk coordinator and a forum for discussing operational risk matters with the Company’s senior management. Oversight of operational risk is provided by the Company’s Operational Risk Oversight Committee, regional risk committees and senior management. In the event of a merger; joint venture; divestiture; reorganization; or creation of a new legal entity, a new product or a business activity, operational risks are considered, and any necessary changes in processes or controls are implemented.  

The Company’s Operational Risk Department is independent of the Company’s divisions and reports to the Company’s Chief Risk Officer. The Company’s Operational Risk Department provides oversight of operational  

      148    

Table of Contents 

 risk management and independently assesses, measures and monitors operational risk. The Company’s Operational Risk Department works with the divisions and control groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework for managing operational risk within each area and across the Company. The Company’s Operational Risk Department scope includes the information and technology risk oversight program (e.g., cybersecurity) and supplier management (vendor risk oversight and assessment) program. Furthermore, the Company’s Operational Risk Department supports the collection and reporting of operational risk incidents and the execution of operational risk assessments; provides the infrastructure needed for risk measurement and risk management; and ensures ongoing validation and verification of the Company’s advanced measurement approach for operational risk capital.  

Business Continuity Management is responsible for identifying key risks and threats to the Company’s resiliency and planning to ensure that a recovery strategy and required resources are in place for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption. Disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. The key components of the Company’s disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other elements addressing management, analysis, training and testing.  

The Company maintains an information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements. Information security policies are designed to protect the Company’s information assets against unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. These policies cover a broad range of areas, including: application entitlements, data protection, incident response, Internet and electronic communications, remote access and portable devices. The Company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computers and other assets from unauthorized access.  

In connection with its ongoing operations, the Company utilizes the services of external vendors, which it anticipates will continue and may increase in the future. These services include, for example, outsourced processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. The Company manages its exposures to these services through a variety of means such as the performance of due diligence, consideration of operational risk, implementation of service level and other contractual agreements, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors’ performance. The Company maintains a supplier risk management program with policies, procedures, organization, governance and supporting technology. The programs are designed to ensure adequate risk management controls over the services exist, including but not limited to information security, operational failure, financial stability, disaster recoverability, reputational risk, safeguards against corruption, and termination.  

Legal and Compliance Risk.  

Legal and compliance risk includes the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss including fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements, or loss to reputation that the Company may suffer as a result of failure to comply with laws, regulations, rules, related self-regulatory organization standards and codes of conduct applicable to its business activities. This risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty’s performance obligations will be unenforceable. The Company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see also “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A). The Company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to facilitate compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. The Company, principally through its Legal and Compliance Division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the Company’s policies relating to business conduct, ethics and practices are followed globally. In connection with its businesses, for example, the Company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, information barriers, potential conflicts of interest, structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, lending and credit granting, anti-money laundering, information security, privacy and recordkeeping. In addition, the  

    149      

Table of Contents 

 Company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty’s performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. The legal and regulatory focus on the financial services and banking industry presents a continuing business challenge for the Company.  

      150    

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.