Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   

INTRODUCTION  

GENERAL  

The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions Financial Corporation’s (“Regions” or the “Company”) financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on the years 2008, 2007 and 2006; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted.  

Regions’ profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non-interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest-bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions’ net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non-interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage, investment banking, capital markets, and trust activities, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, insurance activities, and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non-interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy and other operating expenses, including income taxes. In addition, in 2008 Regions non-interest expense was impacted by a non-cash goodwill impairment charge.  

Economic conditions, competition, and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect most financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions’ market areas. Other factors, including the Company’s balance sheet capacity, capital levels and its liquidity management efforts also influence Regions’ lending and deposit taking activities as well as its overall profitability.  

Regions’ business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations. Regions delivers this business with the personal attention and feel of a community bank and with the service and product offerings of a large regional bank.  

Acquisitions  

The acquisitions of banks and other financial services companies have historically contributed significantly to Regions’ growth. The acquisitions of other financial services companies have also allowed Regions to better diversify its revenue stream and to offer additional products and services to its customers. From time to time, Regions evaluates potential bank and non-bank acquisition candidates.  

On January 1, 2008, Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired certain assets of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc., a multi-line insurance agency headquartered in Jackson, Mississippi. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company assumed approximately $900 million of deposits from a failed Atlanta-area bank in a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”)-assisted transaction. In addition, in December 2008, Morgan Keegan & Company, Inc. (“Morgan Keegan”) a subsidiary of Regions Financial Corporation, acquired Revolution Partners, LLC, a Boston-based investment banking boutique specializing in mergers and acquisitions and private capital advisory services for the technology industry.  

27  

Table of Contents 

On February 6, 2009, Regions acquired from the FDIC approximately $285 million in total deposits from a failed bank headquartered in Henry County, Georgia. Under the terms of the agreement with the FDIC, Regions assumed operations of the bank’s four branches and provides banking services to its former customers.  

During 2007, Regions acquired two financial services entities. On January 2, 2007, Regions Insurance Group, Inc. acquired certain assets of Miles & Finch, Inc., a multi-line insurance agency headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana, with annual revenues of approximately $10 million. On June 15, 2007, Morgan Keegan acquired Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC (“Shattuck Hammond”), an investment banking and financial advisory firm headquartered in New York, New York.  

On November 4, 2006, Regions merged with AmSouth Bancorporation (“AmSouth”), headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. In the stock-for-stock merger, 0.7974 shares of Regions were exchanged, on a tax-free basis, for each share of AmSouth common stock. AmSouth had total assets of approximately $58 billion (including goodwill) and operated in 6 states at the time of the merger. This transaction was accounted for as a purchase of 100 percent of the voting interests of AmSouth by Regions and, accordingly, financial results for periods prior to November 4, 2006 have not been restated. The Company completed the operational integration of AmSouth into Regions during 2007. As part of the integration process, Regions converted its mortgage, brokerage, trust, and payroll and benefits platforms, as well as its entire network of branches to a common operating platform. Concurrent with the branch conversions, 160 branches in close proximity to one another were consolidated into the remaining branch system. Also related to the merger, during the first quarter of 2007, Regions divested 52 branches, which is discussed later in the “Dispositions” section of this report.  

Regions incurred approximately $822 million in one-time pre-tax merger-related costs to bring the two companies together. Regions recorded $185.4 million of such costs in goodwill during 2006. This amount was subsequently adjusted down by $2.9 million in 2007. The majority of merger costs flowed directly through the income statement. These included $200.2 million, $350.9 million, and $88.7 million in pre-tax merger expenses during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. No merger expenses related to the AmSouth transaction were recorded after the third quarter of 2008.  

Anticipated cost savings are an important driver of any merger transaction. Regions estimates that it achieved an ongoing annual cost savings run-rate in excess of $800 million as of year-end 2008, as a result of the merger. These savings were primarily recognized in areas such as personnel, occupancy and equipment, operations and technology, and corporate functions.  

Dispositions  

During the first quarter of 2007, through sales to three separate buyers, Regions completed the divestiture of 52 former AmSouth branches having approximately $2.7 billion in deposits and $1.7 billion in loans. These divestitures were required in markets where the merger may have affected competition.  

On March 30, 2007, Regions sold its wholly-owned non-conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst Corporation (“EquiFirst”) for an initial sales price of approximately $76 million. The business related to EquiFirst has been accounted for as discontinued operations and the results are presented separately on the consolidated statements of operations for all periods presented. Resolution of the sales price was completed in October 2008, and resulted in an after-tax loss of approximately $10 million. See Note 4 “Discontinued Operations” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

Business Segments  

Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of investment banking, asset management, trust, mutual funds, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the following business segments:  

28  

Table of Contents 

General Banking/Treasury  

Regions’ primary business is providing traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services to its customers. Regions’ banking subsidiary, Regions Bank, operates as an Alabama state-chartered bank with branch offices in Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The Treasury function includes the Company’s securities portfolio and other wholesale funding activities. In 2008, Regions’ general banking and treasury operations reported a loss of approximately $5.6 billion, primarily the result of a $6.0 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge.  

Investment Banking, Brokerage and Trust  

Regions provides investment banking, brokerage and trust services in approximately 332 offices of Morgan Keegan, a subsidiary of Regions and one of the largest investment firms based in the South. Morgan Keegan contributed $128.3 million of income in 2008. Its lines of business include private client, retail brokerage services, fixed-income capital markets, equity capital markets, trust, and asset management.  

Insurance  

Regions provides insurance-related services through Regions Insurance Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Regions and a full-line insurance brokerage firm. Regions Insurance Group is one of the 25 largest insurance brokers in the country. The insurance segment includes all business associated with insurance coverage for various lines of personal and commercial insurance, such as property, casualty, life, health and accident insurance. The insurance segment also offers credit-related insurance products, such as term life, credit life, environmental, crop and mortgage insurance, as well as debt cancellation products to customers of Regions. Insurance activities contributed approximately $20.1 million of income in 2008.  

See Note 24 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions’ business segments.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Table 1—Financial Highlights  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Note: Periods prior to November 4, 2006 do not include the effect of Regions’ acquisition of AmSouth. Periods prior to July 1, 2004 do not include the effect of Regions’ acquisition of Union Planters Corporation.  

30  

Table of Contents 

2008 OVERVIEW  

The year ended December 31, 2008 was an extremely tumultuous year for the U.S. economy and, more specifically, for the financial services industry. Deteriorating home values, among other factors, provided a catalyst for declining valuations across nearly all asset classes, including loans and securities. The property value declines, which began in late 2007, continued to build throughout 2008. While Regions did not have material exposure to many of the issues that plagued the industry (e.g., sub-prime loans, structured investment vehicles, collateralized debt obligations), the Company’s exposure to the residential housing sector, primarily within its commercial real estate and construction loan portfolios, pressured its loan portfolio, resulting in increased credit costs and other real estate expenses. In another significant event, the results of goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of 2008 indicated that the estimated fair value of Regions’ General Banking/Treasury reporting unit goodwill was less than its book value, requiring a $6.0 billion non-cash charge to earnings.  

As a result of these factors, Regions reported a net loss from continuing operations of $5.6 billion or $8.07 per diluted common share in 2008. Not included in this amount was an $11.5 million after-tax loss related to EquiFirst, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Included in the 2008 net loss was a $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge ($8.63 per diluted share) and $124.1 million in after-tax merger-related expenses ($0.18 per diluted share). Net income from continuing operations was $1.95 per diluted share in 2007, including a reduction of $0.31 per diluted share related to $217.5 million in after-tax merger-related expenses. Excluding merger-related charges and goodwill impairment charges, annual earnings per common share from continuing operations was $0.74 in 2008 as compared to $2.26 in 2007. Significant drivers of 2008 results include a much higher provision for loan losses and lower net interest income. Offsetting to some extent was Regions’ solid fee income, including revenues from Morgan Keegan. See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for additional details.  

As a result of the large earnings impact from the goodwill impairment charge, return measures, such as return on average tangible common stockholders’ equity, were not meaningful for 2008 on a generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) basis. Excluding the goodwill impairment charge, merger-related charges and discontinued operations, return on average tangible common stockholders’ equity was 6.79 percent for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to 20.43 percent for the year ended December 31, 2007. See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for additional details and Table 1 “Financial Highlights” for additional ratios.  

Net interest income was $3.8 billion in 2008 compared to $4.4 billion in 2007. The decrease resulted in a lower net interest margin, which declined to 3.23 percent during 2008 compared to 3.79 percent in 2007. The net interest margin was negatively impacted primarily by factors directly and indirectly associated with the erosion of economic and industry conditions in late 2007 and throughout 2008. These factors include an unfavorable variation in the general level and shape of the yield curve (exemplified by recent Federal Reserve interest rate reductions), intensification of price-based competition for retail deposits, disintermediation of deposits into other non-bank asset classes, rate increases for new debt issuances, and rising non-performing asset levels. Moreover, the costs of maintenance of the Company’s liquidity profile in the presently stressed environment (including maintaining prudent levels of excess liquidity) have increased, further pressuring the net interest margin.  

Net charge-offs totaled $1.5 billion, or 1.59 percent of average loans in 2008 compared to $270.5 million, or 0.29 percent of average loans in 2007. The increased loss rate resulted from deteriorating economic conditions during 2008, especially related to the housing sector. More specifically, approximately $639.0 million of 2008 net charges-offs were related to non-performing loan dispositions or transfers to held for sale as compared to none in 2007. Non-performing assets increased $853.9 million between December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008 to $1.7 billion, primarily due to continued weakness in the Company’s residential homebuilder portfolio, which began experiencing significant pressure toward the end of 2007. This pressure was due to a combination of declining residential real estate demand and resulting price and collateral value declines in certain of the Company’s markets, particularly areas of Florida and Atlanta, Georgia. Condominium loans, mainly in Florida,   

31  

Table of Contents 

 were also a driver of the increase in non-performing assets. Regions aggressively managed its exposure to its most stressed assets by selling or transferring to held for sale approximately $1.3 billion of non-performing loans during 2008. Non-performing assets held for sale totaled $423.3 million at December 31, 2008.  

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that, in management’s judgment, is adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. During 2008, the provision for loan losses from continuing operations increased to $2.1 billion compared to $555.0 million in 2007. The provision rose due to weakening conditions in the broad economy and, more specifically, in the residential housing market, which most significantly impacted management’s estimate of inherent losses in the residential homebuilder, condominium, home equity and residential mortgage portfolios. As a result of the increased provision for loan losses and despite significantly higher loan charge-offs, which increased $1.3 billion, Regions increased its allowance for credit losses to 1.95 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, at December 31, 2008, as compared to 1.45 percent at December 31, 2007.  

Non-interest income from continuing operations (excluding securities gains/losses) totaled $3.0 billion or 43 percent of total revenue (fully taxable-equivalent basis) in 2008 compared to $2.9 billion or 39 percent in 2007, and continued to reflect Regions’ diversified revenue stream. The increase in non-interest income is primarily due to strong brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income, especially during the first half of the year. As the year progressed, however, brokerage and equity capital markets revenue streams were affected by declining market activity and transaction flow, resulting from increasing overall market uncertainty. Despite the difficulties, 2008 was a solid year for Morgan Keegan, recording net income of $128.3 million as compared to $165.9 million in 2007. In addition, Regions recorded $62.8 million of other income due to proceeds from a sale of Class B common stock ownership interest in Visa. Offsetting these increases were decreases in service charges on deposit accounts and trust income in 2008.  

Non-interest expense from continuing operations totaled $10.8 billion in 2008 compared to $4.7 billion in 2007, impacted most significantly by the $6.0 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge. Also reflected in non-interest expenses were merger charges totaling $200.2 million and $350.9 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Merger costs consist mainly of personnel expenses, the cost of integrating AmSouth systems with those of Regions and the consolidation of branches. Excluding the goodwill impairment and merger-related expenses, non-interest expense increased $282.0 million or 6.5 percent in 2008 compared to 2007. The largest drivers were mortgage servicing rights impairment charges, increased professional fees due to litigation, occupancy expense reflecting continued investment in the branch franchise, and higher other real estate owned expenses driven by losses related to the continued decline in the housing market. In addition, 2008 non-interest expense was impacted by a $65.4 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt related to the redemption of subordinated notes and $49.4 million in write-downs on the investment in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds. See Table 8 “Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP Reconciliation)” for further details. Salaries and employee benefit cost were lower in 2008, mainly due to merger-related cost savings. Regions’ commission-driven revenues such as brokerage, investment banking and mortgage did, and will continue to, impact the salaries and employee benefits component of non-interest expense in direct correlation to revenue trends.  

In December 2008, Regions reached an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) that resolves a broad range of tax issues for Regions and all of its predecessor companies. The agreement covers and effectively closes Regions’ federal tax returns for tax years 1999 through 2006. As a result of the agreement, Regions recorded a $275 million earnings benefit from a reduction in the Company’s income tax expense during the fourth quarter of 2008. Refer to “Income Taxes” under “Operating Results” for additional details.  

Total loans increased by 2.1 percent in 2008, driven mainly by commercial and industrial and home equity lending. Partially offsetting this growth, demand for residential-related real estate lending softened during the year, primarily a result of the challenging economic backdrop and industry-wide tightening of credit. Deposits declined 4.1 percent in 2008 as compared to 2007, driven by a decline in foreign deposits utilized as an alternative to overnight funding. Customer deposits, defined as total deposits less deposits used for corporate   

32  

Table of Contents 

 treasury purposes (e.g. overnight funding sources), increased by 4.6 percent during 2008, driven largely by higher certificate of deposit balances.  

Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures excluding discontinued operations, merger and goodwill impairment charges (“non-GAAP”). Merger and goodwill impairment charges are included in financial results presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Regions believes the exclusion of merger and goodwill impairment charges in expressing earnings and certain other financial measures, including “earnings per common share from continuing operations, excluding merger and goodwill impairment charges” and “return on average tangible equity, excluding discontinued operations, merger and goodwill impairment charges” provides a meaningful base for period-to-period and company-to-company comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions’ business, because management does not consider merger and goodwill impairment charges to be relevant to ongoing operating results. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures for the following purposes:  

   •    Preparation of Regions’ operating budgets  

   •    Calculation of performance-based annual incentive bonuses for certain executives  

   •    Calculation of performance-based multi-year incentive bonuses for certain executives  

   •    Monthly financial performance reporting, including segment reporting  

   •    Monthly close-out “flash” reporting of consolidated results (management only)  

   •    Presentations to investors of Company performance  

Regions believes that presenting these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management and the Board of Directors.  

Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. To mitigate these limitations, Regions has policies in place to address expenses that qualify as merger and goodwill impairment charges and procedures in place to approve and segregate merger and goodwill impairment charges from other normal operating expenses to ensure that the Company’s operating results are properly reflected for period-to-period comparisons. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes merger and goodwill impairment charges does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders (i.e., merger and goodwill impairment charges are a reduction to earnings and stockholders’ equity).  

See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” below for computations of earnings and certain other GAAP financial measures and the corresponding reconciliation to non-GAAP financial measures, which exclude discontinued operations, merger and goodwill impairment charges for the periods presented.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Table 2—GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

34  

Table of Contents 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses (“allowance”) consists of the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Management evaluates the adequacy of the allowance based on the total of these two components. Determining the appropriate level of the allowance is one of the most critical and complex accounting estimates for any financial institution. Accounting guidance requires Regions to make a number of estimates related to the level of credit losses inherent in the portfolio at year-end. A full discussion of these estimates and other factors can be found in the “Allowance for Credit Losses” section within the discussion of credit risk, found in a later section of this report.  

The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, and external factors, such as interest rates and the general health of the economy. Management reviews scenarios having different assumptions for variables that could result in increases or decreases in probable inherent credit losses, which may materially impact Regions’ estimate of the allowance and results of operations.  

Management’s estimate of the allowance for commercial products, which includes commercial, construction, and commercial real estate mortgage loans, could be affected by risk rating upgrades or downgrades as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individual’s credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. A reasonably possible scenario would be an estimated 20 percent migration of lower risk-related pass credits to criticized status, which could increase estimated inherent losses by approximately $218.2 million. A 20 percent reduction in the level of criticized credits is also a reasonably possible scenario, which would result in an approximate $111.8 million decrease in estimated inherent losses.   

For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer-related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). The total of all residential loans, including residential real estate mortgages and home equity lending, represents approximately 32 percent of total loans. Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 20-basis-point increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these residential loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $61.7 million. The loss analysis related to other consumer-related loans includes reasonably possible scenarios with estimated loss rates increasing or decreasing by 50 basis points, which would increase or decrease the related estimated inherent losses by approximately $30.8 million, respectively.  

Additionally, the estimate of the allowance for credit losses for the entire portfolio may change due to modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding and general economic conditions, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment or employment rates, bankruptcy filings, used car prices, real estate demand and values, and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. While no one factor is dominant, each has the ability to result in actual loan losses that could differ materially from originally estimated amounts.  

The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Intangible Assets   

Regions’ intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (goodwill) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles). Regions’ goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more often if events or circumstances indicate impairment may exist. Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the business unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value.  

For purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, Regions uses both the income and market approaches to value its reporting units. The income approach consists of discounting long-term projected future cash flows, which are derived from internal forecasts and economic expectations for the respective reporting units. The projected future cash flows are discounted using cost of capital metrics for Regions’ peer group or a build-up approach (such as the capital asset pricing model). The market approach applies a market multiple, based on observed purchase transactions and/or price/earnings of Regions’ peer group for each reporting unit, to the last twelve months of net income or earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization or price/tangible book value. One of the critical assumptions in determining the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is the discount rate, which can change based on changes in the business climate. A decrease in the discount rate by one percentage point would result in an increase in fair value of approximately $1.0 billion for all reporting units and an increase of approximately $600 million for the General Banking/Treasury reporting unit. An increase in the discount rate by one percentage point would result in a decline in fair value of approximately $800 million for all reporting units and a decline of approximately $500 million for the General Banking/Treasury reporting unit. A variation in the discount rate may result in or from changes to other assumptions used in determining the estimated fair value; these changes could materially affect the sensitivities described above.  

If the estimated implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value. The changes or factors mentioned above, when or if they occur, could be material to Regions’ operating results for any particular reporting period. As previously discussed, Regions incurred a $6.0 billion impairment charge in 2008. See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.  

Other identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles, are reviewed at least annually for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset, such as loss of core deposits, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, when they occur, could be material to Regions’ operating results for any particular reporting period; the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

For purposes of evaluating mortgage servicing impairment, Regions must estimate the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices. Although sales of MSRs do occur, the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the value of the related MSRs. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its MSRs using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates and discount rates. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors could result in impairment of the servicing asset and a charge against earnings. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2008 fair value of MSRs by   

36  

Table of Contents 

 approximately 9.5 percent ($11.3 million) and 16.8 percent ($20.1 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2008 fair value of MSRs by approximately 10.1 percent ($12.0 million) and 23.0 percent ($27.5 million), respectively.  

The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to “Mortgage Servicing Rights” discussion in the “Balance Sheet” analysis.  

Income Taxes  

Accrued taxes represent the estimated amount payable to or receivable from taxing jurisdictions, either currently or in the future, and are reported, on a net basis, as a component of “other assets” in the consolidated balance sheets. The calculation of Regions’ income tax expense is complex and requires the use of many estimates and judgments in its determination.  

Management’s determination of the realization of the net deferred tax asset is based upon management’s judgment of various future events and uncertainties, including the timing and amount of future income earned by certain subsidiaries and the implementation of various tax plans to maximize realization of the deferred tax asset. Management believes that the subsidiaries will generate sufficient operating earnings to realize the deferred tax benefits.  

From time to time, for certain business plans enacted by Regions, management bases the estimates of related tax liabilities on its belief that future events will validate management’s current assumptions regarding the ultimate outcome of tax-related exposures. While Regions has obtained the opinion of advisors that the anticipated tax treatment of these transactions should prevail and has assessed the relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment, examination of Regions’ income tax returns, changes in tax law and regulatory guidance may impact the tax treatment of these transactions and resulting provisions for income taxes.  

OPERATING RESULTS  

GENERAL  

Regions reported a net loss available to common shareholders of $5.6 billion in 2008, compared to net income of $1.3 billion in 2007. Results in 2008 were significantly impacted by a $6.0 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008. After-tax merger-related expenses of approximately $124.1 million and $217.5 million were incurred during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Excluding the impact of merger-related charges and goodwill impairment, earnings from continuing operations were $513.6 million in 2008 compared to $1.6 billion in 2007. Refer to Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for additional details.  

NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN  

Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions’ principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions’ ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis decreased 13 percent to $3.9 billion in 2008 from $4.4 billion in 2007, resulting in a decline in the net interest margin, which declined from 3.79 percent in 2007 to 3.23 percent in 2008. The net interest margin was impacted substantially by developments in the aforementioned economic and operating environment in 2008. More specifically, changes in market interest rates and the yield curve were closely connected with economic developments during the year. Regions’ balance sheet was in an asset sensitive position during 2008, meaning that decreases in interest rates cause contraction in the Company’s net interest margin. As such, falling rates in 2008 led to an unfavorable change in the yield curve and, in turn, the net interest margin. However, changes in the level and shape of the yield curve were largely symptomatic of the pervasive disturbances in the financial markets and the broader economy, observed particularly during the second half of   

37  

Table of Contents 

 2008. Amidst the many complex implications of this recent financial turmoil, these forces intensified price-based competition in the retail deposit space (increasing the interest cost of maintaining and acquiring deposits), raised wholesale funding costs (increasing the costs of liquidity management), prompted a disintermediation out of conventional bank deposits into other asset classes, and increased the level of non-performing assets.  

During 2008, the Federal Reserve lowered the Federal funds rate by approximately 400 basis points in response to mounting concerns of a recession. As indicated above, Regions was asset sensitive at year-end 2008 and anticipates this positioning to continue to pressure net interest income during 2009.  

Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis Including Discontinued Operations” presents a detail of net interest income, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, the net interest margin, and the net interest spread. 

38  

Table of Contents 

Table 3—Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis Including Discontinued Operations   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Notes:  

 (1) Loans, net of unearned income include non-accrual loans for all periods presented.  

 (2) Interest income includes loan fees of $33,800,000, $65,673,000 and $78,360,000 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

 (3) The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the stautory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Table 4—Volume and Yield/Rate Variances 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Notes:  

 1. The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.  

 2. The computation of taxable net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Comparing 2008 to 2007, interest-earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 145 basis points on average. While interest-bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 115 basis points, this improvement in funding cost was not enough to offset the drop in interest-earning asset yields. As a result, the net average interest rate spread declined 30 basis points to 2.83 percent in 2008 as compared to 3.13 percent in 2007. Changes in market interest rates, an increase in competition for deposits, and Regions’ asset sensitive position were the most significant drivers of changes in Regions’ rates and yields.  

In terms of changes in the broad interest rate environment, the Federal Funds rate, which is an influential driver of loan and deposit pricing on the shorter end of the yield curve, declined approximately 400 basis points during 2008, ending the year at approximately 0.25 percent. Longer-term rates experienced similar movement, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note declining 166 basis points over the same period and ending the year at 2.25 percent. Both interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities were impacted by these changes in market rates. More specifically, these rate declines immediately impact loan yields in a downward fashion, since approximately 55 percent of the Company’s interest-earning assets are tied to the prime rate or London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”).  

The mix of interest-earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions’ primary types of interest-earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest-earning assets have historically generated larger spreads. For example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreement to resell. However, in 2008, the spread on loans decreased due to lower interest rates and higher levels of assets on non-accrual status. Average interest-earning assets at December 31, 2008 totaled $120.1 billion, an increase of $3.2 billion as compared to the prior year. On an average basis, interest-earning assets were 2.7 percent higher in 2008. The proportion of average interest-earning assets to average total assets measures the effectiveness of management’s efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest-earning vehicles and represented 83 percent and 84 percent for 2008 and 2007, respectively. Average loans as a percentage of average interest-earning assets were 81 percent in 2008 and 2007. The categories which comprise interest-earning assets are shown in Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis Including Discontinued Operations”.  

Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest-earning assets funded by interest-bearing liabilities. Funding for Regions’ interest-earning assets comes from interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing sources. The percentage of average interest-earning assets funded by average interest-bearing liabilities was 85 percent in 2008 and 82 percent in 2007.  

Table 4 “Volume and Yield/Rate Variances” provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income.  

Provision for Loan Losses   

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in management’s judgment is adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2008, the provision for loan losses from continuing operations was $2.1 billion and net charge-offs were $1.5 billion. This compares to a provision for loan losses from continuing operations of $555.0 million and net charge-offs of $270.5 million in 2007. Net charge-offs as a percent of average loans were 1.59 percent in 2008 compared to 0.29 percent in 2007. The significant increase in the provision and net charge-offs in 2008 is related to losses on non-performing loans sold or moved to held for sale. In 2008, these losses accounted for $639.0 million of the increase in the net charge-offs. The remaining increase in the loan loss provision was primarily due to an increase in management’s estimate of losses inherent in its residential homebuilder, condominium, home equity and residential mortgage portfolios, all of which are closely tied to the housing market slowdown. Losses were also impacted by the disposition of problem loans, as well as generally weaker economic conditions in the broader economy. During the second half of the year, Regions’ provision was $1.6 billion compared to net charge-offs of $1.2 billion, as the loan portfolio experienced increasing incremental stress.  

41  

Table of Contents 

For further discussion of the total allowance for credit losses, see the “Risk Management” section found later in this report and Note 7 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.  

NON-INTEREST INCOME  

The following section contains a discussion of non-interest income from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations.  

Non-interest income represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest-earning assets. Table 5 “Non-Interest Income” provides a detail of the components of non-interest income. Non-interest income totaled $3.1 billion in 2008 compared to $2.9 billion in 2007. The increase in non-interest income is primarily due to stronger brokerage results, mainly from fixed-income and equity markets at Morgan Keegan, as well as an increase in income derived from insurance commissions and fees and bank-owned life insurance. In addition, non-interest income was aided by a $101 million increase in securities gains. Offsetting these increases, service charge income declined as a result of lower insufficient funds fees. In addition, trust income decreased due to the disarray in the markets during the latter half of the year, which affected valuations of assets under management. Non-interest income (excluding securities transactions) as a percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable-equivalent basis) equaled 43 percent in 2008 compared to 39 percent in 2007. The increase is due mainly to lower total revenues in 2008 resulting from a decline in net interest income.  

Table 5—Non-Interest Income  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Service Charges on Deposit Accounts   

Income from service charges on deposit accounts decreased 1 percent to $1.1 billion in 2008 from $1.2 billion in 2007. This decline was the result of a decrease in consumer insufficient funds and overdraft fees, due to policy changes which were enacted to retain customers. Also, the Company’s new LifeGreen® checking accounts, which generated new account openings, had a lower associated fee structure.  

Brokerage, Investment Banking and Capital Markets and Trust Department Income  

Regions’ primary source of brokerage, investment banking, capital markets and trust revenue is its subsidiary, Morgan Keegan. Morgan Keegan’s revenues are predominantly recorded in the brokerage, investment banking, capital markets and trust income lines of the consolidated statements of operations, while a smaller portion is reported in other non-interest income.  

Morgan Keegan contributed $1.3 billion in total revenues in 2008 and 2007. Total brokerage, investment banking, and capital markets revenues increased 15 percent to $1.0 billion in 2008 from $894.6 million in 2007, reflecting stronger capital markets income. Despite the overall year-over-year increase in revenues, results for 2008 reflect the impact of the effective closure of credit markets and general upheaval in domestic and foreign   

42  

Table of Contents 

 markets. In addition, private client revenues were influenced by a reluctance of retail investors to make investment decisions in the market, due to increasing unemployment, declining property values, and declining personal wealth. As a result, brokerage, investment banking, and capital markets income began to decline during the latter part of 2008. Higher revenues from Morgan Keegan’s fixed income business offset this decrease to some extent, however, as institutional investors seeking safety invested heavily in municipal, mortgage-backed, and treasury securities. As of December 31, 2008, Morgan Keegan employed approximately 1,285 financial advisors. Customer and trust assets under management were approximately $63 billion and $62 billion, respectively, at year-end 2008 compared to approximately $80 billion and $81 billion, respectively, at year-end 2007. The reduction in assets under management is primarily driven by lower asset valuations from declining markets during the year.  

Revenues from the private client division, which were affected by market disarray, declined 14 percent to $339.4 million, or 26 percent of Morgan Keegan’s total revenue in 2008 compared to $393.5 million or 30 percent in 2007. Fixed-income capital markets revenues were up in 2008, totaling $369.9 million, as compared to $244.4 million in 2007, the result of higher trading volumes due to investors change in preference to safe-haven investments, including treasuries and highly rated municipal securities. Equity markets revenue was solid early in 2008, but increasingly gave way to financial market turmoil as the capital markets became more dislocated. Equity capital markets revenues totaled $127.9 million in 2008, compared to $103.3 million in 2007. Trust revenues increased 2 percent to $230.6 million in 2008, driven higher by revenues generated from the negotiation of natural lease drilling rights on customer properties. The asset management division produced $177.4 million of revenue in 2008 compared to $188.9 million in 2007 and was pressured by the decreasing value of managed assets during the year.  

Morgan Keegan’s pre-tax income was negatively affected during 2008 by $49.4 million in losses on investments in two open-end mutual funds managed by Morgan Keegan. These losses totaled $42.8 million in 2007. The Company, through Morgan Keegan, purchased fund shares in order to provide liquidity to the funds. The carrying value of these investments, which is equal to their estimated market value, was approximately $8.4 million as of December 31, 2008. Professional fees, primarily legal costs, also increased at Morgan Keegan from $21.1 million in 2007 to $85.5 million in 2008.  

Table 6 “Morgan Keegan” details the components of Morgan Keegan’s contribution to the Company’s revenue and earnings for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Table 7 “Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division” illustrates Morgan Keegan’s revenues by division for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Table 6—Morgan Keegan  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 7—Morgan Keegan Revenue by Division  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mortgage Income  

Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long-term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Although mortgage income was affected by the increasingly challenging mortgage industry environment (see “Economic Environment in Regions’ Banking Markets” later in this report) which deteriorated throughout the year, mortgage income increased 1 percent, from $135.7 million in 2007 to $137.7 million in 2008 due in part to the recognition of $10.0 million in loan servicing value during the first quarter of 2008 related to the adoption of FAS 159. See Note 23 “Fair Value of Financial Instruments” to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Falling mortgage interest rates in December, however, did produce a significant increase in refinancing activity during late 2008 and into 2009.  

44  

Table of Contents 

During 2008, the Company sold mortgage servicing rights on approximately $3.4 billion of GNMA loans and recognized a loss of $14.9 million, including transaction costs. At December 31, 2008, Regions’ servicing portfolio totaled $36.6 billion and included 306,153 loans. Of this portfolio, $21.2 billion were serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2007, the servicing portfolio totaled $43.1 billion, $26.9 billion of which were serviced for third parties. Regions’ mortgage division, primarily through retail operations in its 16-state footprint, originated mortgage loans totaling $5.4 billion in 2008 compared to $6.9 billion in 2007. The decrease is primarily related to lower demand and general stresses in the housing sector.  

During the first quarter of 2007, Regions sold its non-conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst, for an original sales price of approximately $76 million and recorded an after-tax gain of approximately $1 million at the time of sale. The sales price was subject to adjustment and was finalized during 2008 resulting in approximately $10 million of additional after-tax expense to Regions. See Note 4 “Discontinued Operations” to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. During the third quarter of 2007, Regions also exited the wholesale warehouse lending business as a result of risk and return considerations. In addition, Regions sold approximately $1.9 billion of its $4.5 billion out-of-market mortgage servicing portfolio in 2007, realizing a loss on the sale of approximately $4.4 million.  

Net Securities Gains (Losses)  

Regions reported net gains of $92.5 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2008, as compared to net losses of $8.6 million in 2007. The 2008 net gains were primarily related to the sale of federal agency debentures and U.S. treasury securities in the first quarter of 2008.  

Insurance Commissions and Fees  

Insurance commissions and fees increased 11 percent to $110.1 million in 2008, compared to $99.4 million in 2007. This increase is primarily due to increased revenues from the mid-2007 acquisition of Miles & Finch and the acquisition of Barksdale Bonding and Insurance, Inc, which closed in early 2008. A general increase in commissions related to new business production and higher premiums were also a contributing factor in the year-over-year increase.  

Bank-Owned Life Insurance  

Bank-owned life insurance income increased 26 percent to $78.3 million in 2008, compared to $62.0 million in 2007. This increase is primarily due to additional purchases of bank-owned life insurance policies totaling $967 million in late 2007 and early 2008.  

Other Miscellaneous Income  

Other miscellaneous income decreased $12.9 million, or 5 percent, from $258.6 million in 2007 to $245.7 million in 2008. A significant driver of the decrease is due to a $26.2 million decrease in gains on the sale of loans in 2008 and a $21.3 million increase in losses related to write-downs of low income housing investments. In addition in 2007, Regions recognized a $9.1 million gain on the termination of Union Planters hybrid debt and a $13.3 million gain on disposal of residual interests in an acquired subsidiary. Also, in 2007, Regions recognized a $7.3 million gain related to a sale of certain mutual funds. Offsetting these events was a $62.8 million gain on the redemption of Visa shares in 2008.  

45  

Table of Contents 

NON-INTEREST EXPENSE   

The following section contains a discussion of non-interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non-interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Total non-interest expense for 2008 also includes a $6.0 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge. Non-interest expense, excluding the merger-related and goodwill impairment charges, increased $282.0 million, or 6.5 percent, to $4.6 billion in 2008. Included in non-interest expense are pre-tax merger-related expenses totaling $200.2 million in 2008 and $350.9 million in 2007.  

Table 8 “Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP reconciliation)” presents major non-interest expense components, both including and excluding merger-related expenses and goodwill impairment, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Management believes Table 8 is useful in evaluating trends in non-interest expense. Note that merger-related charges as shown in this table relate to Regions’ acquisition of AmSouth in November 2006. See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation,” and the text preceding it, for further discussion of non-GAAP financial measures.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Table 8—Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP reconciliation)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

47  

Table of Contents 

Salaries and Employee Benefits   

Total salaries and employee benefits decreased $115.9 million, or 5 percent, in 2008. Included in total salaries and employee benefits are merger charges totaling $133.4 million in 2008 and $158.6 million in 2007. The year-over-year decrease in salaries and employee benefits cost is the result of ongoing merger-related and other personnel-related efficiencies, evidenced by reductions in headcount. At December 31, 2008, Regions had 30,784 employees compared to 33,161 at December 31, 2007. Lower incentives driven by a deteriorating business environment in 2008 were also a factor.  

Regions provides employees who meet established employment requirements with a benefits package that includes 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance plans. New enrollment in the Regions pension plan ended effective December 31, 2000. New enrollment in the legacy AmSouth pension plan ended effective with the merger date, November 4, 2006. Former AmSouth employees enrolled as of November 4, 2006 continue to be active in the plan, but no additional participants will be added. Effective September 30, 2007, the two pension plans merged into one plan. Regions’ 401(k) plan includes a company match of eligible employee contributions. At December 31, 2008, this match totaled 100 percent of the eligible employee contribution (up to six percent of compensation). See Note 19 “Pension and Other Employee Benefit Plans” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

There are various incentive plans in place in many of Regions’ lines of business that are tied to the performance levels of employees. At Morgan Keegan, commissions and incentives are a key component of compensation, which is typical in the brokerage and investment banking industry. In general, incentives are used to reward employees for selling products and services, for productivity improvements and for achievement of corporate financial goals. These achievements are determined through a review of profitability versus risk management. Regions’ long-term incentive plan provides for the granting of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and performance shares. See Note 18 “Share-Based Payments” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Net Occupancy Expense  

Net occupancy expense includes rents, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Occupancy expense increased $28.4 million, or 7 percent, in 2008 due primarily to new branches opened and rising price levels. Included in net occupancy expense were merger charges of $3.3 million in 2008 and $33.8 million in 2007, reflecting costs to vacate leases due to the merger.  

Furniture and Equipment Expense  

Furniture and equipment expense increased $33.2 million to $334.5 million in 2008. This increase is due primarily to the increased depreciation and maintenance expense associated with capital additions, including new branches opened in 2007 and 2008. Included in furniture and equipment expense were merger charges of $5.0 million in 2008 and $4.9 million in 2007.  

Professional Fees  

Professional fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. Professional fees increased $62.2 million to $214.2 million in 2008. Included in professional fees during 2008 and 2007 were $7.4 million and $34.6 million, respectively, of merger-related charges. The 2008 increase is primarily due to higher legal expenses incurred at Morgan Keegan.  

Amortization of Core Deposit Intangibles  

The premium paid for core deposits in an acquisition is considered to be an intangible asset that is amortized on an accelerated basis over its useful life. As a result, amortization of core deposit intangibles decreased 14 percent to $134.1 million in 2008 compared to $155.3 million in 2007.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Other Real Estate Owned Expense  

Other real estate owned (“OREO”) expenses include the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO, as well as other costs to maintain the property. OREO expense increased $86.9 million to $102.8 million in 2008 compared to $15.9 million in 2007, driven by steep valuation declines and losses on the sale of foreclosed properties resulting from continued decline of the housing market. Another contributing factor is increased costs related to operating and maintaining the foreclosed properties during the holding period. Despite Regions’ aggressive and successful efforts to sell foreclosed properties, balances increased $122.5 million to $243.0 million in 2008. See Note 11 “Other Real Estate” to the consolidated financial statements.  

Marketing  

Marketing expense decreased $37.1 million during 2008, including a reduction of $30.2 million of merger-related charges, to $96.9 million from $134.1 million in 2007. In 2007, marketing expense was higher due to post-merger rebranding initiatives and marketing campaigns which ran to coincide with branch conversions, as well as customer communications associated with branch conversions and consolidations.  

Goodwill Impairment  

Regions incurred a $6.0 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge as a result of a goodwill evaluation performed in the fourth quarter of 2008. This evaluation indicated the estimated implied fair value of the General Banking/Treasury reporting unit’s goodwill was less than its book value, therefore requiring the impairment charge. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 10 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights Impairment  

Mortgage servicing rights impairment increased $79.0 million to $85.0 million in 2008. The increase was driven by the effects of changes in the interest rate environment in 2008.   

Other Miscellaneous Expenses  

Other miscellaneous expenses include communications, valuation impairment charges, business development services, and FDIC insurance. Other miscellaneous expenses increased slightly in 2008 compared to 2007. Included in other miscellaneous expenses are $49.4 million and $38.5 million write-downs on the investment in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Also in 2008, Regions incurred a $65.4 million loss on early extinguishment of debt related to the redemption of subordinated notes. Other miscellaneous expenses benefited from the recognition of a $28.4 million litigation expense reduction related to Visa’s IPO during the first quarter of 2008. Regions had recorded a $51.5 million expense for Visa litigation during the fourth quarter of 2007.  

INCOME TAXES  

Regions’ 2008 provision for income taxes from continuing operations decreased $993.8 million to a tax benefit to $348.1 million compared to expense of $645.7 million in 2007, primarily due to lower consolidated earnings combined with the $275 million benefit from settlement of uncertain tax positions resulting from the resolution with the IRS of the Company’s federal uncertain tax positions for tax years 1999-2006.  

Periodically, Regions invests in pass-through investment vehicles that generate tax credits, principally low-income housing credits and non-conventional fuel source credits, which directly reduce Regions’ federal income tax liability. Congress has enacted these tax credit programs to encourage capital inflows to these   

49  

Table of Contents 

 investment vehicles. The amount of tax benefit recognized from these tax credits was $56.3 million in 2008 compared to $81.3 million in 2007. The non-conventional fuel source credits, which totaled $39.6 million in 2007, expired at the end of 2007.  

Regions has segregated a portion of its investment securities and intellectual property into separate legal entities in order to, among other business purposes, maximize the return on such assets by the professional and focused management thereof. Regions has recognized state tax benefits related to these legal entities of $37.5 million in 2008 compared to $45.8 million in 2007.  

Management’s determination of the realization of deferred tax assets is based upon management’s judgment of various future events and uncertainties, including the timing, nature and amount of future income earned by certain subsidiaries, the level of taxable income in prior carryback years where carryback is permitted, and the implementation of various plans to maximize realization of deferred tax assets. Management believes that the subsidiaries will generate sufficient operating earnings to realize the deferred tax benefits. However, management does not believe that it is more-likely-than-not that all of its state net operating loss carryforwards will be realized. Accordingly, a valuation allowance has been established in the amount of $22.5 million against such benefits in 2008 compared to $19.2 million in 2007.  

Regions and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the United States (“U.S.”), as well as in various state jurisdictions. As the successor of acquired taxpayers, Regions is responsible for the resolution of audits from both federal and state taxing authorities. The Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax examinations for years before 2007, which would include audits of acquired entities. The Company is no longer subject to state and local income tax examinations for years before 2000. Certain states have proposed various adjustments to the Company’s previously filed tax returns. Management is currently evaluating those proposed adjustments and believes the Company to be adequately reserved for any potential exposures.  

During the third quarter of 2007 and first quarter of 2008, the Company made deposits with the IRS to stop the accrual of interest on all of its federal uncertain tax positions. In the first quarter of 2008, the Company settled a dispute with the IRS related to certain leveraged lease transactions. In addition, federal examinations for the 1998 and 1999 tax years were closed in the first quarter. As a result, the Company re-designated a portion of the deposits as an additional statutory payment of tax and interest to the IRS in the first quarter of 2008.  

In August of 2008, the IRS announced guidelines pursuant to which taxpayers could settle disputes relating to certain leveraged lease transactions. The deadline for notifying the IRS of a taxpayer’s intent to participate in the settlement initiative was early October 2008. The Company gave notice of the intent to participate in the settlement initiative in October 2008 and increased its reserves for interest on exposures related to leveraged lease transactions consistent with the settlement initiative guidelines as of September 30, 2008. Net interest income was reduced $43 million in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Position 13-2, “Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction” (“FAS 13-2”), to reflect the pre-tax income impact of the leasing settlement.  

In December of 2008, the Company reached an agreement with the IRS Appeals Division on the federal tax treatment of a broad range of uncertain tax positions identified by the IRS. Regions had previously established reserves for the uncertain tax positions. The agreement resulted in a $275 million earnings benefit from a reduction of the Company’s income tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2008. The agreement covers the Federal tax returns of Regions and its previous acquisitions, including Union Planters Corporation and AmSouth Bancorporation, for tax years 1999 through 2006 and includes matters related to Regions’ real estate investment structures and acceptance of the IRS global settlement initiative on leasing transactions.  

As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, the liability for gross unrecognized tax benefits was approximately $54.6 million and $746.3 million, respectively. Of the Company’s liability for gross unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2008, essentially all of the approximately $54.6 million would reduce the   

50  

Table of Contents 

 Company’s effective tax rate, if recognized. As of December 31, 2008, the Company recognized a liability of approximately $31 million for interest, on a pre-tax basis. During the year ended December 31, 2008, Regions recognized interest expense, on a pre-tax basis, on uncertain tax positions of approximately $39 million.  

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 21 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about the provision for income taxes.  

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS  

At December 31, 2008, Regions reported total assets of $146.2 billion compared to $141.0 billion at the end of 2007, an increase of approximately $5.2 billion or 3.7 percent. The balance sheet growth reflects an increase in loans outstanding, primarily commercial and industrial and home equity balances, as well as an increase in interest-bearing deposits in other banks, primarily the Federal Reserve Bank. Offsetting these growth drivers, Regions’ assets were reduced by the goodwill impairment charge taken during the fourth quarter of 2008.  

Loans  

Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 81 percent of average interest-earning assets at December 31, 2008. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three functional lines: commercial and industrial loans (including financial and agricultural), real estate loans (commercial mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans). The composition of the portfolio by these major categories is presented in Table 9 “Loan Portfolio.”  

Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk adjusted return on capital. Total loans, net of unearned income, increased at a relatively slow pace during 2008. A challenging economic environment, particularly in the real estate sector, was the primary factor leading to the modest growth. Regions is continuing to make credit available to consumers, small businesses and commercial companies as intended by Treasury and the Congress in establishing the government investment in banks (See “Stockholders’ Equity” section found later in this report). During the fourth quarter of 2008, the government’s investment of $3.5 billion strengthened Regions’ regulatory capital, which supported origination of approximately $16.5 billion in new and renewed loans and lines, including unfunded commitments. This lending production was during an economic environment when lending is typically flat or reduced.  

Table 9 shows a year-over-year comparison of loans by loan type.  

Table 9—Loan Portfolio  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Breakout of residential first mortgage not available for 2005 and 2004 due to the AmSouth merger; residential first mortgage is included in commercial real estate for 2005 and 2004.  

51  

Table of Contents 

Table 10—Selected Loan Maturities 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Note: Table 10 excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect and other consumer loans.  

Commercial and Industrial—Commercial and industrial loans represent loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases or other expansion projects. During 2008, commercial and industrial loan balances increased 13 percent, driven by a combination of new production, increased line utilization, selective market share gains, and higher funding under letters of credit supporting Variable Rate Demand Notes (“VRDNs”). Refer to “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” section for discussion of VRDNs found later in this report’s “Management’s Discussion and Analysis”.   

Commercial Real Estate—Commercial real estate loans consist of loans to operating businesses, loans for real estate development, and various other loans secured by real estate. Commercial real estate loans to operating businesses are for long-term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. These loans, sometimes referred to as “owner occupied commercial real estate”, are a subset of the commercial real estate category presented in Table 9, and totaled approximately $11.7 billion as of December 31, 2008. Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. These loans are made to finance income-producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. While loan production and pipeline activity declined in 2008, the commercial real estate portfolio grew $3.1 billion to $26.2 billion in 2008, largely attributable to a slow down in payoffs, draws on unfunded commitments, and transfers of construction lending to permanently financed commercial real estate. Regions’ focus in commercial real estate lending is to effectively manage its existing portfolio and to support those clients who have full relationships with the Company. In addition, Regions considers new projects with sound sponsorship and fundamentals and which meet the Company’s standards for risk-adjusted return on capital.  

Construction—Construction loans are loans to individuals, companies or developers used for the purchase or construction of a commercial property for which repayment will be generated by cash flows related to the operation, sale or refinance to permanent financing of the property. A significant portion of Regions’ real estate construction portfolio is comprised of residential product types (land, single-family and condominium loans) within Regions’ markets, and to a lesser degree retail and multi-family projects. Typically, these loans are for construction projects that have been presold, preleased or otherwise have secured permanent financing as well as loans to real estate companies that have significant equity invested in each project. During 2008, outstanding construction balances declined $2.7 billion to $10.6 billion as a result of Regions selling or transferring to held for sale many of these loans. In addition, outstanding balances declined as construction projects were completed and converted from construction to commercial real estate loans and new construction originations declined.  

52  

Table of Contents 

During late 2007, the residential homebuilder portfolio, which totaled $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2008, came under significant stress. In Table 9 “Loan Portfolio”, the majority of these loans are reported in the construction loan category, while a smaller portion is reported under the commercial real estate loan category. The residential homebuilder portfolio is geographically concentrated in Florida and North Georgia. Regions realigned its organizational structure in January 2008 to enable some of the Company’s most experienced bankers to concentrate their efforts on management of this portfolio. See the “Residential Homebuilder Portfolio” table in the “Credit Risk” section later in this report for further detail on the residential homebuilder portfolio.  

Residential First Mortgage—Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $1.1 billion decline to $15.8 billion in 2008. Demand for this type of lending slowed during 2008 as property values declined, new and used home sales reached historically low levels, and credit markets contracted in general. However, due to declining mortgage rates, which became especially attractive late in 2008 and into early 2009, refinancing activity increased substantially as 2009 began.  

Loans to consumers with weak credit history, generally called sub-prime loans, became a cause for industry concern beginning in 2007 and the performance of these loans deteriorated significantly as 2008 progressed. Regions’ exposure to sub-prime loans is insignificant, at approximately $77.3 million at December 31, 2008, and continues to decline. This is a product that Regions does not currently originate. The credit loss exposure related to these loans is addressed in management’s periodic determination of the allowance for credit losses.  

Home Equity—Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower’s residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Real estate market values as of the time the loan or line is secured directly affect the amount of credit extended and, in addition, changes in these values impact the depth of potential losses. During 2008, home equity balances increased $1.2 billion to $16.1 billion, driven by a slowing of paydowns and an increase in lending to creditworthy customers.  

The majority of Regions’ home equity lending balances was originated through its branch network and the Company has not purchased broker-originated or other third-party production. However, home equity losses still increased significantly in 2008, impacted by the unprecedented drop in real estate values coupled with a deteriorating economy. The main source of stress has been in Florida, where home values declined precipitously in 2007 and 2008. Further, losses on relationships in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position have been especially high; much higher, in fact, than the remaining areas of Regions geographic footprint.  

Indirect—Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third-party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. Loans of this type decreased $84.3 million, or 2.1 percent, during 2008 largely due to the Company’s decision to exit certain lines of business. Regions continually rationalizes the risk/reward characteristics of each of its lending lines and, as noted, ceased new originations within the indirect auto lending business in 2008 and the marine and recreational vehicle lending businesses in 2007. Each of these portfolios is a declining element in the overall loan portfolio and will continue to reduce as loans are repaid. Losses within the indirect portfolio increased during the year primarily driven by economic conditions, including high gasoline prices and rising unemployment levels.  

Other Consumer—Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving credit, and educational loans. Other consumer loans decreased 47.5 percent in 2008 to $1.2 billion due to the sale or transfer to held for sale of student loans and a general contraction in credit markets.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Loans Held for Sale  

At December 31, 2008, loans held for sale totaled $1.3 billion, consisting of $420 million of non-performing commercial real estate and construction loans, $513 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, and $349 million of student loans. At December 31, 2007, loans held for sale totaled $720.9 million, consisting solely of residential real estate mortgage loans in the process of being sold to third parties.  

During 2008, in an effort to manage its exposure to non-performing assets, Regions made a strategic decision to intensify its efforts to sell certain portions of non-performing loans. During 2008, the Company sold or classified as loans held for sale $1.3 billion of non-performing loans through its efforts. Regions marks all loans to the lower of cost or market value at the time they are classified as held for sale and continues to evaluate valuation at each reporting period.  

Lower residential first origination volumes and tightening of the secondary market for residential mortgage production—a result of the weakening housing market in 2008—somewhat offset the increase in loans held for sale resulting from the increased commercial sales activity described above. Refer to the “Credit Risk” section later in this report for more discussion on asset quality and non-performing assets.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses represents management’s estimate of credit losses inherent in both the loan portfolio and unfunded credit commitments as of the balance sheet date. The allowance consists of two components: the allowance for loans losses, which is recorded as a contra-asset to loans, and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments, which is recorded in other liabilities. At December 31, 2008, the allowance for credit losses totaled $1.9 billion or 1.95 percent of loans, net of unearned income, compared to $1.4 billion or 1.45 percent at year-end 2007. See “Allowance for Credit Losses” in the “Risk Management” section found later in this report for a detailed discussion of the allowance.  

Securities   

Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, regulatory capital, and to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. The portfolio consists primarily of high-quality mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, as well as U.S. Treasury and Federal agency securities. Securities represented 13 percent of total assets at December 31, 2008 compared with 12 percent at December 31, 2007. In 2008, total securities, which are almost entirely classified as available for sale, increased $1.5 billion, or 8.8 percent. Growth was largely the result of securities purchased as a part of Regions’ interest rate risk management activities. The “Interest Rate Risk” section, found later in this report, further explains Regions’ interest rate risk management practices. The weighted-average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 5.07 percent in 2008 and 5.03 percent in 2007. Table 11 “Securities” illustrates the carrying values of securities by category.  

Table 11—Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

54  

Table of Contents 

At December 31, 2008, securities available for sale included a net unrealized loss of $12.7 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year-end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized loss represents $564.5 million in gross unrealized losses and $551.8 million in gross unrealized gains. At December 31, 2007, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $149.6 million, which consisted of $199.5 million of gross unrealized gains and $49.9 million in gross unrealized losses. The net unrealized loss at December 31, 2008 reflects primarily the impact of lower interest rates and widening of credit and liquidity spreads related to U.S. Treasury securities, Federal agency securities and mortgage-backed securities. Regions evaluates securities in a loss position for other-than-temporary impairment, considering such factors as the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, and Regions’ ability and intent to hold the security until its market value recovers. During 2008 and 2007, Regions recognized a write-down of securities within the General Banking/Treasury segment of approximately $28.3 million and $7.2 million, respectively, representing other-than-temporary impairment, related primarily to equity securities and retained interests on beneficial interests. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax.  

In January 2009, Regions sold approximately $656 million in available for sale U.S Treasury securities and recognized a gain of approximately $52.1 million. The proceeds were reinvested in U.S. government agency mortgage-backed securities classified as available for sale.  

Maturity Analysis—The average life of the securities portfolio at December 31, 2008 was estimated to be 3.0 years, with a duration of approximately 2.6 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.8 years, with a duration of approximately 2.9 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2007. Table 12 “Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities” provides additional details.  

Table 12—Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Notes:  

 1. The weighted-average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted-average yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a fully taxable-equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35%. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non-deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax-exempt obligations.  

 2. Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table above.  

Portfolio Quality—Regions’ investment policy stresses credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and   

55  

Table of Contents 

 government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 98.5 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2008. State, county, and local municipal securities rated below single A or which are non-rated represented only 1.5 percent of total securities at year-end 2008.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Cash and cash equivalents include cash and cash due from banks, interest-bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2008 these assets totaled $11.0 billion as compared to $4.7 billion at December 31, 2007. The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by Regions’ participation in the Term Auction Facility (“TAF”) auctions, which have provided excess balances in its Federal Reserve Bank account. The excess balances are held to provide additional insulation from unforeseen contingent funding needs.  

Trading Account Assets  

Trading account assets decreased $41.1 million to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2008. Trading account assets, which consist of U.S. Government agency and guaranteed securities and corporate and tax-exempt securities, are primarily held at Morgan Keegan for the purpose of selling at a profit. Also included in trading account assets are securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account assets are carried at market value with changes in market value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. Table 13 “Trading Account Assets” provides a detail by type of security.  

Table 13—Trading Account Assets  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Premises and Equipment  

Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2008 increased $175.2 million to $2.8 billion compared to year-end 2007. This increase primarily resulted from the continued investment in capital additions, including the opening of 20 new branches during 2008.  

Goodwill  

Goodwill at December 31, 2008 totaled $5.5 billion as compared to $11.5 billion at December 31, 2007. The decrease was driven by a $6.0 billion fourth quarter 2008 non-cash impairment charge to the asset carrying value. The impairment testing is performed on each of the Company’s reportable units on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. As of December 31, 2008, Regions’ analysis indicated impairment for the General Banking/Treasury reporting unit’s goodwill, therefore resulting in the goodwill impairment charge. The primary cause of the goodwill impairment in the General Banking/Treasury reporting unit was the continued and significant decline in the estimated fair value of the unit. This was evidenced by rapid deterioration in credit costs, continued compression of the net interest margin, cost of   

56  

Table of Contents 

 preferred stock investment by the U.S. Treasury and continued declines in the Company’s overall market capitalization, compounded by investor anxiety caused by the financial crises affecting the U.S. banking system. See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 10 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for additional details.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2008 totaled $160.9 million compared to $321.3 million at December 31, 2007. A summary of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Table 14 “Mortgage Servicing Rights.” The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors and include original amounts capitalized, less accumulated amortization and a valuation allowance. The carrying values of mortgage servicing rights are affected by various factors, including estimated prepayments of the underlying mortgages and market rates. A significant change in prepayments of mortgages in the servicing portfolio or market rates for mortgage loans could result in significant changes in the valuation adjustments, thus creating potential volatility in the carrying amount of mortgage servicing rights. The mortgage servicing rights valuation allowance increased by $72.4 million in 2008, primarily due to lower mortgage rates and corresponding increased estimated prepayment speeds. During 2008, the Company sold mortgage servicing rights on approximately $3.4 billion of GNMA loans and recognized a loss of $14.9 million, including transaction costs. On December 31, 2007, mortgage servicing rights on approximately $1.9 billion of loans in Regions’ out-of-market servicing portfolio were sold at a $4.4 million loss.  

On January 1, 2009, Regions made an election allowed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 156, “Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets” (“FAS 156”) and began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income on the consolidated statements of operations. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights.  

Table 14—Mortgage Servicing Rights  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other Identifiable Intangible Assets  

Other identifiable intangible assets, consisting primarily of core deposit intangibles, totaled $638.4 million at December 31, 2008 compared to $759.8 million at December 31, 2007. The year-over-year decline is mainly the result of amortization. Regions noted no indicators of impairment for any other identifiable intangible assets. See Note 10 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Other Assets  

Other assets increased $1.2 billion to $8.0 billion as of December 31, 2008. This increase is primarily related to higher customer derivatives, a result of the low interest rate environment, as well as derivatives used by the Company for hedging purposes.  

57  

Table of Contents 

DEPOSITS  

Deposits are Regions’ primary source of funds, providing funding for 75 percent of average interest-earning assets in 2008 and 82 percent in 2007. Table 15 “Deposits” details year-over-year deposits on a period-ending basis. Total deposits as of year-end 2008 decreased $3.9 billion, or 4.1 percent, compared to year-end 2007, driven lower mainly by reduced use of wholesale deposit sources used for overnight funding purposes. More specifically, Regions reduced its usage of foreign deposits (which Regions uses as a source of short-term wholesale funding) in 2008, due to growth in customer deposits.  

Customer deposits, which are total deposits excluding deposits used for treasury management purposes as described above, increased by 4.6 percent to $90.8 billion on an ending basis during 2008. Time deposits (e.g., certificates of deposit) were the main source of growth, while non-interest bearing demand and domestic money market balances also grew slightly. Increases in time deposits were offset by decreases in interest-bearing transaction accounts and foreign money market accounts. Deposit disintermediation through a flight to quality, such as Treasury securities, exerted pressure on bank deposits industry-wide in 2008. Furthermore, during the year, Regions also experienced substantial pricing strain from both community banks and some larger competitors. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions’ time deposits and money market accounts grew in response to customers’ desire to lock-in rates in a falling rate environment. Also a factor in overall deposit growth, during the third quarter of 2008, Regions, in an FDIC-assisted transaction, assumed approximately $900 million of deposits, primarily time deposits, from Integrity Bank in Alpharetta, Georgia.  

Table 15—Deposits  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions’ ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers’ needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and expanding the traditional branch network to provide convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also services customers through providing centralized, high-quality telephone banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking. During 2008, the banking industry experienced very high deposit pricing due to liquidity concerns, thereby accentuating pricing pressure on Regions and the industry as a whole. 

58  

Table of Contents 

Non-interest-bearing deposits remained relatively unchanged versus the prior year, increasing by $39.4 million in 2008. Movement of balances to interest-bearing offerings, including Regions’ money market accounts and time deposits, among other product types or investment alternatives was a factor in limiting growth. Non-interest-bearing deposits accounted for approximately 20 percent of total deposits at year-end 2008 as compared to 19 percent at year-end 2007.  

Savings balances were also consistent with prior year as they increased $16.3 million to $3.7 billion, generally reflecting customers’ preference for higher-paying accounts, including money market accounts.  

Interest-bearing transaction accounts declined 5.2 percent to $15.0 billion due to pricing pressure from community banks as well as larger competitors. Customers also migrated to time deposits in order to take advantage of higher rates.  

Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions’ most significant funding sources, accounting for 21 percent of total deposits in 2008, compared to 20 percent in 2007. These balances increased 2.8 percent in 2008 to $19.5 billion as compared to the prior year. Money market accounts were down most of the year; however, Regions experienced a significant increase in the fourth quarter of 2008 as customers moved into money market accounts and time deposits to take advantage of higher rates. Also, foreign money market accounts decreased $1.7 billion, or 48 percent, to $1.8 billion in 2008.  

Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits increased 22 percent in 2008 to $32.4 billion compared to $26.5 billion in 2007. The increase was primarily due to customers’ demand for higher-rate deposits. Customer time deposits accounted for 36 percent of total deposits in 2008 compared to 28 percent in 2007.  

Total treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, decreased by $7.8 billion during 2008, due to the Company’s use of other funding sources, including increased customer-based deposits and the additional funding provided through new governmental liquidity programs. The Company’s choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Company’s particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each offering.  

The sensitivity of Regions’ deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions’ average interest rate paid on interest-bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest-bearing deposits decreased to 2.38 percent in 2008 from 3.47 percent in 2007. This decrease is largely due to the significant decrease in market rates as evidenced by the Federal Funds rate in 2008, somewhat offset by increased competitive pressures. Table 16 “Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More” presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2008 and 2007.  

Table 16—Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

59  

Table of Contents 

SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS  

Regions’ short-term borrowings consist primarily of federal funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances, and TAF borrowings. See Note 13 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further detail and discussion.  

Federal funds purchased from downstream sources and securities sold under agreements to repurchase totaled $3.1 billion at December 31, 2008, compared to $8.8 billion at year-end 2007. Regions had zero balances in federal funds purchased from up-stream correspondents at December 31, 2008. The level of federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase can fluctuate significantly on a day-to-day basis, depending on funding requirements and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. The balance of federal funds purchased and security repurchase agreements, net of federal funds sold and security reverse repurchase agreements, decreased $5.7 billion in 2008.  

As one source of funding, the Company utilized short-term borrowings through the issuance of FHLB advances. FHLB borrowings are used to satisfy short-term funding requirements and can fluctuate between periods. FHLB borrowings totaled $1.5 billion at December 31, 2008 compared to $100.0 million at December 31, 2007. The increase in FHLB borrowings reflects the opportunity during 2008 to reduce overnight funding and diversify into slightly longer-term maturities at preferable rates.  

During 2008, Regions was an active participant in the Federal Reserve’s TAF, which was designed to address pressures in short-term funding markets. Under the TAF, the Federal Reserve auctions term funds to depository institutions with maturities of 28 or 84 days. All depository institutions that are eligible to borrow under the primary credit program are eligible to participate in TAF auctions. All advances are fully collateralized using collateral values and margins applicable for other Federal Reserve lending programs. As of December 31, 2008, Regions had outstanding through the TAF, $10.0 billion at an average rate of 1.1 percent. Consistent with the Treasury’s purpose for TAF, Regions used TAF to provide additional liquidity at low rates and to build excess reserves in the Federal Reserve Bank account. This program provides Regions with an alternative source of short-term funding and aids in maintaining the stability of the financial markets by reducing uncertainty about the supply of reserves in the banking system and simplifying the Federal Reserve’s implementation of monetary policy.  

As of December 31, 2008, Regions had $125 thousand outstanding in the Federal Reserve’s Treasury, Tax, and Loan Program, compared to $1.2 billion at December 31, 2007.  

Regions maintains a liability for its brokerage customer position through Morgan Keegan. This liability represents liquid funds in customers’ brokerage accounts. Balances due to brokerage customers totaled $430.6 million at December 31, 2008 as compared to $505.5 million at December 31, 2007. The short-sale liability, which is primarily maintained at Morgan Keegan in connection with trading obligations related to customer accounts, was $628.7 million at December 31, 2008 compared to $451.3 million at December 31, 2007. The balance of this account fluctuates frequently based on customer activity.  

Other short-term borrowings increased by $27.0 million to $120.1 million at December 31, 2008. This balance includes certain lines of credit that Morgan Keegan maintains with unaffiliated banks and derivative collateral. The lines of credit had maximum borrowings of $585 million at December 31, 2008.  

Table 17 “Selected Short-Term Borrowings Data” provides selected information for short-term borrowing for years 2008, 2007, and 2006.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Table 17—Selected Short-Term Borrowings Data  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

LONG-TERM BORROWINGS  

Regions’ long-term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, subordinated notes, senior notes and other long-term notes payable. Total long-term debt increased $7.9 billion to $19.2 billion at December 31, 2008. See Note 14 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Membership in the FHLB system provides access to a source of lower-cost funds. Long-term FHLB advances totaled $8.1 billion at December 31, 2008, an increase of $4.3 billion compared to 2007.  

In October 2008, the FDIC announced its TLGP to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts, and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Under the final rules, certain newly issued senior unsecured debt with maturities greater than 30 days issued on or before June 30, 2009, would be backed by the “full faith and credit” of the U.S. government through June 30, 2012. The FDIC’s payment obligation under the guarantee for eligible senior unsecured debt will be triggered by a payment default. The guarantee is limited to 125% of senior unsecured debt as of September 30, 2008 that is scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. This includes federal funds purchased, promissory notes, commercial paper, and certain types of inter-bank funding. Participants will be charged a 50-100 basis point fee to protect their new debt issues which varies depending on the maturity date (amounts paid as a non-refundable fee will be applied to offset the guaranteed fee until the non-refundable fee is exhausted). Regions issued $3.75 billion of qualifying senior debt securities covered by the TLGP in December 2008, and has remaining capacity under the program to issue up to an additional $4 billion.  

Long-term borrowings also increased in 2008 as a result of the Company’s issuance of $750 million of subordinated notes and $345 million of trust preferred securities. The increase from these issuances was partially offset by the redemption of approximately $630 million in subordinated notes in 2008, resulting in a $65.4 million loss on early extinguishment of debt (see Table 8 “Non-Interest Expense (Including Non-GAAP Reconciliation)”), and the maturity of approximately $750 million of senior debt notes during the year. As of December 31, 2008, Regions had outstanding subordinated notes totaling $4.4 billion compared to $4.3 billion at December 31, 2007. Regions’ subordinated notes consist of 11 issues with interest rates ranging from 4.85   

61  

Table of Contents 

 percent to 7.75 percent. Senior debt and bank notes totaled $4.8 billion at December 31, 2008 compared to $1.8 billion at December 31, 2007, reflecting the $3.75 billion TLGP issuance, offset by the maturity of $750 million of senior debt notes during the year.  

During 2007, Regions Financing Trust II issued $700 million of institutional enhanced trust preferred securities, which are reflected as junior subordinated notes. Also in 2007, $225.8 million of Union Planters trust preferred securities were called and the related 8.20 percent junior subordinated notes were redeemed.  

Other long-term debt at December 31, 2008 and 2007, had weighted-average interest rates of 2.9 percent and 6.1 percent, respectively, and a weighted-average maturity of 4.9 years at December 31, 2008. Regions has $62.8 million included in other long-term debt in connection with a seller-lessee transaction with continuing involvement. See Note 25 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

During 2007, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC. This shelf registration can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and/or equity securities, and does not have a limit on the amount of securities that can be issued.  

Regions’ long-term debt includes $175 million of callable subordinated notes that mature in early 2009. See Note 14 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding these transactions.  

RATINGS  

Table 18 “Credit Ratings” reflects the debt ratings of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by Standard & Poor’s Corporation, Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch IBCA and Dominion Bond Rating Service as of December 31, 2008.  

A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  

Table 18—Credit Ratings  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table reflects ratings as of December 31, 2008.  

In February 2009, Regions Financial Corporation’s senior notes, subordinated notes, and junior subordinated notes were downgraded to A3, Baa1, and Baa1, respectively, by Moody’s, reflecting the Company’s concentration in residential homebuilder and home equity lending, particularly in Florida. Also, Moody’s downgraded Regions Bank’s long-term bank deposits, long-term debt, and subordinated debt to A2, A2, and A3, respectively. These downgrades are not expected to have a significant impact on Regions’ earnings in 2009.  

62  

Table of Contents 

STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  

Stockholders’ equity decreased to $16.8 billion at year-end 2008 versus $19.8 billion at year-end 2007, primarily reflecting the Company’s $5.6 billion net loss due to the $6.0 billion goodwill impairment charge, offset by $3.5 billion related to the issuance of preferred stock and a warrant for 48.3 million shares of Regions’ common stock at an initial per share price of $10.88 under the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). The warrant expires ten years from the issuance date. Under the terms of the government’s investment in preferred stock of the Company, Regions must pay an annual dividend of 5 percent, or $175 million annually, for the first five years, and a 9 percent dividend thereafter, until the Company has redeemed the shares. In addition, as part of the Company’s participation in the program, Regions cannot repurchase shares or increase the dividend payment above the current rate of $0.10 per share without permission from the U.S. Treasury until November 14, 2011 or until the U.S. Treasury no longer owns any of Regions’ Series A Preferred Stock. As stated above, the government also received a 10-year warrant for common stock, which will give the U.S. Treasury the opportunity to benefit from an increase in the price of the Company’s common stock. Accrued dividends on preferred shares reduced retained earnings by $26.2 million in 2008.  

Common dividends declared reduced stockholders’ equity by $669.0 million. In addition, the net change in unrealized loss on securities available for sale and the net change from defined benefit pension plans decreased stockholders’ equity by $414.6 million. Offsetting these items was a $190.1 million increase from the net change in unrealized gains on derivative instruments. The internal capital generation rate (net income available to common shareholders less dividends as a percentage of average stockholders’ equity) was negative 31.6 percent in 2008 compared to 1.1 percent in 2007. Excluding the $6.0 billion non-cash goodwill impairment charge, the 2008 internal capital generation rate was negative 1.5 percent.  

During 2007, Regions repurchased 40.8 million common shares at a total cost of $1.4 billion. There were no treasury stock purchases in 2008. Although the Company has 23.1 million common shares available for repurchase under its current share repurchase authorization, under the terms of the CPP, Regions is not eligible to repurchase treasury shares without permission from the U.S. Treasury until November 14, 2011 or until the U.S. Treasury no longer owns any of Regions’ Series A Preferred Stock.  

Regions’ ratio of stockholders’ equity to total assets was 11.5 percent at December 31, 2008 compared to 14.1 percent at December 31, 2007. Regions’ ratio of tangible common stockholders’ equity (stockholders’ equity less goodwill and other identifiable intangibles) to total tangible assets was 5.23 percent at December 31, 2008 compared to 5.88 percent at December 31, 2007, mainly reflecting the reduced earnings and the increasing balance sheet, reflecting proceeds from the $3.5 billion CPP and the $3.75 billion TLGP issuances.  

Regions attempts to balance the return to stockholders through the payment of dividends with the need to maintain strong capital levels for future growth opportunities. After careful consideration of the current environment, Regions reduced its dividend in 2008. This decision will strengthen its capital ratios as the Company navigates the current economic environment. Regions’ total dividends in 2008 were $669.0 million, or $0.96 per share, a decrease of 34.2 percent from the $1.46 per share paid in 2007. Under the terms of the CPP, Regions is unable to increase its common dividend above the current rate of $0.10 per share without approval from the U.S. Treasury until November 14, 2011 or until the U.S. Treasury no longer owns any of Regions’ Series A Preferred Stock.  

Regions is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking subsidiary Regions Bank. Regions’ principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to its stockholders, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to Regions. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to Regions. Given the loss at Regions Bank during 2008, under the Federal Reserve’s rules, Regions Bank does not expect to be able to pay dividends to Regions in the near term without first obtaining regulatory approval.  

63  

Table of Contents 

The ability of Regions to pay dividends to its shareholders, however, is not totally dependent on the receipt of dividends from Regions Bank, as Regions has other cash available to make such payment. As of December 31, 2008, Regions had $4.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents, which is available for corporate purposes, including debt service and to pay dividends to its shareholders. This compares to an anticipated common dividend requirement, assuming current dividend payment levels, of approximately $277 million and preferred cash dividends of approximately $175 million for the full-year 2009. Expected debt maturities in 2009 total approximately $425 million.  

Although Regions currently has capacity to make common dividend payments in 2009, the payment of dividends by Regions and the dividend rate are subject to management review and approval by Regions’ Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Preferred dividends are to be paid in accordance with the terms of the CPP. See Item 1 “Business” and Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for additional information.  

BANK REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS  

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with capital adequacy standards established by banking regulatory agencies. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure.  

The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure and interest rate risk, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with specified risk-weighting factors. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items. Banking organizations that are considered to have excessive interest rate risk exposure are required to maintain higher levels of capital.  

The minimum standard for the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets is 8%. At least 50% of that capital level must consist of common equity, undivided profits and non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, less goodwill and certain other intangibles (“Tier 1 Capital”). The remainder (“Tier 2 Capital”) may consist of a limited amount of other preferred stock, mandatory convertible securities, subordinated debt, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. The sum of Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital is “total risk-based capital” or total capital.  

The banking regulatory agencies also have adopted regulations that supplement the risk-based guidelines to include a minimum ratio of 3% of Tier 1 Capital to average assets less goodwill (the “Leverage ratio”). Depending upon the risk profile of the institution and other factors, the regulatory agencies may require a Leverage ratio of 1% to 2% above the minimum 3% level.  

In October, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system. The U.S. Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. Under the U. S. Treasury’s CPP, Regions received $3.5 billion through its issuance of preferred stock and a warrant for common stock to the U.S. Treasury. The preferred stock issuance and the related warrant both qualify for Tier 1 capital and added approximately 300 basis points to that measure. The fair value allocation of the $3.5 billion between the preferred shares and the warrant resulted in $3.304 billion allocated to the preferred shares and $196 million allocated to the warrant. Both the preferred securities and the warrant will be accounted for as components of Regions’ regulatory Tier 1 capital. See discussion of “Stockholders’ Equity” above for additional details.  

64  

Table of Contents 

The following chart summarizes the applicable bank regulatory capital requirements. Regions’ capital ratios at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 substantially exceeded all regulatory requirements.  

Table 19—Capital Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Includes $79,654 and $60,469 in 2008 and 2007, respectively, associated with reserves recorded for off-balance sheet credit exposures, including derivatives.  

Total capital at Regions Bank also has an important effect on the amount of FDIC insurance premiums paid. Institutions not considered well capitalized can be subject to higher rates for FDIC insurance. Other requirements are needed in addition to total capital in order for a company to be considered well capitalized. See Note 15 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements for further details. As of December 31, 2008, Regions Bank had the requisite capital levels to qualify as well capitalized.  

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 and the FDIC’s revised premium assessment program, every FDIC-insured institution will pay some level of deposit insurance assessments regardless of the level of designated reserve ratio. Regions Bank had a FICO assessment of $10 million in FDIC deposit premiums in 2008 and $11 million in 2007, both of which were expensed in their respective years.  

The FDIC also has finalized rules providing for a one-time credit to each eligible insured depository institution based on the assessment base of the institution on December 31, 1996. Regions Bank qualified for a credit of approximately $110 million, of which $34 million was applied in 2007, $41 million in 2008, and the remaining balance of $35 million will be used in 2009, thereby exhausting the credit.  

On October 7, 2008, the Board of Directors of the FDIC adopted a restoration plan accompanied by a notice of proposed rulemaking that would increase the rates banks pay for deposit insurance, while at the same time   

65  

Table of Contents 

 making adjustments to the system that determines what rate a bank pays the FDIC. Under this and additional proposals, the assessment rate schedule will be raised beginning on January 1, 2009. Also during 2009, Regions’ one-time assessment credit will expire. Based on certain assumptions regarding various assessment criteria, including future deposit levels, Regions estimates FDIC premiums will increase within a range of $90 million to $110 million (pre-tax) during 2009. Assessment rates, however, are subject to change by the FDIC throughout the year.  

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

Regions’ primary off-balance sheet arrangements are financial instruments issued in connection with lending activities. These arrangements include commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit and commercial letters of credit. A meaningful component of the off-balance sheet arrangements are facilities supporting Variable Rate Demand Notes (“VRDNs”), including certain standby letters of credit and standby bond purchase agreements (also referred to as “liquidity facilities”). Fundings under these letters of credit are largely related to redemption requests in money market mutual funds that invested in VRDNs as a result of the increased volatility in the financial markets. Late in 2008, disruption in market liquidity supporting VRDNs resulted in significant frequency of failed remarketing of VRDNs. As of December 31, 2008, Regions had funded $331.7 million in letters of credit backing VRDN’s. An additional $9 million had been tendered but not yet funded. The remaining unfunded VRDN letters of credit portfolio is approximately $4.9 billion (net of participations). See Note 25 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion, including details of the contractual amounts outstanding at December 31, 2008.  

Regions has certain variable interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owns the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which have issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (“trust preferred securities”) in the aggregate of $1.0 billion at the time of issuance. These trusts meet the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions is not the primary beneficiary; the trusts’ only assets are junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. The junior subordinated debentures are included in long-term borrowings and Regions’ equity interests in the business trusts are included in other assets. For regulatory reporting and capital adequacy purposes, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that such trust preferred securities will continue to constitute Tier 1 Capital until further notice.  

Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity with equity typically comprising 30% to 50% of the total partnership capital. Regions’ maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2008 was $710.0 million, which included $298.1 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short-term construction loans or letters of credit with the partnerships totaling $187.7 million as of December 31, 2008. The portion of the letters of credit which was funded was $114.8 million at December 31, 2008. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 “Variable Interest Entities” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

EFFECTS OF INFLATION  

The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity-to-assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation.  

Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions’ ability to react to changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced   

66  

Table of Contents 

 position between rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. This goal, however, can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure, such as that experienced in 2008.  

EFFECTS OF DEFLATION  

A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings.  

Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions’ ability to maintain a high amount of capital to cushion against future losses. In addition, the Company’s risk management can utilize certain tools to help the bank maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop.  

RISK MANAGEMENT  

Risk identification and risk management are key elements in the overall management of Regions. Management believes the primary risk exposures are interest rate and associated prepayment risk, liquidity risk, market and other brokerage-related risk associated with Morgan Keegan, counterparty risk, and credit risk. Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or securities earlier than at their stated maturities. Liquidity risk relates to Regions’ ability to fund present and future obligations. The Company, through Morgan Keegan, is also subject to various market-related risks associated with its brokerage and market-related activities. Counterparty risk represents the risk that a counterparty will not comply with its contractual obligations. Credit risk represents the possibility that borrowers may not be able to repay loans.  

External factors beyond management’s control may result in losses despite risk management efforts. Management follows a formal policy to evaluate and document the key risks facing each line of business, how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors the controls to ensure that they are effective. Regions’ Internal Audit Division performs ongoing, independent reviews of the risk management process and assures the adequacy of documentation. The results of these reviews are reported regularly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The Company also has a Risk Committee that assists the Board of Directors in overseeing the Company’s policies, procedures and practices relating to market, regulatory and operational risk.  

Some of the more significant processes used to manage and control these and other risks are described in the remainder of this report.  

INTEREST RATE RISK   

Regions’ primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short-term indicator of Regions’ interest rate risk.  

Sensitivity Measurement—Financial simulation models are Regions’ primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions’ balance sheet. Assumptions are made   

67  

Table of Contents 

 about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate-related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing administered rate accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior. Financial derivative instruments are used in hedging the values of selected assets and liabilities against changes in interest rates. The effect of these hedges is included in the simulations of net interest income.  

The primary objective of Asset/Liability Management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. A standard set of alternate interest rate scenarios is compared to the results of the base case scenario to determine the extent of potential fluctuations and to establish exposure limits. The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus and minus 100 and 200 basis points. However, for the purposes of analyzing the impact of further downward movement in the rate structure, in the down scenarios, whenever prevailing rates are less than 100 basis points (e.g. the Federal Funds Target rate is currently at 0 to 25 basis points) rates have been assumed to be zero. Accordingly, the Company has determined that the down 200 scenario that is typically calculated is not a meaningful measure. Refer to Table 20 “Interest Rate Sensitivity” for more information.  

In addition to instantaneous scenarios, Regions employs simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. The gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six-month period.  

Exposure to Interest Rate Movements—As of December 31, 2008, Regions was asset sensitive in positioning to both gradual and instantaneous rate shifts. Table 20 “Interest Rate Sensitivity” demonstrates the estimated potential effects that gradual (over six months beginning at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively) and instantaneous parallel interest rate shifts would have on Regions’ net interest income.  

Table 20—Interest Rate Sensitivity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Derivatives—Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (“ALCO”), which consists of members of Regions’ senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures   

68  

Table of Contents 

 contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to hedge the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks.  

Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a three-month Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed-upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Company’s customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform.  

Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed-rate funding position to a variable-rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable-rate loan portfolio to fixed-rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held-for-sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing.  

Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolio by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non-dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and/or posted to that counterparty. The “Credit Risk” section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk.  

Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge the market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations.  

The primary objective of Regions’ hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions’ execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. As a result, Regions’ hedging strategies may be ineffective in mitigating the impact of interest rate changes on its earnings. See Note 22 “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities” to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions’ year-end derivatives positions.  

On January 1, 2009 Regions made an election allowed by FAS 156 and began accounting for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Also, in early 2009, Regions entered into derivative transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights.  

69  

Table of Contents 

PREPAYMENT RISK  

Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage-related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower-yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions’ interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Regions’ greatest exposure to prepayment risks primarily rests in its mortgage-backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed-rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Prepayments on mortgage-backed securities slowed during the latter half of 2008 due to various factors associated with the housing crisis. Tighter lending standards, decreased home prices, and uncertainty surrounding the economic environment created slower prepayment speeds on mortgage-backed securities. Regions also has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non-interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. In 2008, prepayment rates were lower compared to recent years; however the Company anticipates the rate of prepayments to increase in 2009, driven primarily by the high refinancing activity the Company has experienced since the start of the year. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management.  

LIQUIDITY RISK  

Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions’ ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Table 21 “Contractual Obligations” summarizes Regions’ contractual cash obligations at December 31, 2008. Regions intends to fund contractual obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies (see Note 25 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements).  

Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders’ equity. Regions’ goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting its cash flow needs. This is accomplished through the active management of both the asset and liability sides of the balance sheet. The liquidity position of Regions is monitored on a daily basis by Regions’ Treasury Division. In addition, the ALCO, which consists of members of Regions’ senior management team, reviews liquidity on a regular basis and approves any changes in strategy that are necessary as a result of asset/liability composition or anticipated cash flow changes. Management also compares Regions’ liquidity position to established corporate liquidity policies on a monthly basis.  

Table 21—Contractual Obligations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

70  

Table of Contents 

The challenges of the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Company’s funding requirements. In 2008, the financial industry was presented with unprecedented challenges. Those challenges included but were not limited to government-assisted transactions, failure of major Wall Street firms, government “bailouts”, and government-guided transactions. All of these events contributed to severely disrupted short-term money markets. The U.S. Treasury introduced several programs in the fall of 2008 to aid in the liquidity normally generated in these markets. TAF was introduced in late 2007, but expanded in size and duration in 2008.  

The securities portfolio is one of Regions’ primary sources of liquidity. Maturities of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Table 12 “Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities”). Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds (see Table 10 “Selected Loan Maturities”). At December 31, 2008, commercial loans, real estate construction loans and commercial real estate mortgage loans with an aggregate balance of $20.9 billion, as well as securities of $229.4 million, were due to mature in one year or less. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one-to-four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can be met by the borrowing of funds in state and national money markets. Historically, Regions’ liquidity has been enhanced by a relatively stable customer deposit base. While this deposit base is significant in size, during most of 2008, deposit disintermediation through a flight to quality, such as Treasury securities, and increased pricing competition from community banks and some large competitors pressured overall customer deposit balances. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions’ customer deposit base grew substantially in response to competitive offers and customers’ desire to lock-in rates in the falling rate environment, as well as the introduction of new consumer and business checking products.  

Regions’ financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing its liquidity position. The maximum amount that could be borrowed under the current borrowing agreement is approximately $1.1 billion (see Note 14 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements). However, the actual borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. At December 31, 2008, approximately $11.6 billion of first mortgage loans on one-to-four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit held by Regions Bank and its subsidiaries were pledged to secure borrowings from the FHLB. Investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $458.2 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, Regions’ borrowings from the FHLB totaled $9.6 billion. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding.  

As mentioned previously in the “Long-Term Borrowings” section of this report, Regions has on file with the SEC, a shelf registration statement, which allows for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of various debt and/or equity securities and does not have a limit on the amount of securities that can be issued.  

As of December 31, 2008, Regions Bank had issued the maximum amount of $5 billion under its previously approved bank note program. In July 2008, the Board of Directors approved a new bank note program that allows Regions Bank to issue up to $20 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes that can be outstanding at any one time. Notes issued under the new program may be senior notes with maturities of from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities of from 5 years to 30 years. This program had not been drawn upon as of December 31, 2008. The issuance of additional bank notes could provide a significant source of liquidity and funding to meet future needs. Investor demand for bank notes had ceased in the current market environment. However, the new TLGP recently enacted by the FDIC, which is discussed later in this section, has reopened this market due to the government’s guarantee backing and has to some extent renewed optimism that this platform will reopen investor demand for unguaranteed issuances. In particular, Regions issued, from the $5 billion bank note program described above, $3.75 billion in guaranteed bank notes during the fourth quarter of 2008 through the TLGP. The Company has remaining capacity under the TLGP to issue up to an additional $4 billion.  

At year-end 2008, based on assets available for collateral as of this date, Regions can borrow an additional $9.0 billion with terms of less than 29 days, or $7.2 billion with terms of greater than 29 days, from the Federal   

71  

Table of Contents 

 Reserve Bank through its discount window and/or the TAF program. As of December 31, 2008, Regions had outstanding through the TAF, $7.0 billion at a rate of 1.39 percent that matured in January 2009 (84 days), $2.0 billion at a rate of 0.60 percent that also matured in January 2009 (28 days), and $1.0 billion at a rate of 0.42 percent that matures at the end of February 2009 (56 days). After the January 2009 TAF borrowings matured, Regions rebid on TAF funds to maintain excess reserve balances to meet potential liquidity needs. The TAF borrowings continue to provide the opportunity to carry excess liquidity at very low rates. Future fundings under commitments to extend credit would increase Regions’ borrowing capacity under these programs.  

In October 2008, the FDIC announced its TLGP to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts, and certain holding companies, and by providing full coverage of non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, regardless of dollar amount. Regions issued $3.75 billion of qualifying senior debt securities covered by the TLGP in December 2008, and has remaining capacity under the program to issue up to an additional $4 billion. See “Long-Term Borrowings”, found earlier in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, for additional details.  

Morgan Keegan maintains certain lines of credit with unaffiliated banks to manage liquidity in the ordinary course of business. See Note 13 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.  

If Regions is unable to maintain or renew its financing arrangements, obtain funding in the capital markets on reasonable terms or experiences a decrease in earnings, it may be required to slow or reduce the growth of the assets on its balance sheet, which may adversely impact its earnings.  

BROKERAGE AND MARKET MAKING ACTIVITY RISK  

Morgan Keegan’s business activities, including its securities inventory positions and securities held for investment, expose it to market risk.  

Morgan Keegan trades for its own account in corporate and tax-exempt securities and U.S. Government agency and government-sponsored securities. Most of these transactions are entered into to facilitate the execution of customers’ orders to buy or sell these securities. In addition, it trades certain equity securities in order to “make a market” in these securities. Morgan Keegan’s trading activities require the commitment of capital. All principal transactions place the subsidiary’s capital at risk. Profits and losses are dependent upon the skills of employees and market fluctuations. In order to mitigate the risks of carrying inventory and as part of other normal brokerage activities, Morgan Keegan assumes short positions on securities.  

In the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into underwriting and forward and future commitments. At December 31, 2008, the contract amounts of futures contracts were $494 thousand to purchase and $60.8 million to sell U.S. Government and municipal securities. Morgan Keegan typically settles its position by entering into equal but opposite contracts and, as such, the contract amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Settlement of the transactions relating to such commitments is not expected to have a material effect on Regions’ consolidated financial position. Transactions involving future settlement give rise to market risk, which represents the potential loss that can be caused by a change in the market value of a particular financial instrument. Regions’ exposure to market risk is determined by a number of factors, including the size, composition and diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative levels of interest rates, and market volatility.  

Additionally, in the normal course of business, Morgan Keegan enters into transactions for delayed delivery, to-be-announced securities, which are recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Risks arise from the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts and from unfavorable changes in interest rates or the market values of the securities underlying the instruments. The credit   

72  

Table of Contents 

 risk associated with these contracts is typically limited to the cost of replacing all contracts on which Morgan Keegan has recorded an unrealized gain. For exchange-traded contracts, the clearing organization acts as the counterparty to specific transactions and, therefore, bears the risk of delivery to and from counterparties.  

Interest rate risk at Morgan Keegan arises from the exposure of holding interest-sensitive financial instruments such as government, corporate and municipal bonds, and certain preferred equities. Morgan Keegan manages its exposure to interest rate risk by setting and monitoring limits and, where feasible, entering into offsetting positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics. Securities inventories, recorded in trading account assets on the consolidated balance sheets, are marked-to-market and, accordingly, there are no unrecorded gains or losses in value. While a significant portion of the securities inventories have contractual maturities in excess of five years, these inventories, on average, turn over in excess of twelve times per year. Accordingly, the exposure to interest rate risk inherent in Morgan Keegan’s securities inventories is less than that of similar financial instruments held by firms in other industries. Morgan Keegan’s equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss in the event of unfavorable price movements. Also, Morgan Keegan is subject to credit risk arising from non-performance by trading counterparties, customers and issuers of debt securities owned. This risk is managed by imposing and monitoring position limits, monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding and marking to market collateral, and conducting business through clearing organizations that guarantee performance. Morgan Keegan regularly participates in the trading of some derivative securities for its customers; however, this activity does not involve Morgan Keegan acquiring a position or commitment in these products and this trading is not a significant portion of Morgan Keegan’s business.  

To manage trading risks arising from interest rate and equity price risks, Regions uses a Value at Risk (“VAR”) model to measure the potential fair value the Company could lose on its trading positions given a specified statistical confidence level and time-to-liquidate time horizon. The end-of-period VAR was approximately $1.1 million as of December 31, 2008 and approximately $1.8 million as of December 31, 2007. Maximum daily VAR utilization during 2008 was $3.6 million and average daily VAR during the same period was $1.7 million.  

Morgan Keegan has been an underwriter and dealer in auction rate securities. Morgan Keegan has been contacted by securities regulators and is working on a plan to provide liquidity to customers holding these instruments. Other broker dealers have entered into settlements with regulators under which the broker dealers agreed to repurchase certain of the securities at par. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $462.1 million of auction rate securities were subject to repurchase, and Morgan Keegan held approximately $139.8 million of auction rate securities on the balance sheet. During 2008, Morgan Keegan recorded valuation adjustments related to those auction rate securities. Such valuation adjustments were not significant.  

On June 4, 2007, the Illinois Secretary of State, Securities Department (“ISD”) issued a Notice of Hearing alleging that Morgan Keegan failed to properly disclose limitations on transferability of shares of certain mutual funds advised by an affiliate of Morgan Keegan. On January 22, 2009, Morgan Keegan and the ISD entered into a settlement agreement requiring that Morgan Keegan (1) make a payment of fifty thousand dollars to an investor education fund; (2) reimburse investigation costs of thirty thousand dollars; (3) waive and/or refund contingent deferred sales charges to certain investors; (4) implement certain disclosures, training and compliance measures; and (5) report to ISD certain investor complaints for a period of one year. On January 23, 2009 the ISD dismissed the Notice with prejudice.  

COUNTERPARTY RISK  

Regions manages and monitors its exposure to other financial institutions, also known as counterparty exposure, on an ongoing basis. The objective is to ensure that Regions appropriately identifies and reacts to risks associated with counterparties in a timely manner. This exposure may be direct or indirect exposure that could create legal, reputational or financial risk to the Company.  

73  

Table of Contents 

Counterparty exposure may result from a variety of transaction types and may include exposure to commercial banks, savings and loans, insurance companies, broker/dealers, institutions that provide credit enhancements, and corporate debt issuers. Because transactions with a counterparty may be generated in one or more departments, credit limits are established for use by various areas of the Company including treasury, capital markets, finance, the mortgage division and lines of business.  

To manage counterparty risk, Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management and monitoring of exposure. To that end, Regions has a dedicated counterparty credit group and credit officer, as well as a documented counterparty credit policy. Exposures to counterparties are regularly aggregated across departments and reported to senior management.  

CREDIT RISK  

Regions’ objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high-quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle.  

Management Process  

Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and commercial real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk-rated, approved and monitored.  

Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the lines of business. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on credit performance. Commercial business units are responsible for underwriting new business and, on an ongoing basis, monitoring the credit of their portfolios, including a complete review of the borrower semi-annually or more frequently as needed.  

To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions’ Special Assets Group, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures.  

Separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups exist, which report to the Chief Credit Officer. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios.  

Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by line of business personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk-rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended.  

74  

Table of Contents 

Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio  

In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, it is appropriate to consider the current U.S. economic environment and that of Regions’ primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans.  

Economic Environment in Regions’ Banking Markets  

The largest factor influencing the credit performance of Regions’ loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The U.S. economy is in the midst of an official recession that began in December 2007. Overall output of goods and services is currently experiencing the sharpest decline since the early 1980s. Consumer spending, two-thirds of all recorded spending, has been hobbled by declining inflation-adjusted income, low additional credit capacity, historically high required monthly payments, a negative employment outlook and historically low consumer confidence. The business sector is struggling with weak domestic and foreign demand, and underutilized operating capacity.  

As 2008 evolved, the outlook shifted rapidly from general concern about inflation to general concern about deflation. The latter, if sustained, can lead to continuing declines in overall demand, and a deepening, prolonged recession. However, current and pending additional monetary and fiscal policy packages could prevent a period of sustained deflation.  

Housing continued to weaken considerably throughout 2008 and the risk of a deepening recession is significantly increasing due to the negative impact housing is having on the overall economy. Within the Regions footprint, the housing slowdown has been modest in some areas and severe in Florida and selected other geographical areas, including Atlanta, Georgia. Florida has experienced above-average price increases and construction activity in recent years. The slowdown is evident in many areas, including steeply declining sales and prices, and high levels of excess unsold inventory on the market. Management anticipates that the housing industry will remain weak throughout 2009. Housing-related issues have been exacerbated by a sharp increase in unemployment across Regions’ footprint, particularly in Florida.  

Portfolio Characteristics  

Regions has a well-diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2008, commercial and industrial loans represented 24 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, commercial real estate loans represented 27 percent, construction loans were 11 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 16 percent and consumer loans, largely home equity lending, comprised the remaining 22 percent.  

Commercial and Industrial—The commercial and industrial loan portfolio totaled $23.6 billion at year-end 2008 and primarily consists of loans to middle market commercial customers doing business in Regions’ geographic footprint. Loans in this portfolio are generally underwritten individually and usually secured with the assets of the company and/or the personal guarantee of the business owners. Net charge-offs on commercial and industrial loans were 0.92 percent of average commercial loans in 2008 compared to 0.33 percent in 2007. Regions expects that losses on these types of loans will continue to be at elevated levels during 2009.  

Commercial Real Estate—The commercial real estate portfolio totaled $26.2 billion at year-end 2008 and includes various loan types. A large portion is owner-occupied loans to businesses for long-term financing of land and buildings. These loans are generally underwritten and managed in the commercial business line. Regions attempts to minimize risk on owner-occupied properties by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount, adequate cash flow to service the debt, and, in many cases, the personal guarantees of principals of the borrowers.  

Another large component of commercial real estate loans is loans to real estate developers and investors for the financing of land or buildings, where the repayment is generated from the sale of the real estate or income   

75  

Table of Contents 

 generated by the real estate property. Net charge-offs on commercial real estate loans rose substantially, from 0.15 percent in 2007 to 1.52 percent in 2008 in reaction to the dramatic slowdown in demand for real estate properties and an associated drop in property valuations. Losses on sales or transfers to held for sale of non-performing commercial real estate loans also contributed to the year-over-year increase in net charge-offs. In addition, the implications of a recession further pressured borrowers and contributed to higher losses. Regions expects that losses on these types of loans will continue to be at elevated levels during 2009.  

Construction—Construction loans are primarily extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A construction loan may also be made to a commercial business for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is usually derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower (e.g., the sale or refinance of completed properties). These loans are generally underwritten and managed by a specialized real estate group that also manages loan disbursements during the construction process. As of December 31, 2008, real estate construction loans were $10.6 billion. Most construction credits were to finance shopping centers, apartment complexes, condominiums, commercial buildings and residential property development. Overall losses in the construction portfolio increased to 4.67 percent in 2008 as compared to 0.22 percent in 2007. The 2008 loss rate reflects the Company’s aggressive efforts to dispose of non-performing loans within the construction portfolio.  

Included in the construction loan category are loans to residential homebuilders. The chart and table that follow provide details related to this residential homebuilder portfolio, which totaled $4.4 billion at December 31, 2008. Further details about this portfolio are also provided in the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section, found earlier in this report. Credit quality of the construction portfolio is sensitive to risks associated with construction loans such as cost overruns, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, environmental and other hazard risks, and market risks associated with the sale or rental of completed properties. While losses within this portfolio were influenced by stresses described previously above, the most significant driver of losses was the severe decline in demand for residential real estate. Portfolio stresses are expected to continue throughout 2009 and, accordingly, losses on real estate construction loans are expected to continue at elevated levels.  

76  

Table of Contents 

RESIDENTIAL HOMEBUILDER PORTFOLIO (In millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 1 Central consists of Alabama, Georgia, and South Carolina  

 2 Midsouth consists of North Carolina, Virginia and Tennessee  

 3 Midwest consists of Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Missouri, and Texas  

 4 Southwest consists of Louisiana and Mississippi  

Residential First Mortgage—The residential first mortgage portfolio contains one-to-four family residential properties, which are secured principally by single-family residences. Loans of this type are generally smaller in size and are geographically dispersed throughout Regions’ market areas, with some guaranteed by government agencies or private mortgage insurers. Losses on the residential loan portfolio depend, to a large degree, on the level of interest rates, the unemployment rate, economic conditions and collateral values. During 2008, losses on single-family residences totaled 0.50 percent, 38 basis points higher than in the previous year, primarily driven by declining property values and other influential economic factors, such as the unemployment rate, which deteriorated substantially as the year progressed. Deterioration of the Company’s residential first mortgage portfolio was most apparent in Florida, where property valuations declined significantly and unemployment rose at a rapid pace. Regions expects losses on loans of this type to continue to increase during 2009, further driven by continued rising unemployment and the continued housing slowdown throughout the U.S., including areas within Regions’ operating footprint.   

Home Equity—This portfolio contains home equity loans and lines of credit totaling $16.1 billion as of year-end 2008. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. As a percentage of outstanding home equity loans and lines, losses increased in 2008 to 1.46 percent from 0.27 percent in 2007. The deteriorating economic environment as described above, particularly with respect to housing, caused the significant increase in loss rate. Florida real estate markets have been particularly affected. Slightly more than one-third of Regions’ home equity portfolio is located in Florida and has suffered losses reflective of the falling property values and demand in that geography.  

Regions has been proactive in its management of its home equity and residential first mortgage portfolios, focusing heavily on loss mitigation efforts, including providing comprehensive workout solutions to borrowers. Evidence of these efforts is reflected in the balance of these lines and loans classified as troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”), which grew substantially in 2008. See Note 6 “Loans” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. While the Company believes these efforts are having a beneficial effect, it also expects home equity losses to remain at elevated levels in 2009 as slowing economic conditions and continued anticipated pressure on home values are expected to continue to impact borrowers.  

77  

Table of Contents 

The chart below provides details related to the home equity lending portfolio for the year-ended 2008.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Net charge-off percentages are calculated as a percent of average balances.  

Indirect and Other Consumer Lending—Loans within the indirect portfolio, which consist mainly of automobile, marine and recreational vehicle loans originated through third-party business relationships, totaled $3.9 billion as of year-end 2008. Other consumer loans, which consist primarily of borrowings for home improvements, student loans, automobiles, overdrafts and other personal household purposes, totaled $1.2 billion as of year end. During the fourth quarter of 2008, Regions ceased originating automobile loans through the retail indirect lending channel. Therefore, loans in this category will begin to decline during 2009.  

Losses on indirect and other consumer lending increased in 2008 due to deterioration of general economic conditions, including rising unemployment rates, falling home values and rising gasoline costs. These portfolios will continue to be impacted by rising unemployment, among other factors, which Regions believes will remain elevated in 2009. The Company expects losses to increase during 2009 because of these factors.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses represents management’s estimate of credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of year-end. The allowance for credit losses consists of two components: the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. Management’s assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on a combination of both of these components. Regions determines its allowance for credit losses in accordance with regulatory guidance, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114, “Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan” (“FAS 114”) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” (“FAS 5”). Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments.  

At December 31, 2008, the allowance for credit losses totaled $1.9 billion or 1.95 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.4 billion or 1.45 percent at year-end 2007. The increase in the allowance for credit loss ratio reflects management’s estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which management believes increased during 2008 due to a slowing economy and a weakening housing market. The increase in non-performing assets, driven largely by residential homebuilder and condominium loans, was a key determining dynamic in the assessment of inherent losses and, as a result, was an important factor in determining the allowance level. Deterioration of the Company’s home equity and residential first mortgage portfolios, especially Florida-based credits, was also a factor. Non-performing assets increased from $864.1 million at December 31, 2007 to $1.7 billion at December 31, 2008. Excluding loans held for sale, non-performing assets increased $430.7 million to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2008.  

Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans were 1.59 percent and 0.29 percent in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The majority of the year-over-year increase in net charge-offs relates to the residential homebuilder portfolio, which is discussed earlier in this report, and the disposition of non-performing loans. During 2008, a total of $1.3 billion in non-performing loans were sold or designated as held for sale with associated charge-offs of approximately $639.0 million.  

Net charge-offs on home equity credits were also a driver of the increase, rising to 1.46 percent in 2008 versus 0.27 percent in 2007. Losses from Florida-based credits were particularly high, as property valuations in certain markets continued to experience ongoing deterioration. These loans and lines represent approximately $5.8 billion of Regions’ total home equity portfolio at December 31, 2008. Of that balance, approximately $2.1 billion represents first liens; second liens, which total $3.7 billion, were the main source of losses. Florida second lien losses were 3.67 percent in 2008. Total home equity losses in Florida amounted to 2.83 percent of loans and lines versus 0.73 percent across the remainder of Regions’ footprint.  

78  

Table of Contents 

The Company has taken a number of measures to aggressively manage the portfolios and mitigate losses, particularly in the more problematic portfolios, including the residential homebuilder portfolio, a subset of the commercial real estate and construction loan portfolios. Significant action in the management of the home equity portfolio has also been taken. A home equity portfolio evaluation was completed during 2008, which provided detailed property level information to assist in workout strategies. Also, the Company has a strong Customer Assistance Program in place, designed to educate customers about their loans and, as necessary, discuss options and solutions.  

As a result of the unfavorable trends in credit quality previously described, including the expectation of a challenging economy and rising non-performing asset levels driven largely by deterioration in the Company’s residential homebuilder and condominium portfolios, management expects that net loan charge-offs will continue at an elevated level during the year ended December 31, 2009.  

Reflecting the difficult credit environment as described above, the provision for loan losses rose significantly during 2008, totaling $2.1 billion, as compared to $555.0 million in the previous year.  

Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s total, are included in Table 22 “Allowance for Credit Losses.” Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. Also, refer to Table 23 “Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses” for details pertaining to management’s allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category.  

Allowance Process  

Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: (1) detailed reviews of individual loans; (2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge-offs for the various portfolio segments evaluated; (3) the Company’s policies relating to delinquent loans and charge-offs; (4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; (5) levels and trends in non-performing and past due loans; (6) collateral values of properties securing loans; (7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; and (8) management’s analysis of current economic conditions.  

Various departments, including Credit Review, Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management, Collections, and Special Assets are involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits.  

For the majority of the loan portfolio, management uses information from its ongoing review processes to stratify the loan portfolio into pools sharing common risk characteristics. Loans that share common risk characteristics are assigned a portion of the allowance for credit losses based on the assessment process described above. Credit exposures are categorized by type and assigned estimated amounts of inherent loss based on several factors, including current and historical loss experience for each pool and management’s judgment of current economic conditions and their expected impact on credit performance.  

Loans deemed to be impaired include non-accrual loans, excluding consumer loans, and TDRs. Impaired loans, excluding consumer loans, with outstanding balances greater than $2.5 million are evaluated individually. For these loans, Regions measures the level of impairment based on the present value of the estimated projected cash flows, the estimated value of the collateral or, if available, the observable market price. For consumer TDRs, Regions measures the level of impairment based on pools of loans stratified by common risk characteristics. If current valuations are lower than the current book balance of the credit, the negative differences are reviewed for possible charge-off. In instances where management determines that a charge-off is   

79  

Table of Contents 

 not appropriate, a FAS 114 Specific Reserve is established for the individual loan in question. That Specific Reserve is incorporated as a part of the overall allowance for credit losses. The recorded investment in impaired loans was $1,421.1 million at December 31, 2008 and $660.4 million at December 31, 2007. The allowance allocated to impaired loans, excluding TDRs, totaled $129.8 million and $103.9 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Loans that were characterized as TDRs totaled $532.7 million and $11.0 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and the allowance allocated to TDRs at December 31, 2008 and 2007 totaled $9.3 million and zero, respectively. The average amount of impaired loans was $1,262.2 million during 2008 and $396.0 million during 2007. No material amount of interest income was recognized on impaired loans for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

Management considers the current level of allowance for credit losses adequate to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and unfunded commitments. Management’s determination of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses, which is based on the factors and risk identification procedures previously discussed, requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the adequacy of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance for credit losses to be increased or decreased in future periods. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates.  

80  

Table of Contents 

Table 22—Allowance for Credit Losses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Breakout of residential first mortgage not available for 2005 and 2004 due to the AmSouth merger; residential first mortgage is included in commercial real estate for 2005 and 2004.  

 (2) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Regions transferred the portion of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded credit commitments to other liabilities.  

81  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase between 2007 and 2008 in the allowance for loan losses related primarily to the commercial and industrial, commercial real estate and construction portfolios. Drivers of the increase include higher year-end 2008 loan outstandings in the commercial and industrial and commercial real estate sectors, combined with higher reserve allocation rates for all three loan portfolios. The higher allocation rates are reflective of increased loan losses and adverse quality migration within the portfolio, both of which resulted primarily from the economic recession and the prolonged housing slump.  

The increased allowance for consumer products relates primarily to home equity lending, where year-to-year outstandings have increased and a higher reserve allocation rate has been applied. The increased allocation rate is reflective of increased loan losses and deteriorating delinquency trends which have been caused by deterioration in the housing markets, falling home equity values, and rising unemployment.  

82  

Table of Contents 

NON-PERFORMING ASSETS  

Non-performing assets consists of loans on non-accrual status and foreclosed properties. Loans are placed on non-accrual status when management has determined that payment of all contractual principal and interest is in doubt, or the loan is past due 90 days or more as to principal and interest unless well-secured and in the process of collection. Uncollected interest income accrued on non-accrual loans in the current year is reversed and charged to interest income. Uncollected interest accrued from prior years on loans placed on non-accrual status in the current year is charged against the allowance for loan losses.  

At December 31, 2008, non-performing assets totaled $1.7 billion, or 1.76 percent of ending loans, compared to $864.1 million, or 0.90 percent of loans, at December 31, 2007. Non-performing assets, excluding loans held for sale, increased $430.7 million to $1.3 billion, or 1.33 percent, compared to $864.1 million, or 0.90 percent in 2007. The increase in non-performing assets during the year ended December 31, 2008 was primarily driven by construction and commercial real estate loans, including the residential homebuilder portfolio, due to the widespread decline in residential property values. Of the $4.4 billion residential homebuilder portfolio, approximately $296.2 million was on non-accrual status as of December 31, 2008. During 2008, Regions disposed of or designated as held for sale approximately $1.6 billion of loans and foreclosed properties, partially offsetting the otherwise higher level of non-performing assets.  

Foreclosed properties, a subset of non-performing assets, totaled $264.6 million at December 31, 2008 and $120.5 million at December 31, 2007. Regions’ foreclosed properties are composed primarily of a number of small to medium-size properties that are diversified geographically throughout the franchise. Foreclosed properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan or fair value less the estimated cost to sell. Table 24 “Non-Performing Assets” presents information on non-performing loans and foreclosed properties acquired in settlement of loans.  

Changes in economic conditions and real estate demand in Regions’ markets are likely to keep the level of non-performing assets elevated during 2009.  

83  

Table of Contents 

Table 24—Non-Performing Assets  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Exclusive of accruing loans 90 days past due  

Note: Non-accrual loans and accruing loans 90 days past due by loan category are not available for periods prior to 2006.  

Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing totaled $554.4 million as of year-end 2008, an increase of $197.7 million from year-end 2007 levels, and reflected weaker economic conditions and general market deterioration. The increase was primarily due to increases in home equity and residential first mortgages, particularly in Florida, as well as commercial real estate loans being managed by the Special Assets Department and in the process of collection.  

Restructured loans at December 31, 2008, as disclosed above, were primarily comprised of $406.0 million of residential first mortgage loans and $47.8 million of home equity lines and loans with modified terms and/or rates. To address the growing needs of borrowers, as well as minimize losses, management instituted a Customer   

84  

Table of Contents 

 Assistance Program to help borrowers struggling with their mortgage payments and alerting them sooner about available options. Restructurings were primarily due to modification of rates below market and extensions of maturities.  

At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, Regions had approximately $812.6 million and $221.5 million, respectively, of potential problem commercial and commercial real estate loans that were not included in non-accrual loans or in the accruing loans 90 days past due categories, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. At December 31, 2008, $11.9 million of the $221.5 million from 2007 remained categorized as potential problem loans. The remaining loans either migrated to non-performing status or were no longer considered potential problem loans.  

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS   

Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions’ process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas; how those risks are controlled or mitigated; and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective. These monitoring procedures are also part of management’s testing of internal controls. At least quarterly, each area updates and assesses the adequacy of its documented internal controls. If changes are necessary, updates are made more frequently.  

Regions also has established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the SEC are generally designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  

Regions’ Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, operations and technology, as well as from the core business segments. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q, and Proxy filings, and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from all core business segments, accounting, legal, risk management, and operations and technology. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as evidence of the Company’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Forms 10-K and 10-Q are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.  

As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions’ periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary.  

85  

Table of Contents 

Regions’ common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and, therefore, Regions is required to comply with NYSE corporate governance listing standards. During 2008, Regions submitted to the NYSE the CEO certification required under Section 303A of the NYSE corporate governance listing standards. In addition, the CEO and CFO certifications that are required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 are filed as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2, respectively.  

COMPARISON OF 2007 WITH 2006  

Earnings in 2007 were affected by integration and merger-related charges related to the acquisition of AmSouth, which closed on November 4, 2006. Comparisons of 2007 to 2006 are therefore significantly impacted by the merger. Primary drivers of 2007 earnings, other than a full-year impact of the AmSouth merger, were Regions’ solid fee income, record performance at Morgan Keegan and overall expense control. However, certain valuation-related and other charges during the fourth quarter of 2007, as well as a higher provision for loan losses resulting from rapid deterioration of credit quality, contributed to lower earnings per share for 2007.  

Net income from continuing operations in 2007 was $1.4 billion, or $1.95 per diluted share, representing a 28 percent decrease from 2006 diluted earnings per share of $2.71. Not included in this amount, Regions incurred a $217.4 million pre-tax loss related to EquiFirst resulting in an after-tax net loss for the year of $142.1 million, which was accounted for as discontinued operations. Net income in 2007 includes after-tax merger charges of $217.5 million, or $0.31 per diluted share, compared to 2006 after-tax merger charges of $60.3 million, or $0.12 per diluted share. Return on average stockholders’ equity was 6.24 percent for 2007 as compared to 10.94 percent for 2006, while return on average assets was 0.90 percent for 2007, down from the 2006 level of 1.41 percent. Return on average tangible stockholders’ equity was 15.82 percent for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to 22.86 percent for the year ended December 31, 2006 (20.43 percent and 24.85 percent, respectively, excluding discontinued operations and merger charges). See Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for additional details and Table 1 “Financial Highlights” for additional ratios.  

Net interest income was $4.4 billion in 2007 compared to $3.3 billion in 2006. The increase was driven by a larger balance sheet for the full year, resulting from the merger with AmSouth in late 2006. However, negatively impacting net interest income was a lower net interest margin, which declined to 3.79 percent during 2007 compared to 4.17 percent in 2006. Primary drivers of the reduced net interest margin include the impact of integrating AmSouth’s balance sheet into Regions, a decline in low-cost deposit balances, and the negative effects of a lower tax-equivalent adjustment resulting from the first quarter 2007 adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN 48”).  

The following discussion of non-interest income and expense is from continuing operations and excludes EquiFirst, which is reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Non-interest income (excluding securities gains/losses) totaled $2.9 billion, or 39 percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable-equivalent basis) in 2007, compared to $2.0 billion, or 37 percent of total revenue (on a fully taxable-equivalent basis) in 2006, and continued to reflect Regions’ diversified revenue stream. Non-interest income increased due to the full-year inclusion of AmSouth’s operations.  

Service charges on deposit accounts increased 61 percent to $1.2 billion, due primarily to an increase in the number of total deposit accounts and the addition of new accounts in connection with the AmSouth merger. In addition to the increased number of accounts related to the merger, 2007 results were affected by the implementation of a tiered non-sufficient funds (“NSF”) pricing structure, as well as volume-related increases in NSF fees and interchange income.  

Brokerage, investment banking and capital markets income, and trust department income increased in 2007 to $894.6 million and $251.3 million, respectively, compared to $717.0 million and $158.2 million, respectively in 2006. Part of this increase is attributable to the AmSouth merger, as 2006 only included approximately two months of combined results compared to a full year for 2007. Merger benefits were realized mainly through an expanded customer base, primarily through additional Morgan Keegan offices opened in the former AmSouth   

86  

Table of Contents 

 retail branches. In addition, the increase was attributable to strong private client revenues, healthy fixed-income capital markets activity aided by the second quarter 2007 acquisition of Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC and higher trust and asset management fees.  

In 2007, mortgage income decreased 24 percent to $135.7 million compared to $178.7 million in 2006, primarily due to the increasingly challenging mortgage industry environment, which deteriorated as the year progressed.  

During the first quarter of 2007, Regions sold its non-conforming mortgage origination subsidiary, EquiFirst, for a sales price of approximately $76 million and recorded an after-tax gain of approximately $1 million. During the third quarter of 2007, Regions also exited the wholesale mortgage warehouse lending business as a result of risk and return considerations.  

Regions reported net losses of $8.6 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2007, compared to net gains of $8.1 million in 2006. The 2007 losses were primarily related to the sale of federal agency securities in conjunction with balance sheet management activities.  

Other income increased 71 percent to $420.0 million in 2007, primarily due to higher gains on sales of student loans and an increase in bank-owned life insurance income. Gains on the sale of loans increased in 2007 to $32.1 million compared to $0.7 million in 2006, reflecting a bulk sale of student loans and related servicing in early 2007. Bank-owned life insurance income increased $50.2 million due to the AmSouth acquisition and, to a lesser extent, the purchase of $896.6 million of additional life insurance late in 2007.  

Non-interest expense totaled $4.7 billion in 2007 compared to $3.2 billion in 2006. Included in non-interest expense are pre-tax merger-related charges of $350.9 million in 2007 and $88.7 million in 2006. The 2007 overall expense level was impacted due to the inclusion of a full twelve months of former AmSouth operations.  

Salaries and employee benefits increased 33 percent to $2.5 billion in 2007 compared to $1.9 billion in 2006, primarily due to the November 2006 addition of approximately 12,000 legacy AmSouth associates, as well as normal annual compensation adjustments and higher incentive payouts at Morgan Keegan. Excluding $158.6 million of pre-tax merger-related charges in 2007 and $65.7 million in 2006, salaries and benefits increased 29 percent in 2007. See Table 8 “Non-Interest Expense (including Non-GAAP reconciliation)” for further details.  

Net occupancy expense increased 62 percent to $413.7 million in 2007, primarily attributable to expenses added in connection with the AmSouth acquisition, new and acquired branch offices and rising price levels. Furniture and equipment expense in 2007 totaled $301.3 million, a 91 percent increase over the prior year. In addition to the higher merger-related expense base, furniture and equipment associated with the addition of new branch offices was also a factor.  

Other non-interest expense increased 58 percent to $1.5 billion in 2007 primarily due to a $54.8 million increase in professional fees related to higher consulting fees in connection with the merger integration, legal fees related to special assets litigation, a $63.9 million increase in marketing fees related to post-merger rebranding and branch conversion initiatives, a $51.5 million charge related to the Visa antitrust lawsuit settlement, and $38.5 million in losses related to investments in two Morgan Keegan mutual funds. Offsetting these costs, non-interest expenses were positively affected by the realization of merger cost savings, which continued to build throughout 2007.  

Regions’ provision for income taxes from continuing operations in 2007 increased $26.6 million to $645.7 million due to the full-year inclusion of AmSouth results and the adoption of FIN 48. As a result of the adoption of FIN 48, Regions recorded a cumulative reduction in equity of $259.0 million as of January 1, 2007. During 2007, the adoption of FIN 48 increased income tax expense and decreased after-tax net income by approximately $65 million. The effective tax rate from continuing operations was 31.7 percent in 2007 compared to 31.1 percent in 2006.  

87  

Table of Contents 

At December 31, 2007, non-performing assets totaled $864.1 million, or 0.90 percent of ending loans, compared to $379.1 million, or 0.40 percent of loans, at December 31, 2006. The increase in non-performing assets was largely influenced by growth in non-performing loans in the fourth quarter of 2007 due to weakness in the residential homebuilder portfolio. This pressure was due to a combination of declining residential demand and resulting price and collateral value declines in certain of the Company’s markets, particularly areas of Florida and Atlanta, Georgia.  

Net charge-offs totaled $270.5 million, or 0.29 percent of average loans, in 2007 compared to 0.22 percent in 2006. The increased loss rate resulted from deteriorating economic conditions during 2007, especially as related to the housing sector. The provision for loan losses from continuing operations increased $412.6 million to $555.0 million. Two primary factors led to the increase. Most notably, 2006 included just two months of provision for loan losses added to the portfolio as a result of the November 2006 merger with AmSouth, while the provision recorded in 2007 reflected the results of the newly merged Regions for the full year. In addition, the provision rose due to an increase in management’s estimate of inherent losses in its residential homebuilder portfolio. The allowance for credit losses increased $271.7 million to $1.4 billion or 1.45 percent of total loans in 2007, compared to $1.1 billion or 1.17 percent at year-end 2006. The increase in the allowance for credit losses was due to the general economic environment and the deteriorating credit conditions.  

88  

Table of Contents 

Table 25—Quarterly Results of Operations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Note: Quarterly amounts may not add to year-to-date amounts due to rounding.  

89  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data