Item 1A. Risk Factors   

Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by Regions, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks that may have a material adverse effect on Regions. Additional risks and uncertainties also could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our businesses, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, the market price for your securities could decline, and you could lose all or a part of your investment. Further, to the extent that any of the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause Regions’ actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of Regions.  

Our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by current conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.  

The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. As a consequence of the recession that the United States now finds itself in, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly.  

A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse effects on our businesses:  

   •    A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us;  

   •    A decrease in the value of our loans held for sale or other assets secured by consumer or commercial real estate;  

   •    An impairment of certain intangible assets, such as goodwill;  

   •    An increase in the number of clients and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses, and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until conditions improve, we expect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations to be adversely affected.  

Current market developments may adversely affect our industry, businesses and results of operations.  

Dramatic declines in the housing market during the prior year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant write-downs of asset values by us and other financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative securities, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers including financial institutions.  

This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Further negative market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provisions for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry.  

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.  

Since mid-2007, the financial services industry as a whole, as well as the securities markets generally, have been materially and adversely affected by very significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a very serious lack of liquidity. Financial institutions in particular have been subject to increased volatility and an overall loss in investor confidence.  

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations.  

There can be no assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and other recently enacted government programs will help stabilize the U.S. financial system.  

On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (the “EESA”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the U.S. Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and   

16  

Table of Contents 

 financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The U.S. Treasury and federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation and otherwise to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, including the CPP, in which Regions participated. In addition, other regulators have taken steps to attempt to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, such as the FDIC’s TLGP.  

On February 10, 2009, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner announced the Financial Stability Plan, which earmarks the second $350 billion originally authorized under the EESA. The Financial Stability Plan is intended to, among other things, make capital available to financial institutions, purchase certain legacy loans and assets from financial institutions, restart securitization markets for loans to consumers and businesses and relieve certain pressures on the housing market, including the reduction of mortgage payments and interest rates.  

In addition, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “ARRA”), which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes, among other things, extensive new restrictions on the compensation arrangements of financial institutions participating in TARP.  

There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA, as supplemented by the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA and other programs will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA, the Financial Stability Plan and other programs to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock.  

The EESA, ARRA and the Financial Stability Plan are relatively new initiatives and, as such, are subject to change and evolving interpretation. There can be no assurances as to the effects that any further changes will have on the effectiveness of the government’s efforts to stabalize the credit markets or on our businesses, financial condition or results of operations.  

The limitations on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA may adversely affect Regions’ ability to retain its highest performing employees.  

In the case of a company such as Regions that received CPP funds, the ARRA contains restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to the five executives named in a company’s proxy statement and the next twenty highest paid employees. Depending upon the limitations placed on incentive compensation by the final regulations issued under the ARRA, it is possible that Regions may be unable to create a compensation structure that permits Regions to retain its highest performing employees. If this were to occur, Regions’ businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  

We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could have an adverse impact on our operations.  

The banking industry is extensively regulated and supervised under both federal and state law. We are subject to the regulation and supervision of the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the Superintendent of Banking of the State of Alabama. These regulations are intended primarily to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC insurance fund, and not our shareholders. These regulations govern matters ranging from the regulation of certain debt obligations, changes in the control of bank holding companies and state-chartered banks, and the maintenance of adequate capital to the general business operations and financial condition of Regions Bank, including permissible types, amounts and terms of loans and investments, to the amount of reserves against deposits, restrictions on dividends, establishment of branch offices, and the maximum interest rate that may be charged by law. Additionally, certain subsidiaries of Regions and Regions Bank, such as Morgan Keegan, are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by other regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, FINRA and state securities and insurance regulators. We are subject to changes in federal and state law, as well as regulations and governmental policies, income tax laws and accounting principles. Regulations affecting banks and other   

17  

Table of Contents 

 financial institutions are undergoing continuous change, and the ultimate effect of such changes cannot be predicted. Regulations and laws may be modified at any time, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us, Regions Bank and our subsidiaries.  

Given the current disruption in the financial markets and regulatory initiatives that are likely to be proposed by the new administration and Congress, new regulations and laws that may affect us are increasingly likely. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Also, participation in specific programs may subject us to additional restrictions. We cannot assure you that such modifications or new laws will not adversely affect us. Our regulatory position is discussed in greater detail under Item 1. “Business—Supervision and Regulation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

In addition, Regions will be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.  

We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all.  

We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase our cost of funding and limit our access to some of our customary sources of capital, including, but not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve.  

We cannot assure you that such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers, depositors of Regions Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.  

We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments.  

We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banking and other subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders and principal and interest on our outstanding debt, is dividends from Regions Bank. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by Regions Bank to us, as well as by us to our stockholders. Regulations of both the Federal Reserve and the State of Alabama affect the ability of Regions Bank to pay dividends and other distributions to us and to make loans to us. Given the loss recorded at Regions Bank during the fourth quarter of 2008, under the Federal Reserve’s rules, Regions Bank does not expect to be able to pay dividends to us in the near term without first obtaining regulatory approval. If Regions Bank is unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient capital is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders or principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt. See “Supervision and Regulation—Payment of Dividends” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets.  

The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. On February 2, 2009, Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) downgraded our long-term senior debt from A2 to A3, and downgraded the ratings of certain of our subsidiaries, including Regions Bank. Moody’s downgraded its rating of Regions Bank’s financial strength from B- to C+ and its rating of Regions Bank’s long-term deposits from A1 to A2 and all of our debt and deposit ratings remain on negative outlook. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to further downgrades. Credit ratings measure a company’s ability to repay its obligations and directly affect the cost and availability to that company of unsecured financing. Further downgrades could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital.  

We may not pay dividends on your common stock.  

Holders of shares of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, participation in the CPP limits our ability to increase our dividend or to repurchase our common stock for so long as any securities issued under such program remain outstanding, as discussed in greater detail below.  

If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, our earnings may be adversely affected.  

As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our credit risk with respect to our real estate and construction loan portfolio will relate principally to the creditworthiness of corporations and the value of the real estate serving as security for the repayment of loans. Our credit risk with respect to our commercial and consumer loan portfolio will relate principally to the general creditworthiness of businesses and individuals within our local markets.  

We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for estimated credit losses based on a number of factors. We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, our allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual credit losses. We may have to increase our allowance in the future in response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses cannot be determined at this time and may vary from the amounts of past provisions.  

Further disruptions in the residential real estate market could adversely affect our performance.  

As of December 31, 2008, residential homebuilder loans, home equity loans secured by second liens in Florida and condominium loans represented approximately 9.3% of our total loan portfolio. These portions of our loan portfolio have been under stress for over a year and, due to weakening credit quality, we increased our loan loss provision and our total allowance for credit losses. In addition, we have implemented several measures to support the management of these portions of the loan portfolio, including reassignment of experienced, key relationship managers to focus on work-out strategies for distressed borrowers.  

While we expect that these actions will help mitigate the overall effects of the credit down cycle, the weakness in these portions of our loan portfolio is expected to continue well into 2009. Accordingly, it is anticipated that our non-performing asset and charge-off levels will remain elevated.  

19  

Table of Contents 

Further, the effects of recent mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing decrease in residential real estate market prices and demand, could result in further price reductions in home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the residential real estate and construction loans that we hold, as well as loan originations and gains on sale of real estate and construction loans. Specifically, a significant portion of our residential mortgages and commercial real estate loan portfolios are composed of borrowers in the Southeastern United States, in which certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. For example, prices of Florida properties remain under significant pressure, with rising unemployment levels and the impact of the real estate downturn on the general economy. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A decline in home values or overall economic weakness could also have an adverse impact upon the value of real estate or other assets which we own upon foreclosing a loan.  

Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in economic conditions in the areas where our operations or loans are concentrated.  

Our success depends to a certain extent on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets served by Regions Bank in the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on Regions Bank’s commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. Adverse changes in the economic conditions of these geographical areas for over a year have had a negative impact on the financial results of our banking operations and may continue to have a negative effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.  

We are exposed to intangible asset risk; specifically, our goodwill may become impaired.  

We have determined that a portion of our goodwill was impaired and recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $6.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, a further significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in further impairment of goodwill. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge, which could be materially adverse to our operating results and financial position. For further discussion, see Notes 1 and 10, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and “Intangible Assets”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Rapid and significant changes in market interest rates may adversely affect our performance.  

Most of our assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and subject us to significant risks from changes in interest rates. Our profitability depends to a large extent on our net interest income, and changes in interest rates can impact our net interest income as well as the valuation of our assets and liabilities.  

Our current one-year interest rate sensitivity position is asset sensitive, meaning that an immediate increase in interest rates would likely have a positive cumulative impact on Regions’ twelve-month net interest income. Alternatively, a gradual decrease in rates over a twelve-month period would likely have a negative impact on twelve-month net interest income. However, like most financial institutions, our results of operations are affected by changes in interest rates and our ability to manage interest rate risks. Changes in market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between short-term and long-term market interest rates, or changes in the relationships between different interest rate indices, can affect the interest rates charged on interest-earning assets differently than the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This difference could result in an increase in interest expense relative to interest income, or a decrease in our interest rate spread. For a more detailed discussion of these risks and our management strategies for these risks, see Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” and Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Our net interest margin depends on many factors that are partly or completely out of our control, including competition, federal economic monetary and fiscal policies, and general economic conditions. Despite our strategies to manage interest rate risks, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse impact on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.  

The performance of our investment portfolio is subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates and market conditions.  

Changes in interest rates can negatively affect the performance of most of our investments. Interest rate volatility can reduce unrealized gains or create unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, our investment securities.  

The fair market value of the securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities also fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. In addition, actual net investment income and/or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. See the “Securities” section of Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Hurricanes and other weather-related events could cause a disruption in our operations or other consequences that could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.  

A significant portion of our operations are located in the areas bordering the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, regions that are susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can cause disruption to our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our overall results of operations. We maintain hurricane insurance, including coverage for lost profits and extra expense; however, there is no insurance against the disruption to the markets that we serve that a catastrophic hurricane could produce. Further, a hurricane in any of our market areas could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to timely repay their loans and may adversely impact the value of any collateral held by us. Some of the states in which we operate have in recent years experienced extreme droughts. The effects of past or future hurricanes, droughts and other weather-related events are difficult to predict, but could have an adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations.  

Our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s CPP imposes restrictions and obligations on us that limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our common stock and access the equity capital markets.  

On November 14, 2008, we issued and sold preferred stock and a warrant to purchase our common stock to the U.S. Treasury as part of its CPP. Prior to November 14, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the preferred stock or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the agreement pursuant to which such securities were sold, among other things, limits the payment of dividends on our common stock to the current quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share without prior regulatory approval, limits our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards), and grants the holders of such securities certain registration rights which, in certain circumstances, impose lock-up periods during which we would be unable to issue equity securities. In addition, unless we are able to redeem the preferred stock during the first five years, the dividends on of this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% ($175 million annually) to 9% ($315 million annually). Depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our liquidity. See “Regulation and Supervision—U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program.”  

21  

Table of Contents 

The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate.  

The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Such risks may be affected by:  

   •    Operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors;  

   •    Developments in our businesses or in the financial sector generally;  

   •    Regulatory changes affecting our industry generally or our businesses and operations;  

   •    The operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us;  

   •    Announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us or our competitors;  

   •    Changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the markets for mortgage-related securities; and  

   •    Changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility.  

Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have, over the past year, and continue to be experiencing significant price and volume volatility. As a result, the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations that may be unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. Increased volatility could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock.  

Industry competition may have an adverse effect on our success.  

Our profitability depends on our ability to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive environment. Certain of our competitors are larger and have more resources than we do. In our market areas, we face competition from other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, internet banks, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial intermediaries that offer similar services. Some of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern Regions or Regions Bank and may have greater flexibility in competing for business. Regions expects competition to intensify among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. Should competition in the financial services industry intensify, Regions’ ability to market its products and services may be adversely affected.  

Changes in the policies of monetary authorities and other government action could adversely affect our profitability.  

The results of operations of Regions are affected by credit policies of monetary authorities, particularly the Federal Reserve. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve include open-market operations in U.S. government securities, changes in the discount rate or the federal funds rate on bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against bank deposits. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money markets, we cannot predict possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, and loan demand on our businesses and earnings. Furthermore, ongoing military operations in the Middle East or elsewhere around the world, including those in response to terrorist attacks, may result in currency fluctuations, exchange controls, market disruption and other adverse effects.  

Anti-takeover laws and certain agreements and charter provisions may adversely affect share value.  

Certain provisions of state and federal law and our certificate of incorporation may make it more difficult for someone to acquire control of us without our Board of Directors’ approval. Under federal law, subject to certain exemptions, a person, entity or group must notify the federal banking agencies before acquiring control of   

22  

Table of Contents 

 a bank holding company. Acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting stock of a bank holding company or state member bank, including shares of our common stock, creates a rebuttable presumption that the acquiror “controls” the bank holding company or state member bank. Also, as noted under “Supervision and Regulation—General,” a bank holding company must obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before, among other things, acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, including Regions Bank. There also are provisions in our certificate of incorporation that may be used to delay or block a takeover attempt. As a result, these statutory provisions and provisions in our certificate of incorporation could result in Regions being less attractive to a potential acquiror.  

Future issuances of additional securities could result in dilution of your ownership.  

We may determine from time to time to issue additional securities to raise additional capital, support growth, or to make acquisitions. Further, we may issue stock options or other stock grants to retain and motivate our employees. These issuances of our securities will dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders.  

We need to stay current on technological changes in order to compete and meet customer demands.  

The financial services market, including banking services, is undergoing rapid changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, on our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

None.  

 Item 2. Properties