Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts

OVERVIEW

Nordstrom is a leading fashion specialty retailer offering apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men, young adults and children. We offer an extensive selection of high-quality brand-name and private label merchandise through our various channels, including Nordstrom U.S. and Canada full-line stores, Nordstrom.com, Nordstrom Rack stores, Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook, Trunk Club clubhouses and TrunkClub.com, our Jeffrey boutiques and our Last Chance clearance store. As of January 30, 2016, our stores are located in 39 states throughout the United States and in three provinces in Canada. In addition, we offer our customers a Nordstrom Rewards™ loyalty program along with a variety of payment products and services, including credit and debit cards.

In 2015, we continued to grow our business despite a more challenging retail environment in the second half of the year. We added nearly $1 billion to our top line, delivering total net sales growth of 7.5% and a comparable sales increase of 2.7%. During the year, we achieved the following milestones in executing our customer strategy:

•opened our first international flagship store in Vancouver, British Columbia, the most successful opening in our Company history

•grew Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook by 47%, reaching over $500 in sales

•expanded our fulfillment network with our third fulfillment center in Elizabethtown, Pennsylvania, located within two-day delivery of approximately half the U.S. population

•returned $2.4 billion to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends, of which $1.8 billion resulted from the sale of our credit card receivables 

From a merchandising perspective, we’re constantly pursuing newness and fashion to increase our relevance with customers. Brands like Topshop, Madewell, Brandy Melville and Charlotte Tilbury have contributed to the strength of our younger customer-focused departments and attracted new customers to Nordstrom. Additionally, we saw continued momentum in Beauty, which has been among our top-performing categories for the fourth straight year.

On October 1st, we completed the sale of our credit card portfolio to TD. Our mutual commitment to having Nordstrom employees serve our customers directly was paramount to this partnership. We are able to retain all aspects of customer-facing activities, aligning with our strategy of enhancing the customer experience while allowing for improvement in capital efficiency. 

In addition, we consider our loyalty program as an enabler of growth to increase our engagement with customers and attract new customers. With sales to Rewards members representing 40% of our sales volume, we look forward to expanding our program with a tender-neutral offer in 2016.

Over the past several years, we’ve made significant investments to enable customers to shop seamlessly across stores and online as well as to grow our business through new markets. Our investments in HauteLook, Canada and Trunk Club added over $400 to our top-line growth in 2015, while Nordstrom Rack’s expansion of 27 new stores contributed nearly $230 to our top-line growth. These investments have resulted in market share gains, but also represent an evolution of our business resulting in expenses growing faster than sales in recent years. 

As we look ahead to 2016, we continue to view 2015 as our peak investment year. While we have successfully increased market share, we are also committed to increasing efficiency, lowering costs while increasing effectiveness and gaining profitability. With our investments moderating, we expect 2016 to represent an inflection point of earnings growth improvement.

As our business evolves, our focus continues to be guided by customer expectations around speed, convenience and personalization. We believe that we are well positioned with the right strategies in place to successfully serve our customers, which will in turn lead to long-term profitable growth and top-quartile total shareholder return.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  17
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our reportable segments are Retail and Credit. We analyze our results of operations through earnings before interest and income taxes for our Retail Business and Credit, while interest expense, income taxes, earnings per share and return on invested capital are discussed on a total Company basis.

RETAIL BUSINESS

Our Retail Business includes our Nordstrom-branded U.S. and Canada full-line stores and Nordstrom.com, Nordstrom Rack stores, Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook, Trunk Club, Jeffrey and our Last Chance clearance store. For purposes of discussion and analysis of our results of operations of our Retail Business, we combine our Retail segment results with revenues and expenses in the “Corporate/Other” column of Note 17: Segment Reporting in Item 8 (collectively, the “Retail Business”). 

Certain metrics we use to evaluate the Retail Business may not be calculated in a consistent manner among industry peers. Provided below are definitions of metrics we present within our analysis of the Retail Business: 

•Comparable Sales – sales from stores that have been open at least one full year at the beginning of the year. Total Company comparable sales include sales from our online channels (Nordstrom.com and Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook) because of the integration with our stores. 

•Gross Profit – net sales less cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs.

•Inventory Turnover Rate – annual cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments) divided by the trailing 4-quarter average inventory. 

•Total Sales Per Square Foot – net sales divided by weighted-average square footage. 

•4-wall Sales Per Square Foot – sales for Nordstrom U.S. and Canada full-line stores, Nordstrom Rack stores, Trunk Club clubhouses, Jeffrey boutiques and our Last Chance store divided by their weighted-average square footage.

Summary

The following table summarizes the results of our Retail Business for the past three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Subtotals and totals may not foot due to rounding. 

18
Retail Business Net Sales

In our ongoing effort to enhance the customer experience, we are focused on providing customers with a seamless experience across our channels. While our customers may engage with us through multiple channels, we know they value the overall Nordstrom brand experience and view us simply as Nordstrom, which is ultimately how we view our business. To provide additional transparency into our net sales by channel, we present the following information for our Retail Business:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Other retail includes Nordstrom Canada full-line stores, Trunk Club and Jeffrey boutiques.

Net Sales (2015 vs. 2014)

In 2015, total Company net sales increased 7.5%, while comparable sales increased 2.7%. During the year, we opened five Nordstrom full-line stores, including two in Canada, and 27 Nordstrom Rack stores. These additions increased our square footage by 6.4% and represented 2.8% of our total net sales for 2015. 

Our full-price net sales, which consist of the U.S. full-line and Nordstrom.com channels, increased 2.6% compared with 2014, with comparable sales up 2.3%. These increases reflected continued momentum in our Nordstrom.com channel, which increased 15%, while U.S. full-line store net sales decreased 0.6% in 2015 compared with 2014. On a comparable basis, we experienced an increased volume of transactions partially offset by a decrease in the average number of items sold per transaction. Category leaders included Beauty and Women’s Apparel.

U.S. full-line store comparable sales decreased by 1.1%. The Northwest and Southwest were the top-performing full-line geographic regions. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  19
Within our off-price offering, Nordstrom Rack net sales increased 9.9%, compared with 2014, reflecting the accelerated expansion of new stores. Comparable sales decreased 1.0% for the year. Shoes and Cosmetics were the top-performing categories, while the South was the top-performing geographic region. Nordstrom Rack experienced an increase in the average retail price per item sold offset by a decrease in the total number of items sold. Sales per square foot of Nordstrom Rack decreased due to store expansion. 

Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook experienced outsized growth, with a net sales increase of 47%.

Net Sales (2014 vs. 2013)

Total Company net sales for 2014 increased 7.8% compared with 2013, which was attributable to a comparable sales increase of 4.0%. During 2014, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores, including our first store in Canada, 27 Nordstrom Rack stores and acquired Trunk Club. These additions represented 2.8% of our total net sales for 2014 and increased our square footage by 5.5%.

Full-price net sales for 2014 increased 3.8% compared with 2013, with comparable sales up 3.6%. These increases were largely due to the performance of our Nordstrom.com channel. Both the number of items sold and the average selling price increased on a comparable basis in 2014 compared with 2013. Category leaders included Accessories, Cosmetics and Men’s Apparel. 

U.S. full-line store net sales for 2014 decreased 0.3% compared with 2013, which was primarily driven by a decrease in comparable sales. The top-performing geographic regions for 2014 were the Southeast and Southwest. 

Our Nordstrom.com and Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook channels experienced outsized growth, with a net sales increase of 23% at Nordstrom.com and 22% at Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook compared with 2013. These increases were driven by both expanded merchandise selection and ongoing technology investments to enhance the customer experience.

Nordstrom Rack net sales increased 17% compared with 2013, reflecting incremental volume from existing stores and the impact of new store openings. On a comparable basis, the average selling price of Nordstrom Rack merchandise increased while the number of items sold was flat. Shoes and Accessories were the strongest-performing categories for 2014.

Retail Business Gross Profit

The following table summarizes the Retail Business gross profit:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross Profit (2015 vs. 2014)

Our Retail gross profit rate decreased 92 basis points compared with 2014 primarily due to higher cost of sales driven by increased markdowns from lower than planned sales and in response to an elevated promotional environment during the second half of the year. Retail gross profit increased $225 in 2015 due to an increase in net sales, partially offset by increased markdowns. 

Our inventory turnover rate decreased to 4.54 in 2015, from 4.67 in 2014, due to softer sales trends experienced during the second half of the year. Our ending inventory per square foot increased 6.1% in 2015, which outpaced our sales per square foot increase of 2.9%. As we continue to grow our online channels, we expect increases in inventory without corresponding increases in square footage. 

Gross Profit (2014 vs. 2013)

Our Retail gross profit rate decreased 52 basis points compared with 2013 primarily due to increased markdowns and Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion. Retail gross profit increased $275 in 2014 compared with 2013 due to an increase in net sales, partially offset by increased markdowns.

Our inventory turnover rate decreased in 2014 and our ending inventory per square foot increased 8.8%. This increase in ending inventory per square foot outpaced our increase in sales per square foot of 3.9% primarily due to planned inventory growth related to Nordstrom Rack and Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook. 

Retail Business Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Retail Business selling, general and administrative expenses (“Retail SG&A”) are summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

20
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (2015 vs. 2014)

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 112 basis points in 2015 compared with 2014 due to growth initiatives related to Trunk Club and Canada, higher fulfillment costs supporting online growth and asset impairment charges (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8). Our Retail SG&A increased $428 in 2015 due primarily to increased sales and growth initiatives related to Canada and Trunk Club. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (2014 vs. 2013) 

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 48 basis points in 2014 compared with 2013 due to expenses related to the acquisition of Trunk Club and ongoing fulfillment and technology investments. Our Retail SG&A expenses increased $316 in 2014 compared with 2013 due primarily to growth-related investments in fulfillment and technology.

CREDIT SEGMENT

The Nordstrom credit and debit card products are designed to strengthen customer relationships and grow retail sales by providing loyalty benefits, valuable services and payment products. We believe our credit business allows us to build deeper relationships with our customers by fully integrating the Nordstrom Rewards program with our retail stores and providing better service, which in turn fosters greater customer loyalty. Nordstrom cardholders tend to visit our stores more frequently and spend more with us than non-cardholders. Nordstrom private label credit and debit cards can be used only at our Nordstrom full-line stores in the U.S., Nordstrom Rack stores and online at Nordstrom.com and Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook (“inside volume”), while Nordstrom Visa credit cards also may be used for purchases outside of Nordstrom (“outside volume”). Cardholders participate in the Nordstrom Rewards program through which cardholders accumulate points based on their level of spending. Upon reaching a certain points threshold, cardholders receive Nordstrom Notes®, which can be redeemed for goods or services at Nordstrom full-line stores in the U.S. and Canada, Nordstrom Rack stores and at Nordstrom.com. Nordstrom Rewards customers receive reimbursements for alterations, get Personal Triple Points days and have early access to sales events. With increased spending, they can receive additional amounts of these benefits as well as access to exclusive fashion and shopping events.

On October 1, 2015, we completed the sale of a substantial majority of our U.S. Visa and private label credit card portfolio to TD (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8).

Summary

The table below provides a detailed view of the operational results of our Credit segment, consistent with Note 17: Segment Reporting in Item 8. In order to better reflect the economic contribution of our credit and debit card program, intercompany merchant fees are also included in the table below, which represent the estimated costs that would be incurred if cardholders used non-Nordstrom-branded cards instead of our cards in store and online.

Prior to October 1, 2015, interest expense at the Credit segment was equal to the amount of interest related to securitized debt plus an amount assigned to the Credit segment in proportion to the estimated debt and equity needed to fund our credit card receivables. Based on our research, debt as a percentage of credit card receivables for other credit card companies ranges from 70% to 90%. As such, we considered a mix of 80% debt and 20% equity to be appropriate, and therefore assigned interest expense to the Credit segment as if it carried debt of up to 80% of the credit card receivables. Subsequent to the sale, we no longer allocate interest expense to the Credit segment as we do not fund the accounts receivable now owned by TD.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Volume represents sales plus applicable taxes.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  21
Credit Card Revenues, net

The following is a summary of our credit card revenues, net:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Prior to the close of the credit card receivable transaction, credit card revenues included finance charges, interchange fees, late fees and other revenue, recorded net of estimated uncollectible finance charges and fees. Finance charges represent interest earned on unpaid balances while interchange fees are earned from the use of Nordstrom Visa credit cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom. Late fees are assessed when a credit card account becomes past due. We continue to recognize revenue in this manner for the credit card receivables retained subsequent to the close of the credit card receivable transaction.

Following the close of the transaction and pursuant to the program agreement with TD, we receive our portion of the ongoing credit card revenue, net of credit losses, from both the sold and newly generated credit card receivables, which is recorded in credit program revenues, net. Revenue earned under the program agreement is impacted by the credit quality of receivables, both owned and serviced, and factors such as deteriorating economic conditions, declining creditworthiness of cardholders and the success of account management and collection activities may heighten the risk of credit losses. 

Asset amortization and deferred revenue recognition associated with the assets and liabilities recorded as part of the transaction are also recorded in credit program revenues, net.

Credit Card Revenues, net (2015 vs. 2014)

Credit card revenues, net decreased $54 in 2015 compared with 2014 due to the credit card receivable transaction.

Credit Card Revenues, net (2014 vs. 2013)

Credit card revenues, net increased $22 in 2014 compared with 2013 primarily due to an increase in the average accounts receivable balance, slightly decreased payment rates and a 6.5% increase in total volume during 2014.

Credit Expenses

Credit expenses are summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Expenses (2015 vs. 2014)

Total credit expenses decreased $35 in 2015 compared with 2014, primarily due to the reversal of our allowance for credit losses, partially offset by costs related to the credit card receivable transaction, recorded in credit transaction, net.

Credit Expenses (2014 vs. 2013)

Total credit expenses increased $8 in 2014 compared with 2013, due to higher operational expenses resulting from increased volume in 2014 and lower operational expenses in 2013 from the conversion of our Nordstrom Rewards travel benefits into Nordstrom Notes during that year. 

22
Allowance for Credit Losses and Credit Trends

A substantial majority of our receivables were reclassified as “held for sale” during the second quarter of 2015, and resulted in the reversal of the allowance for credit losses of $64 on those receivables. 

For our owned credit card receivables, we consider a credit card account delinquent if the minimum payment is not received by the payment due date. Our aging method is based on the number of completed billing cycles during which the customer failed to make a minimum payment. During the third quarter of 2014, we modified our write-off policy from 150 days past due to 180 days past due to better align with industry practice.

Activity in the allowance for credit losses is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Trends

Net write-offs in 2015 were $36, compared with $46 in 2014 and $57 in 2013. Net write-offs decreased in 2015 from 2014 due to the credit card receivable transaction. In 2015 and 2014, we reduced our allowance for credit losses as delinquencies and net write-offs improved.

Intercompany Merchant Fees

Intercompany merchant fees represent the estimated costs that would be incurred if Nordstrom cardholders used non-Nordstrom-branded cards in our stores and online. In 2015, this estimate increased to $118 from $108 in 2014. This was primarily driven by the increased use of Nordstrom credit and debit cards in store and online.

TOTAL COMPANY RESULTS

Interest Expense, Net

Interest expense is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Expense, Net (2015 vs. 2014)

Interest expense, net decreased $13 in 2015 compared with 2014 due to an increase in capitalized interest resulting from planned capital investments related to technology, our Manhattan store and Nordstrom Rack and Canada store openings in 2015.

Interest Expense, Net (2014 vs. 2013)

Interest expense, net decreased $23 in 2014 compared with 2013 due to a non-recurring charge of $14 in 2013 related to our debt refinancing, as well as lower average interest rates on our notes in 2014 driven by our fourth quarter 2013 debt transactions.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table illustrates the components of our effective tax rate:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Tax Expense (2015 vs. 2014)

The decrease in the effective tax rate for 2015 compared with 2014 was primarily due to a decrease in non-deductible acquisition-related items and the benefit of income tax credits in 2015.

Income Tax Expense (2014 vs. 2013)

The increase in the effective tax rate for 2014 compared with 2013 was primarily due to tax adjustments associated with a reassessment of our deferred tax assets related to acquisitions.

Earnings Per Share

Earnings per share is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Earnings Per Diluted Share (2015 vs. 2014)

The decrease in diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) for 2015 compared with 2014 was primarily due to lower Retail Business earnings before interest and income taxes. This decrease was partially offset by a decrease in weighted average shares outstanding resulting from an increase in share repurchases.

Earnings Per Diluted Share (2014 vs. 2013)

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  23
The slight increase in EPS for 2014 compared with 2013 is primarily due to a decrease in weighted average shares outstanding from increased share repurchase activity.

Fourth Quarter Results 

The following are our results for the fourth quarters of 2015 and 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2015 were $180, or $1.00 per diluted share, compared with $255, or $1.32 per diluted share, in 2014. 

Net Sales

Total net sales increased in the fourth quarter by 5.2%, driven by a comparable sales increase of 1.0% and sales from 32 new stores opened in 2015.

24
Nordstrom net sales, which consist of U.S. full-line stores and Nordstrom.com, increased $21, or 0.7%, compared with 2014, while comparable sales increased 0.2%. These increases were primarily driven by an increase from Nordstrom.com of $77, or 11%, while U.S. full-line net sales for the quarter decreased $56, or 2.5%. On a comparable basis, we experienced an increased volume of transactions partially offset by a decrease in the average number of items sold per transaction. Category leaders for the quarter were Beauty and Shoes. 

U.S. full-line comparable sales for the quarter decreased 3.2%. Southern California was the top-performing U.S. full-line geographic region. 

Nordstrom Rack net sales increased $61, or 7%, primarily driven by 27 Nordstrom Rack new store openings since the fourth quarter of 2014, while comparable sales decreased 3.0%. On a comparable basis, the average retail price per item sold increased, partially offset by a decrease in the total number of items sold. Shoes and Cosmetics were the category leaders, while the South was the top-performing geographic region.

Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook experienced outsized growth, with a net sales increase of $57, or 50%, compared with the same period in 2014.

Credit Card Revenues, net

Credit card revenues, net decreased $54 for the quarter, compared with the same period in the prior year, primarily due to the impact of the program agreement with TD (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8) and amortization of the beneficial interest asset recorded as part of the credit card receivable transaction.

Gross Profit

Our total Company gross profit rate decreased 184 basis points compared with the same period in the prior year, primarily due to increased markdowns from lower than planned sales and in response to an elevated promotional environment during the holiday season.

Retail Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 120 basis points primarily due to asset impairment charges related to our full-line store in San Juan, Puerto Rico, in addition to other retail and technology assets (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8), and higher fulfillment costs supporting online growth.

Credit Expenses

In the fourth quarter of 2015, total credit expenses decreased $18 compared with the fourth quarter of 2014, primarily driven by decreases in bad debt expense as a result of the credit card receivable transaction (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). 

For further information on our quarterly results in 2015 and 2014, refer to Note 18: Selected Quarterly Data in Item 8.

2016 Outlook

Our expectations for 2016 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Excluding impairment charges of $59 million in 2015, Retail EBIT is expected to have a decrease of 3 percent to an increase of 3 percent relative to last year. 

In the first half of fiscal 2016, the Company expects earnings per diluted share to decrease by approximately 30% relative to the same period last year due to the impact of the sale of the credit card receivables, growth initiatives and the shift of the Anniversary Sale event from the second quarter in 2015 to the second and third quarters in 2016.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  25
Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) (Non-GAAP financial measure)

We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital and believe ROIC is an important component of shareholders’ return over the long term. In addition, we incorporate ROIC in our executive incentive compensation measures. For the 12 fiscal months ended January 30, 2016, our ROIC decreased to 10.7% compared with 12.6% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 31, 2015. This decrease reflected reduced earnings in addition to increased investments supporting growth initiatives.

We define ROIC as our net operating profit after tax divided by our average invested capital using the trailing 12-month average. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, return on assets, net earnings, total assets or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to ROIC is return on assets. The following is a reconciliation of the components of ROIC and return on assets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease or we had purchased the property. Asset base is calculated as described in footnote 2 below.

2 Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base. The asset base for each month is calculated as the trailing 12 months of rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the asset base we would record for our capitalized operating leases described in footnote 1.

26
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We strive to maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to maintain appropriate levels of short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows, available credit facilities and potential future borrowings are sufficient to finance our cash requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain our financial position, manage refinancing risk and allow flexibility for strategic initiatives. We regularly assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and other future investments. We believe that as of January 30, 2016, our existing cash and cash equivalents on-hand of $595, available credit facilities of $800 and potential future operating cash flows and borrowings will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives. 

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $2,451 in 2015, $1,220 in 2014 and $1,320 in 2013. The majority of our operating cash inflows are derived from sales. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our merchandise vendors (net of vendor allowances), payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short-term and long-term borrowings.

Cash provided by operating activities increased by $1,231 between 2015 and 2014, primarily due to $1,297 of net proceeds from the sale of our credit card receivables (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). Also within operating activities, deferred income taxes, net and prepaid expenses and other assets were impacted by a change in an IRS rule regarding repairs of real property.

Cash provided by operating activities decreased in 2014 compared with 2013, which was primarily due to higher state tax payments made in 2014 compared with 2013, as well as changes in working capital in 2014.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $144 in 2015, $889 in 2014 and $822 in 2013. The decrease in cash used in 2015 compared with 2014 is primarily due to $890 of net proceeds from the sale of our credit card receivables originated at third parties. 

Capital Expenditures

Our capital expenditures over the last three years totaled $2,746, with $1,082 in 2015, $861 in 2014 and $803 in 2013. Capital expenditures increased year over year primarily due to ongoing store expansion and increased technology investments.

The following table summarizes our store count and square footage activity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Other includes Trunk Club clubhouses, Jeffrey boutiques and our Last Chance store.

We had one store relocation in 2015, compared with no relocations in 2014 and three relocations in 2013. Our 2015 new store openings increased our square footage by 6.4%.

To date in 2016, we have opened three Nordstrom Rack stores and plan to open an additional 18 Nordstrom Rack stores, two full-line stores in Canada and one full-line store in the U.S. during the remainder of 2016. Planned net store openings are expected to increase our retail square footage by approximately 4%.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  27
We received property incentives from our developers of $156 in 2015, $110 in 2014 and $89 in 2013. These incentives are included in our cash provided by operations in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8. However, operationally we view these as an offset to our capital expenditures. Our capital expenditure percentages, net of property incentives, by category are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other capital expenditures consist of ongoing improvements to our stores in the ordinary course of business and expenditures related to various growth initiatives.

Our capital expenditures, net of property incentives, over the next five years is expected to be approximately $4,000, compared with $3,300 over the previous five years. We plan our spending in 2016 to be down slightly compared with 2015. Our capital expenditures, net of property incentives, over the next five years is primarily focused in the areas of continued expansion into new markets such as Canada and Manhattan, investment in new stores and remodels of existing full-line stores. Over these next five years, we expect that 60% of our net capital expenditures will be for new store openings, remodels and relocations, and 40% for ecommerce and information technology. We believe that we have the capacity for additional capital investments should opportunities arise.

Proceeds from the Sale of Credit Card Receivables Originated at Third Parties

The Nordstrom Visa credit cards allow our customers to make purchases at merchants outside of our stores and accumulate points for our Nordstrom Rewards program. In 2015, we completed the sale of a substantial majority of our credit card receivables resulting in $890 of proceeds related to the receivables sold which were originated at third parties. 

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $2,539 in 2015 compared with $698 in 2014 and $589 in 2013. Our financing activities include repurchases of common stock, our short-term and long-term borrowing activity, and payment of dividends.

Short-term and Long-term Borrowing Activity 

In 2015, as a condition of closing the credit card receivable transaction (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8), we defeased $325 in secured Series 2011-1 Class A Notes in order to provide the receivables to TD free and clear. 

In 2013, we exchanged $201 senior unsecured notes due in January 2038 for $265 senior unsecured notes due in January 2044. The $201 of debt that was exchanged is reflected as a non-cash financing activity in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8 while the $64 excess of outstanding principal was recorded as a discount to be amortized over the term of the notes due in 2044.

Dividends

In 2015, we paid dividends of $1,185, or $6.33 per share, compared with $251, or $1.32 per share, in 2014 and $234, or $1.20 per share, in 2013. Dividends paid in 2015 included a special cash dividend of $905, or $4.85 per share of outstanding common stock, in addition to our recurring quarterly dividend of $0.37 per share. The special dividend was authorized by our Board of Directors on October 1, 2015 and was paid using proceeds from the sale of our credit card receivables (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). During the first quarter of 2015, we increased our quarterly dividend from $0.33 per share to $0.37 per share. In determining the amount of dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, while taking into consideration our current and projected operating performance and liquidity. Our dividend payout ratio target range is 30% to 35% and is calculated as our dividend payments divided by net earnings.

In February 2016, subsequent to year end, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.37 per share, which will be paid on March 22, 2016.

Share Repurchases

In February 2013, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $800 of our outstanding common stock, through March 1, 2015. There was $73 of unused capacity upon program expiration. In September 2014, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $1,000 of our outstanding common stock, through March 1, 2016. As of January 30, 2016, there is no capacity remaining on the September 2014 authorization. On October 1, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $1,000 of our outstanding common stock, through March 1, 2017. During 2015, we repurchased 19.1 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $1,191 and had $811 remaining in share repurchase capacity as of January 30, 2016. The actual number, price, manner and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will be subject to market and economic conditions and applicable SEC rules.

28
Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and when used in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides investors with a meaningful analysis of our ability to generate cash from our business. For the year ended January 30, 2016, Free Cash Flow increased to $1,131 compared with $96 for the year ended January 31, 2015, primarily due to proceeds received from the sale of our credit card receivables, partially offset by cash dividends paid.

Free Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, operating cash flows or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Free Cash Flow is net cash provided by operating activities. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Capacity and Commitments

As of January 30, 2016, we had total short-term borrowing capacity of $800, which is our five-year $800 senior unsecured revolving credit facility (“revolver”) that expires in April 2020, with an option to extend for an additional year. In April 2015, we terminated our previous $800 senior unsecured revolving credit facility that was scheduled to expire March 2018. Under the terms of our revolver, we pay a variable rate of interest and a commitment fee based on our debt rating. The revolver is available for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We have the option to increase the revolving commitment by up to $200, to a total of $1,000, provided that we obtain written consent from the lenders. 

Our $800 commercial paper program allows us to use the proceeds to fund operating cash requirements. Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing available liquidity under the revolver by an amount equal to the principal amount of commercial paper. 

As of January 30, 2016, we had no issuances outstanding under our commercial paper program and no borrowings outstanding under our revolver.

Our wholly owned subsidiary in Puerto Rico maintains a $52 unsecured borrowing facility to support our expansion into that market. The facility expires in November 2018 and borrowings on this facility incur interest based upon the LIBOR plus 1.275% per annum and also incurs a fee based on our unused commitment. As of January 30, 2016, we had $52 outstanding on this facility.

We have a registration statement on file with the SEC using a “shelf” registration process. Under this shelf registration process, we may offer and sell, from time to time, any combination of the securities described in a prospectus to the registration statement, including registered debt, provided we maintain Well-known Seasoned Issuer (“WKSI”) status.

We maintain trade and standby letters of credit to facilitate international payments. As of January 30, 2016, we have $8 available under the trade letter of credit, with $1 outstanding, and $15 available under the standby letter of credit, with $2 outstanding.

Plans for our Manhattan full-line store, which we currently expect to open in 2019, ultimately include owning a condominium interest in a mixed-use tower and leasing certain nearby properties. As of January 30, 2016, we had approximately $176 of fee interest in land, which is expected to convert to the condominium interest once the store is constructed. We have committed to make future installment payments based on the developer meeting pre-established construction and development milestones. In the unlikely event that this project is not completed, the opening may be delayed and we may be subject to future losses or capital commitments in order to complete construction or to monetize our previous investments in the land. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  29
Impact of Credit Ratings

Under the terms of our revolver, any borrowings we may enter into will accrue interest for Euro-Dollar Rate Loans at a floating base rate tied to LIBOR, for Canadian Dealer Offer Rate Loans at a floating rate tied to CDOR, and for Base Rate Loans at the highest of: (i) the Euro-Dollar rate plus 100 basis points, (ii) the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points and (iii) the prime rate.

The rate depends upon the type of borrowing incurred, plus in each case an applicable margin. This applicable margin varies depending upon the credit ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt. At the time of this report, our long-term unsecured debt ratings, outlook and resulting applicable margin were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt improve, the applicable margin associated with any such borrowings may decrease, resulting in a slightly lower borrowing cost under this facility. Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt worsen, the applicable margin associated with our borrowings may increase, resulting in a slightly higher borrowing cost under this facility.

Debt Covenants

The revolver requires that we maintain an adjusted debt to earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent (“EBITDAR”) leverage ratio of less than four times (see the following additional discussion of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR). As of January 30, 2016, we were in compliance with this covenant. 

30
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating and operate with an efficient capital structure. In evaluating our debt levels, this measure provides a reflection of our credit worthiness that could impact our credit rating and borrowing costs. We also have a debt covenant that requires an adjusted debt to EBITDAR leverage ratio of less than four times. As of January 30, 2016, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.2, compared with 2.1 as of January 31, 2015. This increase was primarily driven by a reduction in earnings before interest and income taxes.

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, debt to net earnings, net earnings, debt or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is debt to net earnings. The following is a reconciliation of the components of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR and debt to net earnings:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 Based upon the estimated lease liability as of the end of the period, calculated as the trailing 12 months of rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease or we had purchased the property.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  31
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of January 30, 2016. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $1,721 as of January 30, 2016, payable over the remaining life of the debt.

The capital and operating lease obligations in the table above do not include payments for operating expenses that are required by most of our lease agreements. Such expenses, which include common area charges, real estate taxes and other executory costs, totaled $97 in 2015, $88 in 2014 and $81 in 2013. In addition, some of our leases require additional rental payments based on a percentage of our sales, referred to as “percentage rent.” Percentage rent, which is also excluded from the obligations in the table above, was $13 in 2015 and $14 in 2014 and 2013.

Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services and capital expenditure commitments, including our Manhattan store.

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and other liability insurance reserves and postretirement benefits. The payment amounts presented above were estimated based on historical payment trends and the amounts due within one year are omitted as these are included within current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above. Also excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $13, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash payments, if any, for these liabilities.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

On October 1, 2015, we completed the sale of a substantial majority of our U.S. Visa and private label credit card portfolio to TD (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). This transaction represents an off-balance sheet arrangement and credit card receivables serviced under this contract are $2,222 as of January 30, 2016. The unused credit card capacity available for the accounts retained represents an off-balance sheet commitment. As of January 30, 2016, this unfunded commitment was $97. 

Other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business, the development of our Manhattan full-line store and our credit card receivable transaction, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements during 2015.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we believe are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures that follow.

32
Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue net of estimated sales returns and excluding sales taxes. Revenue from sales to customers shipped directly from our stores, website and catalog, which includes shipping revenue when applicable, is recognized upon estimated receipt by the customer. We estimate customer merchandise returns based on historical return patterns and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly.

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, there is a possibility that actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. In the past three years, there were no significant changes in customer return behavior and we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of our sales return reserve. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had a $10 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 30, 2016.

Inventory

Our merchandise inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market value using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories are determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. The value of our inventory on the balance sheet is then reduced by a charge to cost of sales for retail inventory markdowns taken on the selling floor. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross profit.

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Our obsolescence reserve contains uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.

We do not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence reserve. A 10% change in the obsolescence reserve would have had a $2 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 30, 2016.

Goodwill

We review our goodwill annually for impairment or when circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable. We perform this evaluation at the reporting unit level, comprised of the principal business units within our Retail segment, through the application of a two-step fair value test. The first step compares the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value, which is based on the expected present value of future cash flows (income approach), comparable public companies and acquisitions (market approach) or a combination of both. If fair value is lower than the carrying value, then a second step is performed to quantify the amount of the impairment. 

As part of our impairment testing, we utilize certain assumptions and apply judgment regarding a number of factors. Significant estimates in the market approach include identifying similar companies and acquisitions with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return of investment, and assessing comparable earnings or revenue multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit. Assumptions in the income approach include future cash flows for the business, future growth rates and discount rates. Estimates of cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to the business model or changes in operating performance. For Nordstrom.com, Jeffrey, Trunk Club and HauteLook, the fair values substantially exceeded carrying values and therefore we had no material goodwill impairment in 2015, 2014 or 2013. A 10% change in the fair value of any of these reporting units would not have had an impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 30, 2016. 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values of long-lived assets, including buildings, equipment and amortizable intangible assets, may be impaired, we perform an evaluation of recoverability by comparing the carrying values of the net assets to their related projected undiscounted future cash flows, in addition to other quantitative and qualitative analyses. 

Land, property and equipment are grouped at the lowest level at which there are identifiable cash flows when assessing impairment. Cash flows for our retail store assets are identified at the individual store level, while our intangible assets associated with HauteLook and Trunk Club are identified at their respective reporting unit levels. The assets recorded in connection with the credit card receivable transaction are individually evaluated against the anticipated cash flows under the program agreement (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). 

Our estimates are subject to uncertainties and may be impacted by various external factors such as economic conditions and market competition. While we believe the inputs and assumptions utilized in our analyses of future cash flows are reasonable, events or circumstances may change which could cause us to revise these estimates.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  33
Stock-Based Compensation Expense

We grant stock-based awards under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan (“2010 Plan”), 2002 Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan (“2002 Plan”) and Trunk Club Value Creation Plan (“VCP”), and employees may purchase our stock at a discount under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). We predominantly recognize stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards at their estimated grant date fair value, recorded on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Compensation expense for certain award holders is accelerated based upon achievement of age and years of service. The total compensation expense is reduced by estimated forfeitures expected to occur over the vesting period of the awards. 

We estimate the grant date fair value of stock options using the Binomial Lattice option valuation model. Stock-based compensation expense related to the VCP is based on the grant date fair value of the payout scenario we believe is probable using the Black-Scholes valuation model and is recognized on an accelerated basis due to performance criteria and graded vesting features of the plan. The fair value of restricted stock units is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant. 

Calculating the grant date fair value of stock-based awards is based on certain assumptions and requires judgment, including estimating stock price volatility, forfeiture rates, expected life and performance criteria. A 10% change in stock-based compensation expense would have a $4 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 30, 2016.

Income Taxes

We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Using this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is determined that some portion of the tax benefit will not be realized.

We regularly evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances and information available. If we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained, we recognize a benefit at the largest amount that we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our unrecognized tax benefit was $19 as of January 30, 2016 and $15 as of January 31, 2015. Interest and penalties related to income tax matters are classified as a component of income tax expense.

Income taxes require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits and our particular facts and circumstances. Also, as audits are completed or statutes of limitations lapse, it may be necessary to record adjustments to our taxes payable, deferred taxes, tax reserves or income tax expense. Such adjustments did not materially impact our effective income tax rate in 2015 or 2014.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements and the impact these standards are anticipated to have on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.

34
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.