ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

SCANA, through its wholly-owned regulated subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in parts of South Carolina and in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Through a wholly-owned nonregulated subsidiary, SCANA markets natural gas to retail customers in Georgia and to wholesale customers primarily in the southeast. Other wholly-owned nonregulated subsidiaries provide fiber optic and other telecommunications services and provide service contracts on certain home appliances and heating and air conditioning units. A service company subsidiary of SCANA provides administrative, management and other services to SCANA and its subsidiaries.

The following map indicates areas where the Company’s significant business segments conduct their activities, as further described in this overview section. 

The following percentages reflect revenues and net income earned by the Company’s regulated and nonregulated businesses (including the holding company) and the percentage of total assets held by them. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

26
Key Earnings Drivers and Outlook

During 2012, economic growth showed signs of improvement in the southeast, though the Company cannot determine if such improvement will be sustainable. Significant industrial announcements were made in the Company’s South Carolina and North Carolina service territory during the year, and announcements made in previous years began to materialize. In addition, the Port of Charleston continues to see increased traffic, with container volume up 9.6% over 2011. Residential and commercial customer growth rates in the Company’s regulated businesses also were positive. Unemployment rates for the states in which the Company primarily provides service also showed some improvement in 2012, though unemployment remains high and continues to slow the pace of economic recovery in the Southeast. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Over the next five years, key earnings drivers for the Company will be additions to rate base at its regulated subsidiaries, consisting primarily of capital expenditures for new generating capacity, environmental facilities and system expansion. Other factors that will impact future earnings growth include the regulatory environment, customer growth and usage in each of the regulated utility businesses, earnings in the natural gas marketing business in Georgia and the level of growth of operation and maintenance expenses and taxes.

Electric Operations

The electric operations segment is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company, and is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in South Carolina. At December 31, 2012, SCE&G provided electricity to approximately 670,000 customers in an area covering nearly 17,000 square miles. GENCO owns a coal-fired generating station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. Fuel Company acquires, owns, provides financing for and sells at cost to SCE&G nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels and emission and other environmental allowances.

Operating results for electric operations are primarily driven by customer demand for electricity, rates allowed to be charged to customers and the ability to control growth in costs. The effect of weather on operating results is largely mitigated by the eWNA. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity. SCE&G’s allowed return on equity through 2012 was 10.7% for non-BLRA expenditures, and 11.0% for BLRA-related expenditures. As further described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, SCE&G's allowed return on equity for non-BLRA expenditures became 10.25% effective January 1, 2013. Demand for electricity is primarily affected by weather, customer growth and the economy. SCE&G is able to recover the cost of fuel used in electric generation through retail customers’ bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources.

On May 30, 2012, SCE&G filed an IRP with the SCPSC. The IRP evaluates future electric generation needs based on a variety of factors, including customer energy demands, EPA regulations, reserve margins and fuel costs. The IRP identified a total of six coal-fired units that SCE&G intends to retire by 2018, subject to future developments in environmental regulations, among other matters. These units have an aggregate generating capacity (summer 2012) of 730 MW. One unit, with a net carrying value of $20 million at December 31, 2012, was retired and its value is recorded in regulatory assets. Under provisions of a December 2012 rate order, SCE&G will be allowed recovery of and a return on the net carrying value of this unit over its original remaining useful life of approximately 14 years. The net carrying value of the remaining units totaled $362 million at December 31, 2012, and is identified as Plant to be Retired, Net in the consolidated financial statements. SCE&G plans to request recovery of and a return on the net carrying value of these remaining units in future rate proceedings in connection with their retirement, and expects that such deferred amounts will be recovered through rates. In the meantime, these units remain in rate base, and SCE&G continues to depreciate them using composite straight-line rates approved by the SCPSC.

New Nuclear Construction

SCE&G is constructing two 1,117 MW nuclear generation units at the site of Summer Station. SCE&G will jointly own the New Units with one or more parties, and SCE&G will be responsible for 55% of the cost and receive 55% of the output, with other parties responsible for and receiving the remaining share. SCE&G's share of the estimated cash outlays (future value, excluding AFC) totals approximately $6 billion for plant costs and related transmission infrastructure costs, 

27
which costs are projected based on historical one-year and five-year escalation rates as required by the SCPSC. The first New Unit is scheduled for substantial completion in 2017, and the second in 2018.

Significant recent developments in new nuclear construction include the following:

•In March 2012, the NRC approved and issued COLs for the New Units.

•In April 2012, SCE&G issued a Full Notice to Proceed to the Consortium for construction of the New Units, allowing for the commencement of safety related aspects of the project.

•In July 2012, SCE&G and the Consortium finalized an agreement resolving specific issues that impacted the project's budget and schedule. These included claims specifically relating to COL delays, design modifications of the shield building and certain pre-fabricated structural modules for the New Units, and unanticipated rock conditions at the site. SCE&G's portion of the costs for these specific claims was set at approximately $138 million (in 2007 dollars).

•The SCPSC approved a 2.3% increase, or approximately $52.1 million, in a rate adjustment under the BLRA designed to incorporate the financing cost of incremental construction work in progress incurred for the new nuclear generation. The adjustment was based on SCE&G's updated cost of debt and capital structure and on an allowed return on common equity of 11.0%. The increase was effective for bills rendered on and after October 30, 2012. 

•In October 2012, the project received its last major environmental permit, which is the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit for the wastewater system of the New Units.

•In November 2012, the SCPSC approved an updated construction schedule and additional updated capital costs of $278 million (SCE&G's portion in 2007 dollars), which included substantially all of the costs finalized in the July 2012 agreement with the Consortium.

•In February 2013, work began on the reinforcing bar reconfiguration in the Unit 2 nuclear island elevator pit and sump areas. The initial pouring of the Unit 2 nuclear island basemat could take place in the first quarter of 2013 following the completion of this work and based upon an expedited approval by the NRC staff. It is not anticipated that the resolution of this issue will cause a delay in the commercial operation of the New Units in 2017 and 2018.

•The components of the condenser for Unit 2 have arrived onsite and are being assembled. Shipment of the reactor vessel for Unit 2 is planned for the second quarter of 2013, and the steam generators for Unit 2 are scheduled to be delivered early in 2013.

•While progress has been made with production, quality assurance and quality control issues, the schedule for fabrication of sub-modules at the contractor facility remains a focus area for the project.

For additional information on these and other matters, see New Nuclear Construction Matters herein and Note 2 and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

Environmental

The EPA proposed new rules in 2012 related to air quality that would establish a new source performance standard for GHG emission from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. Also, in October 2012, the EPA filed a petition with the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia for a rehearing of the court's decision that vacated CSAPR and left CAIR in place. In January 2013, the Court denied this petition. In 2013, additional significant regulatory initiatives by the EPA and other federal agencies will likely proceed. These initiatives may require the Company to build or otherwise acquire generating capacity from energy sources that exclude fossil fuels, nuclear or hydro facilities (for example, under an RES). It is also possible that new initiatives will be introduced to reduce further carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. The Company cannot predict whether such initiatives will be enacted, and if they are, the conditions they would impose on utilities.

The EPA has stated its intention to propose, in 2013, new federal regulations affecting the management and disposal of CCR, such as ash. Such regulations could result in the treatment of some CCRs as hazardous waste and could impose significant costs to utilities, such as SCE&G and GENCO. The EPA is also expected to issue regulations during 2013 for cooling water intake structures to meet BACT at existing power generating stations. While the Company cannot predict how extensive the regulations will be, the Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates.

28
Gas Distribution

The gas distribution segment, comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy, is primarily engaged in the purchase, transportation and sale of natural gas to retail customers in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. At December 31, 2012 this segment provided natural gas to approximately 819,600 customers in areas covering 34,600 square miles.

Operating results for gas distribution are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, rates allowed to be charged to customers and the ability to control growth in costs. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity of 10.25% for SCE&G and 10.60% for PSNC Energy.

Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by weather, customer growth, the economy and the availability and price of alternate fuels. Natural gas competes with electricity, propane and heating oil to serve the heating and, to a lesser extent, other household energy needs of residential and small commercial customers. This competition is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect price and will impact the Company’s ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers. In addition, the production of shale gas in the United States has resulted in significantly lower prices for this commodity in 2010 through 2012. Low natural gas commodity prices are expected to continue in 2013 and for the foreseeable future.

Retail Gas Marketing

SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, comprises the retail gas marketing segment. This segment markets natural gas to approximately 450,000 customers throughout Georgia (as of December 31, 2012, and includes approximately 72,000 customers in its regulated division described below). SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents an approximate 30% share of the customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state. SCANA Energy’s competitors include an affiliate of a large energy company with experience in Georgia’s energy market, as well as several electric membership cooperatives. SCANA Energy’s ability to maintain its market share depends on the prices it charges customers relative to the prices charged by its competitors, its ability to continue to provide high levels of customer service and other factors. In addition, SCANA Energy's operating results are highly sensitive to weather. This market has matured in the last decade, resulting in lower margins and enhanced competition for customers.

As Georgia’s regulated provider, SCANA Energy provides service to low-income customers and to customers unable to obtain or maintain natural gas service from other marketers at rates approved by the GPSC. SCANA Energy receives funding from the Universal Service Fund to offset some of the bad debt associated with the low-income group. SCANA Energy’s contract to serve as Georgia’s regulated provider of natural gas has been renewed by the GPSC through August 31, 2014. SCANA Energy files financial and other information periodically with the GPSC, and such information is available at www.psc.state.ga.us (which is not intended as an active hyperlink; the information on the GPSC website is not part of this or any other report filed with the SEC).

SCANA Energy and certain of SCANA’s other natural gas distribution and marketing segments maintain gas inventory and utilize forward contracts and other financial instruments, including commodity swaps and futures contracts, to manage their exposure to fluctuating commodity natural gas prices. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. As a part of this risk management process, at any given time, a portion of SCANA’s projected natural gas needs has been purchased or otherwise placed under contract. Since SCANA Energy operates in a competitive market, it may be unable to sustain its current levels of customers and/or pricing, thereby reducing expected margins and profitability. Further, there can be no assurance that Georgia’s gas delivery regulatory framework will remain unchanged as dynamic market conditions evolve.

Energy Marketing

The divisions of SEMI excluding SCANA Energy comprise the energy marketing segment. This segment markets natural gas primarily in the southeast and provides energy-related risk management services to customers.

The operating results for energy marketing are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas and the ability to control growth of costs. Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by the price of alternate fuels and customer growth. In addition, certain pipeline capacity available for Energy Marketing to serve industrial and other customers is dependent upon the market share held by SCANA Energy in the retail market. 

29
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diluted Earnings Per Share

In May 2010, SCANA entered into equity forward sales contracts for approximately 6.6 million common shares. During periods when the average market price of SCANA’s common stock is above the per share adjusted forward sales price, the Company computes diluted earnings per share giving effect to this dilutive potential common stock utilizing the treasury stock method. SCANA expects to settle the equity forward contracts in the first quarter of 2013.

AFC

AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. The Company includes an equity portion of AFC in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. AFC represented approximately 5.4% of income before income taxes in 2012, 3.9% in 2011 and 5.6% in 2010.

Electric Operations

Electric Operations is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margin (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2012 vs 2011

Margin increased primarily by $54.4 million due to an increase in retail electric base rates approved by the SCPSC under the BLRA, by $3.7 million due to customer growth and by $11.0 million due to the expiration of a decrement rider approved in the 2010 retail electric base rate case. 

2011 vs 2010

Margin increased by $49.0 million due to an increase in retail electric base rates approved by the SCPSC under the BLRA and by $34.5 million due to an SCPSC-approved increase in retail electric base rates in July 2010. Also, margin in the first quarter of 2010 was adjusted downward by $17.4 million pursuant to an SCPSC regulatory order in connection with SCE&G’s annual fuel cost proceeding. These increases were partially offset by $12.0 million due to the effects of weather in 2010 before the implementation of the SCPSC-approved eWNA and by lower customer usage of $8.7 million.

30
Sales volumes (in GWh) related to the electric margin above, by class, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gas Distribution

Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy. Gas Distribution sales margin (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales volumes (in MMBTU) by class, including transportation gas, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31
Retail Gas Marketing

Retail Gas Marketing is comprised of SCANA Energy which operates in Georgia’s natural gas market. Retail Gas Marketing revenues and net income were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Energy Marketing

Energy Marketing is comprised of the Company’s nonregulated marketing operations, excluding SCANA Energy. Energy Marketing operating revenues and net income were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Operating Expenses

Other operating expenses were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32
Other Income (Expense)

Other income (expense) includes the results of certain incidental (non-utility) activities and the activities of certain non-regulated subsidiaries. Components of other income (expense) were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Expense

Components of interest expense, net of the debt component of AFC, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest on long-term debt increased in each year primarily due to increased long-term borrowings. Other interest expense decreased in 2012 and increased in 2011, primarily due to corresponding changes in principal balances outstanding on short-term debt over the respective prior year and also due to the reversal in 2012 of interest which had been accrued in 2011 related to a tax uncertainty that was resolved (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements).

Income Taxes

Income tax expense increased in 2012 over 2011 and in 2011 over 2010 primarily due to increases in income before taxes. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds, the incurrence of additional short- and long-term indebtedness and sales of equity securities. The Company expects that barring a future impairment of the capital markets, it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future, including the cash requirements for nuclear construction and refinancing maturing long-term debt. The Company’s ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the year ended December 31, 2012 was 2.93.

Cash requirements for SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries arise primarily from their operational needs, funding their construction programs and payment of dividends to SCANA. The ability of the regulated subsidiaries to replace existing plant investment, to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas and to install equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, will depend on their ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their ongoing construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of the regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief.

The Company obtains equity from SCANA’s stock plans. Shares of SCANA common stock are acquired on behalf of participants in SCANA’s Investor Plus Plan and Stock Purchase-Savings Plan through the original issuance of shares, rather than being purchased on the open market. This provided approximately $97 million of additional equity during 2012 and is expected to provide approximately $106 million of additional capital in 2013. Due primarily to new nuclear construction plans, the Company anticipates keeping this strategy in place for the foreseeable future. The Company also expects to issue 6.6 million common shares under forward sales contracts in the first quarter of 2013.

33
SCANA’s leverage ratio of long- and short-term debt to capital was approximately 58% at December 31, 2012. SCANA has publicly announced its desire to return its leverage ratio to levels between 54% and 57%, but SCANA’s ability to achieve and maintain those levels depends on a number of factors. In the future, if SCANA is not able to achieve and maintain its leverage ratio within the desired range, the Company’s debt ratings may be affected, it may be required to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and its access to the capital markets may be limited.

Capital Expenditures

Cash outlays for property additions and construction expenditures, including nuclear fuel, net of AFC, were $1.1 billion in 2012 and are estimated to be $1.6 billion in 2013.

The Company’s current estimates of its capital expenditures for construction and nuclear fuel for 2013-2015, which are subject to continuing review and adjustment, are as follows:

Estimated Capital Expenditures 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2012 are summarized as follows:

Contractual Cash Obligations 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the table above in purchase obligations is SCE&G’s portion of a contractual agreement for the design and construction of the New Units at the Summer Station site. SCE&G expects to be a joint owner and share operating costs and generation output of the New Units, with SCE&G responsible for 55 percent of the cost and receiving 55 percent of the output, and the other joint owner (or owners) the remaining 45 percent. 

Also included in purchase obligations are customary purchase orders under which the Company has the option to utilize certain vendors without the obligation to do so. The Company may terminate such arrangements without penalty.

34
Other commercial commitments includes estimated obligations under forward contracts for natural gas purchases. Forward contracts for natural gas purchases include customary “make-whole” or default provisions, but are not considered to be “take-or-pay” contracts. Certain of these contracts relate to regulated businesses; therefore, the effects of such contracts on fuel costs are reflected in electric or gas rates. Other commercial commitments also includes a “take-and-pay” contract for natural gas which expires in 2019 and estimated obligations for coal and nuclear fuel purchases.

 In addition to the contractual cash obligations above, the Company sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and an unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plan for retirees. The pension plan is adequately funded under current regulations, and no contributions are anticipated until after 2014. Cash payments under the health care and life insurance benefit plan were $10.9 million in 2012, and such annual payments are expected to be the same or increase up to $14.3 million in the future.

In addition, the Company is party to certain NYMEX natural gas futures contracts for which any unfavorable market movements are funded in cash. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges and their effects are reflected within other comprehensive income until the anticipated sales transactions occur. See further discussion at Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. At December 31, 2012, the Company had posted $10.8 million in cash collateral for such contracts. In addition, the Company had posted $67.5 million in cash collateral related to interest rate derivative contracts.

The Company also has a legal obligation associated with the decommissioning and dismantling of Summer Station Unit 1 and other conditional asset retirement obligations that are not listed in the contractual cash obligations table. See Notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

Financing Limits and Related Matters

The Company’s issuance of various securities, including long-term and short-term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and FERC. Financing programs currently utilized by the Company follow.

SCE&G has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness and to assume liabilities as a guarantor(pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue unsecured promissory notes, commercial paper and direct loans in amounts not to exceed $1.6 billion outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less, and may enter into guaranty agreements in favor of lenders, bankers, and dealers in commercial paper in amounts not to exceed $600 million. GENCO has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness not to exceed $150 million outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less. The authority described herein will expire in October 2014.

 In October 2012, the Company's existing committed LOCs were amended and extended. As a result, at December 31, 2012 SCANA, SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy were parties to five-year credit agreements in the amounts of $300 million, $1.2 billion, of which $500 million relates to Fuel Company, and $100 million, respectively, which expire in October 2017. In addition, at December 31, 2012 SCE&G was party to a three-year credit agreement in the amount of $200 million which expires in October 2015. These credit agreements are used for general corporate purposes, including liquidity support for each company's commercial paper program and working capital needs and, in the case of Fuel Company, to finance or refinance the purchase of nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels, and emission and other environmental allowances. For a list of banks providing credit support and other information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

As of December 31, 2012, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its $1.8 billion credit facilities, had approximately $623 million in commercial paper borrowings outstanding, was obligated under $3.3 million in LOC supported letters of credit, and held approximately $72 million in cash and temporary investments. The Company regularly monitors the commercial paper and short-term credit markets to optimize the timing for repayment of the outstanding balance on its draws, while maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity. Average short-term borrowings outstanding during 2012 were approximately $560 million. Short-term cash needs were met primarily through the issuance of commercial paper.

At December 31, 2012, the Company’s long-term debt portfolio has a weighted average maturity of approximately 17 years and bears an average cost of 5.88%. Substantially all of the Company's long-term debt bears fixed interest rates or is swapped to fixed. To further preserve liquidity, the Company rigorously reviews its projected capital expenditures and operating costs and adjusts them where possible without impacting safety, reliability, and core customer service.

35
The Company’s articles of incorporation do not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. However, SCANA’s junior subordinated indenture (relating to the hereinafter defined Hybrids), SCE&G’s bond indenture (relating to the hereinafter defined Bonds) and PSNC Energy’s note purchase and debenture purchase agreements each contain provisions that, under certain circumstances which the Company considers to be remote, could limit the payment of cash dividends on their respective common stock.

With respect to hydroelectric projects, the Federal Power Act requires the appropriation of a portion of certain earnings therefrom. At December 31, 2012, approximately $61.0 million of retained earnings were restricted by this requirement as to payment of cash dividends on SCE&G’s common stock.

SCANA Corporation

SCANA has in effect an indenture which permits the issuance of unsecured debt securities from time to time including its medium-term notes. This indenture contains no specific limit on the amount of unsecured debt securities which may be issued.

SCANA has outstanding $150 million of enhanced junior subordinated notes (Hybrids) bearing an interest rate of 7.70% and maturing on January 30, 2065, subject to extension to January 30, 2080. Because their structure and terms are characteristic of both debt instruments and equity securities, the credit rating agencies consider securities like the Hybrids to be hybrid debt instruments and give some “equity credit” to the issuers of such securities for purposes of computing leverage ratios of debt to capital. The Hybrids are only subject to redemption at SCANA’s option and may be redeemed at any time, although the redemption prices payable by SCANA differ depending on the timing of the redemption and the circumstances (if any) giving rise thereto.

In connection with the Hybrids, SCANA executed an RCC in favor of the holders of certain designated debt (referred to as “covered debt”). Under the terms of the RCC, SCANA agreed not to redeem or repurchase all or part of the Hybrids prior to the termination date of the RCC, unless it uses the proceeds of certain qualifying securities sold to non-affiliates within 180 days prior to the redemption or repurchase date. The proceeds SCANA receives from such qualifying securities, adjusted by a predetermined factor, must exceed the redemption or repurchase price of the Hybrids. Qualifying securities include common stock, and other securities that generally rank equal to or junior to the Hybrids and include distribution, deferral and long-dated maturity features similar to the Hybrids. For purposes of the RCC, non-affiliates include (but are not limited to) individuals enrolled in SCANA’s dividend reinvestment plan, direct stock purchase plan and employee benefit plans.

The RCC is scheduled to terminate on the earliest to occur of the following: (a) January 30, 2035 (or later, if the maturity date of the Hybrids is extended), (b) the date on which SCANA no longer has any eligible debt which ranks senior in right of payment to the Hybrids, (c) the date on which the holders of at least a majority in principal amount of “covered debt” agree to the termination thereof or (d) the date on which the Hybrids are accelerated following an event of default with respect thereto. SCANA’s $250 million in Medium Term Notes due April 1, 2020 were initially designated as “covered debt” under the RCC.

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company

SCE&G is subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which all of its first mortgage bonds (Bonds) have been issued. Bonds may be issued under the Mortgage in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding the sum of (1) 70% of Unfunded Net Property Additions (as therein defined), (2) the aggregate principal amount of retired Bonds and (3) cash deposited with the trustee. Bonds, other than certain Bonds issued on the basis of retired Bonds, may be issued under the Mortgage only if Adjusted Net Earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice (2.0) the annual interest requirements on all outstanding Bonds and Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Bond Ratio was 5.22.

Financing Activities

In January 2013, JEDA issued for the benefit of SCE&G $39.5 million of 4.0% tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds due February 1, 2028, and $14.7 million of 3.63% tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds due February 1, 2033. Proceeds from these sales were loaned by JEDA to SCE&G and, together with other available funds, were used to redeem prior to maturity $56.9 million of 5.2% industrial revenue bonds due November 1, 2027.

36
In November 2012, SCE&G repaid at maturity $4.4 million of 4.2% tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds, and repaid prior to maturity $29.2 million of 5.45% tax-exempt industrial revenue bonds due November 1, 2032.

In July 2012, SCE&G issued $250 million of 4.35% first mortgage bonds due February 1, 2042 (issued at a premium with a yield of 3.86%), which constituted a reopening of the prior offering of $250 million of 4.35% first mortgage bonds which were issued in January 2012. Proceeds from these sales were used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&G's construction program, to finance capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.

In January 2012, SCANA issued $250 million of 4.125% medium term notes due February 1, 2022. Proceeds from the sale were used by SCANA to retire $250 million of its 6.25% medium term notes due February 1, 2012. 

In October 2011, SCE&G issued $30 million of 3.22% first mortgage bonds due October 18, 2021. Proceeds from the sale of these bonds were used to redeem prior to maturity $30 million of the 5.7% pollution control facilities revenue bonds due November 1, 2024 issued by Orangeburg County, South Carolina, on SCE&G’s behalf.

In May 2011, SCE&G issued $100 million of 5.45% first mortgage bonds due February 1, 2041, which constituted a reopening of the prior offering of $250 million of 5.45% first mortgage bonds issued in January 2011. Proceeds from these sales were used to retire $150 million of SCE&G first mortgage bonds due February 1, 2011, to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&G’s construction program, to finance other capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.

In May 2011 SCANA issued $300 million of 4.75% medium term notes due May 15, 2021. Proceeds from the sale of these notes were used by SCANA to retire $300 million of its 6.875% medium term notes.

In February 2011, PSNC Energy issued $150 million of 4.59% unsecured senior notes due February 14, 2021. Proceeds from these notes were used to retire PSNC Energy’s $150 million medium term notes due February 15, 2011.

SCANA issued common stock valued at $59.2 million (at time of issue) in a public offering on May 17, 2010 and entered into forward agreements for the sale of approximately 6.6 million shares. SCANA expects to settle the forward sale agreements in the first quarter of 2013.

In March 2010, PSNC Energy issued $100 million of 6.54% unsecured notes due March 30, 2020. Proceeds from the sale were used to pay down short-term debt and for general corporate purposes.

During 2012 there were net cash inflows related to financing activities of approximately $260 million primarily due to issuances of common stock and long-term debt, partially offset by repayment of short- and long-term debt and payment of dividends.

The Company paid approximately $37 million, net, in 2012 to settle interest rate contracts associated with the issuance of long-term debt.

For additional information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

In February 2013, SCANA increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on SCANA common stock to $.5075 per share, an increase of 2.5% from the prior declared dividend. The next quarterly dividend is payable April 1, 2013 to shareholders of record on March 11, 2013.

In December 2010, the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization and Job Creation Act of 2010 (Tax Relief Act) was signed into law. Major tax incentives in the Tax Relief Act included 100% bonus depreciation for property placed in service after September 8, 2010 and through 2011 and 50% bonus depreciation for property placed in service for 2012. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 extended the 50% bonus depreciation for property placed in service in 2013. These incentives, along with certain other deductions, have had a positive impact on the cash flows of the Company and are expected to continue to do so through 2013. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company's operations are subject to extensive regulation by various federal and state authorities in the areas of air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes. Applicable statutes and rules include the CAA, CWA, Nuclear Waste Act and CERCLA, among others. Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, which the Company expects to recover through existing ratemaking provisions.

37
For the three years ended December 31, 2012, the Company's capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at its fossil fuel generating stations totaled $79.6 million. In addition, the Company made expenditures to operate and maintain environmental control equipment at its fossil plants of $10.2 million in 2012, $7.9 million during 2011 and $6.5 million during 2010, which are included in “Other operation and maintenance” expense and made expenditures to handle waste ash of $7.9 million in 2012, $8.7 million in 2011 and $5.9 million in 2010, which are included in “Fuel used in electric generation.” In addition, included within “Other operation and maintenance” expense is an annual amortization of $1.4 million in each of 2012, 2011 and 2010 related to SCE&G's recovery of MGP remediation costs as approved by the SCPSC. It is not possible to estimate all future costs related to environmental matters, but forecasts for capitalized environmental expenditures for the Company are $15.3 million for 2013 and $96.0 million for the four-year period 2014-2017. These expenditures are included in the Company's Estimated Capital Expenditures table, are discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, and include known costs related to the matters discussed below.

At the state level, no significant environmental legislation that would affect the Company's operations advanced during 2012. The Company cannot predict whether such legislation will be introduced or enacted in 2013, or if new regulations or changes to existing regulations at the state level will be implemented in the coming year. Several regulatory initiatives at the federal level did advance in 2012 and more are expected to advance in 2013 as described below.

Air Quality

With the pervasive emergence of concern over the issue of global climate change as a significant influence upon the economy, SCANA, SCE&G and GENCO are subject to climate-related financial risks, including those involving regulatory requirements responsive to GHG emissions, as well as those involving physical impacts which could arise from global climate change. Other business and financial risks arising from such climate change could also arise. The Company cannot predict all of the climate-related regulatory and physical risks nor the related consequences which might impact the Company, and the following discussion should not be considered all-inclusive.

From a regulatory perspective, SCANA, SCE&G and GENCO continually monitor and evaluate their current and projected emission levels and strive to comply with all state and federal regulations regarding those emissions. SCE&G and GENCO participate in the sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission allowance programs with respect to coal plant emissions and also have constructed additional pollution control equipment at several larger coal-fired electric generating plants. Further, SCE&G is engaged in pre-construction activities of the New Units which are expected to reduce GHG emission levels significantly once they are completed and dispatched by potentially displacing some of the current coal-fired generation sources. These actions are expected to address many of the rules and regulations discussed below.

In December 2009, the EPA issued a final finding that atmospheric concentrations of GHG endanger public health and welfare within the meaning of Section 202(a) of the CAA. The finding, which became effective in January 2010, enabled the EPA to regulate GHG emissions under the CAA. On April 13, 2012, the EPA issued a proposed rule to establish an NSPS for GHG emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. If finalized as proposed, this rule would establish performance standards for new and modified generating units, along with emissions guidelines for existing generating units. This rule would amend the NSPS for electric generating units and establish the first NSPS for GHG emissions. Essentially, the rule would require all new fossil fuel-fired power plants to meet the carbon dioxide emissions profile of a combined cycle natural gas plant. While most new natural gas plants will not be required to include any new technologies, no new coal plants could be constructed without carbon capture and sequestration capabilities. The Company is evaluating the proposed rule, but cannot predict when the rule will become final, if at all, or what conditions it may impose on the Company, if any. The Company expects that any costs incurred to comply with GHG emission requirements will be recoverable through rates.

In 2005, the EPA issued the CAIR, which required the District of Columbia and 28 states, including South Carolina, to reduce nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions in order to attain mandated state levels. CAIR set emission limits to be met in two phases beginning in 2009 and 2015, respectively, for nitrogen oxide and beginning in 2010 and 2015, respectively, for sulfur dioxide. SCE&G and GENCO determined that additional air quality controls would be needed to meet the CAIR requirements. On July 6, 2011 the EPA issued the CSAPR. This rule replaced CAIR and the Clean Air Transport Rule proposed in July 2010 and is aimed at addressing power plant emissions that may contribute to air pollution in other states. CSAPR requires states in the eastern United States to reduce power plant emissions, specifically sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. On December 30, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued an order staying CSAPR and reinstating CAIR pending resolution of an appeal of CSAPR. On August 21, 2012, the Court vacated CSAPR and left CAIR in place. The EPA's petition for rehearing of the Court's order has been denied. Air quality control installations that SCE&G and GENCO have already completed allowed the Company to comply with the reinstated CAIR. The Company will 

38
continue to pursue strategies to comply with all applicable environmental regulations. Any costs incurred to comply with this rule or other rules issued by the EPA in the future are expected to be recoverable through rates.

In June 2010, the EPA issued a final rule for a one-hour ambient air quality standard for sulfur dioxide. This standard may require some of SCE&G's smaller coal-fired units to reduce their sulfur dioxide emissions to levels to be determined by the EPA and/or DHEC. The costs incurred to comply with this standard are expected to be recovered through rates. 

In January 2013, the EPA issued a final rule for an annual ambient air quality standard related to particulate matter smaller than or equal in size to 2.5 microns, significantly revising the existing standard from 15 ug/m3 (micrograms per cubic meter) to 12 ug/m3. The rule takes effect on March 18, 2013. SCE&G anticipates that DHEC monitors throughout South Carolina will indicate compliance with the new standard. While SCE&G does not anticipate a significant impact from this new standard, the costs incurred to comply with this new standard, if any, are expected to be recovered through rates.

Physical effects associated with climate changes could include the impact of possible changes in weather patterns, such as storm frequency and intensity, and the resultant potential damage to the Company's electric system, as well as impacts on employees and customers and on the Company's supply chain and many others. Much of the service territory of SCE&G is subject to the damaging effects of Atlantic and Gulf coast hurricanes and also to the damaging impact of winter ice storms. To help mitigate the financial risks arising from these potential occurrences, SCE&G maintains insurance on certain properties. In addition, SCE&G has collected funds from customers for its storm damage reserve (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). As part of its ongoing operations, SCE&G maintains emergency response and storm preparation plans and teams who receive ongoing training and related simulations in advance of such storms, all in order to allow the Company to protect its assets and to return its systems to normal reliable operation in a timely fashion following any such event.

In April 2012, the EPA's rule containing new standards for mercury and other specified air pollutants became effective. The rule provides up to four years for facilities to meet the standards, and the Company's evaluation of the rule is ongoing. The Company's decision in 2012 to retire certain coal-fired units or convert them to burn natural gas and its project to build the New Units (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements) along with other actions are expected to result in the Company's compliance with the EPA's rule. Any costs incurred to comply with this rule or other rules issued by the EPA in the future are expected to be recoverable through rates.

The EPA is conducting an enforcement initiative against the utilities industry related to the NSR provisions and the NSPS of the CAA. As part of the initiative, many utilities have received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA. In addition, the DOJ, on behalf of EPA, has taken civil enforcement action against several utilities. The primary basis for these actions is the assertion by EPA that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities at their coal-fired power plants constituted “major modifications” which required the installation of costly BACT. Some of the utilities subject to the actions have reached settlement. To date, SCE&G and GENCO have received and responded to Section 114 requests for information related to Canadys, Wateree and Williams Stations. The current state of continued DOJ civil enforcement is the subject of industry-wide speculation, and it cannot be determined whether the Company will be affected by the initiative in the future. The Company believes that any enforcement action relative to its compliance with the CAA would be without merit. The Company further believes that the previously discussed installation of equipment responsive to CAIR will mitigate many of the alleged concerns with NSR.

Water Quality

The CWA provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under the CWA, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved under a national permit program. Discharge permits have been issued and renewed for all of SCE&G's and GENCO's generating units. Concurrent with renewal of these permits, the permitting agency has implemented a more rigorous program of monitoring and controlling discharges, has modified the requirements for new cooling water intake structures, and has required strategies for toxicity reduction in wastewater streams. The EPA has said that it will issue a rule by mid-2013 that modifies requirements for existing cooling water intake structures. The Company is conducting studies and is developing or implementing compliance plans for these initiatives. Congress is expected to consider further amendments to the CWA. Such legislation may include toxicity-based standards as well as limitations to mixing zones. These provisions, if passed, could have a material impact on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company, SCE&G and GENCO. The Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates.

39
Hazardous and Solid Wastes

The EPA has stated its intention to propose, in 2013, new federal regulations affecting the management and disposal of CCRs, such as ash. Such regulations could result in the treatment of some CCRs as hazardous waste and could impose significant costs to utilities, such as SCE&G and GENCO. While the Company cannot predict how extensive the regulations will be, the Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates.

The Nuclear Waste Act required that the United States government accept and permanently dispose of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998. The Nuclear Waste Act also imposed on utilities the primary responsibility for storage of their spent nuclear fuel until the repository is available. SCE&G entered into a Standard Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste with the DOE in 1983. As of December 31, 2012, the federal government has not accepted any spent fuel from Summer Station Unit 1, and it remains unclear when the repository may become available. SCE&G has on-site spent nuclear fuel storage capability in its existing fuel pool until at least 2017, and has commenced construction of a dry cask storage facility to accommodate the spent nuclear fuel output for the life of Summer Station Unit 1. SCE&G may evaluate other technology as it becomes available.

The provisions of CERCLA authorize the EPA to require the clean-up of hazardous waste sites. In addition, the states of South Carolina and North Carolina have similar laws. The Company maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate current and former operations sites that could require environmental clean-up. In addition, regulators from the EPA and other federal or state agencies periodically notify the Company that it may be required to perform or participate in the investigation and remediation of a hazardous waste site. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and remediate each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures may differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and clean-up relate solely to regulated operations. Such amounts are recorded in regulatory assets and amortized, with recovery provided through rates. The Company has assessed the following matters:

Electric Operations

SCE&G maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate its current and former operations sites that could require environmental clean-up. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and remediate each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures could differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and clean-up relate solely to regulated operations. Amounts expected to be recovered through rates are recorded in regulatory assets and, if applicable, amortized over approved amortization periods. Other environmental costs are recorded to expense.

Gas Distribution

SCE&G is responsible for four decommissioned MGP sites in South Carolina which contain residues of by-product chemicals. These sites are in various stages of investigation, remediation and monitoring under work plans approved by DHEC. SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities at these sites will continue until 2016 and will cost an additional $22.2 million. SCE&G expects to recover any cost arising from the remediation of MGP sites through rates. At December 31, 2012, deferred amounts, net of amounts previously recovered through rates and insurance settlements, totaled $38.5 million and are included in regulatory assets.

PSNC Energy is responsible for environmental clean-up at five sites in North Carolina on which MGP residuals are present or suspected. PSNC Energy's actual remediation costs for these sites will depend on a number of factors, such as actual site conditions, third-party claims and recoveries from other PRPs. PSNC Energy has recorded a liability and associated regulatory asset of approximately $3.0 million, the estimated remaining liability at December 31, 2012. PSNC Energy expects to recover through rates any cost allocable to PSNC Energy arising from the remediation of these sites.

REGULATORY MATTERS

Material retail rate proceedings are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.

SCANA is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities and other matters and is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC as to certain acquisitions and other matters.

40
SCANA and its subsidiaries are subject to CFTC jurisdiction to the extent they transact swaps as defined in Dodd-Frank.

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company

SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities and other matters; the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and other matters; and FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings, guarantees of short-term indebtedness, certain acquisitions and other matters.

GENCO is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and is subject to the jurisdiction of FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings, accounting, certain acquisitions and other matters.

Fuel Company is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities.

SCE&G and GENCO are subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act, administered by FERC and DOE, in the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and in the sale of electric energy at wholesale for resale, as well as with respect to licensed hydroelectric projects and certain other matters, including accounting.

Natural gas distribution companies may request annual adjustments to rates to reflect changes in revenues and expenses and changes in investment. Such annual adjustments are subject to certain qualifying criteria and review by the SCPSC.

Effective February 12, 2010, the PHMSA issued a final rule establishing integrity management requirements for gas distribution pipeline systems. SCE&G has developed a plan and procedures to ensure that it will be fully compliant with this rule. SCE&G believes that any additional costs incurred to comply with the rule will be recoverable through rates.

Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated

PSNC Energy is subject to the jurisdiction of the NCUC as to gas rates, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters, and is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities.

The Pipeline Safety Act directed the DOT to establish the Integrity Management Rule for operations of natural gas systems with transmission pipelines located near moderate to high density populations. Of PSNC Energy’s approximately 607 miles of transmission pipeline subject to the Pipeline Safety Act, approximately 58 miles are located within these areas. In 2012, PSNC Energy completed its initial assessments and is required to reinspect these same miles of pipeline approximately every seven years. Through December 2012, PSNC Energy's Integrity Management Program has incurred costs of $8.4 million. Costs totaling $3.2 million have been recovered through rates. The NCUC has authorized continuation of deferral accounting for certain costs incurred to comply with DOT’s pipeline integrity management requirements until resolution of PSNC Energy’s next general rate proceeding. As a result, PSNC Energy has deferred an additional $5.2 million through December 2012 that will be considered for recovery through rates in PSNC Energy's next general rate proceeding.

Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation

CGT is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC as to transportation rates, service, accounting and other matters.

CGT has approximately 73 miles of transmission line that are covered by the Integrity Management Rule of the Pipeline Safety Act. CGT currently estimates the total cost to be $14.4 million for the initial assessments, subsequent remediation and continuing costs relative to the rule through December 2013.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Following are descriptions of the Company’s accounting policies and estimates which are most critical in terms of reporting financial condition or results of operations.

41
Utility Regulation

SCANA’s regulated utilities record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods in accordance with accounting guidance for rate-regulated utilities. In the future, in the event of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment, the Company may no longer meet the criteria of accounting for rate-regulated utilities, and could be required to write off its regulatory assets and liabilities. Such an event could have a material effect on the results of operations, liquidity or financial position of the Company’s Electric Distribution and Gas Distribution segments in the period the write-off would be recorded. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the Company’s regulatory assets and liabilities, including those associated with the Company’s environmental assessment program.

The Company’s generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, the Company could be required to write down its investment in those assets. The Company cannot predict whether any write-downs would be necessary and, if they were, the extent to which they would affect the Company’s results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s net investments in fossil/hydro and nuclear generation assets were approximately $3.0 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively.

Revenue Recognition and Unbilled Revenues

Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers of the Company’s utilities and retail gas operations are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of the actual reading of their electric and gas meters, the Company records estimates for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. Such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of the amount of energy delivered to customers for which they have not yet been billed. Such unbilled revenues reflect consideration of estimated usage by customer class, the effects of different rate schedules, changes in weather and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization or other regulatory provisions of rate structures. The accrual of unbilled revenues in this manner properly matches revenues and related costs. Accounts receivable included unbilled revenues of $189.8 million at December 31, 2012 and $169.1 million at December 31, 2011, compared to total revenues of $4.2 billion and $4.4 billion for the years 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Nuclear Decommissioning

Accounting for decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants involves significant estimates related to costs to be incurred many years into the future. Among the factors that could change SCE&G’s accounting estimates related to decommissioning costs are changes in technology, changes in regulatory and environmental remediation requirements, and changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and timing of cash flows. Changes in any of these estimates could significantly impact the Company’s financial position and cash flows (although changes in such estimates should be earnings-neutral, because these costs are expected to be collected from ratepayers).

Based on a recently completed decommissioning cost study, SCE&G’s two-thirds share of estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs for Summer Station Unit 1, including both the cost of decommissioning plant components that are and are not subject to radioactive contamination, totals $696.8 million, stated in 2012 dollars. Santee Cooper is responsible for decommissioning costs related to its one-third ownership interest in Summer Station Unit 1. The cost estimate assumes that the site would be maintained over a period of 60 years in such a manner as to allow for subsequent decontamination that would permit release for unrestricted use.

Under SCE&G’s method of funding decommissioning costs, amounts collected through rates are invested in insurance policies on the lives of certain Company personnel. SCE&G transfers to an external trust fund the amounts collected through electric rates, insurance proceeds and interest thereon, less expenses. The trusteed asset balance reflects the net cash surrender value of the insurance policies and cash held by the trust. Management intends for the fund, including earnings thereon, to provide for all eventual decommissioning expenditures on an after-tax basis.

Asset Retirement Obligations

The Company accrues for the legal obligation associated with the retirement of long-lived tangible assets that result from their acquisition, construction, development and normal operation in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The obligations are recognized at present value in the period in which they are incurred, and associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as a part of the carrying amount of the related long-lived assets. Because such obligations relate primarily to the Company’s regulated utility operations, their recording has no significant impact on results of operations. As of December 31, 

42
2012, the Company has recorded AROs of $182 million for nuclear plant decommissioning (as discussed above) and AROs of $379 million for other conditional obligations related to generation, transmission and distribution properties, including gas pipelines. All of the amounts recorded in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance are based upon estimates which are subject to varying degrees of imprecision, particularly since such payments may be made many years in the future. Changes in these estimates will be recorded over time; however, these changes in estimates are not expected to materially impact results of operations so long as the regulatory framework for the utilities remains in place.

Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

The Company recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension plan as an asset or liability and changes in funded status as a component of net periodic benefit cost or other comprehensive income, net of tax, or as a regulatory asset as required by accounting guidance. The Company’s plan is adequately funded under current regulations. Accounting guidance requires the use of several assumptions, the selection of which has an impact on the resulting pension cost recorded. Among the more sensitive assumptions are those surrounding discount rates and expected returns on assets. Net pension cost of $28.5 million recorded in 2012 reflects the use of a 5.25% discount rate, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and an assumed 8.25% long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company believes that these assumptions were, and that the resulting pension cost amount was, reasonable. For purposes of comparison, using a discount rate of 5.00% in 2012 would have increased the Company’s pension cost by $1.5 million. Further, had the assumed long-term rate of return on assets been 8.00%, the Company’s pension cost for 2012 would have increased by $1.8 million.

The following information with respect to pension assets (and returns thereon) should also be noted.

The Company determines the fair value of a large majority of its pension assets utilizing market quotes or derives them from modeling techniques that incorporate market data. Only a small portion of assets are valued using less transparent (“Level 3”) methods.

In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical performance, targeted allocation amounts and expected payment terms. As of the beginning of 2012, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 4.2%, 6.8%, 8.6% and 9.3%, respectively. The 2012 expected long-term rate of return of 8.25% was based on a target asset allocation of 65% with equity managers and 35% with fixed income managers. Management regularly reviews such allocations and periodically rebalances the portfolio when considered appropriate. As of the beginning of 2013, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 7.5%, 6.3%, 8.8% and 9.7%, respectively. For 2013, the expected rate of return is 8.00%.

Due to turmoil in the financial markets and the resultant declines in plan asset values in the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded significant amounts of pension cost in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 compared to the pension income recorded previously. However, in February 2009, SCE&G was granted accounting orders by the SCPSC which allowed it to mitigate a significant portion of this pension cost by deferring as a regulatory asset the amount of pension expense above the level that was included in then current cost of service rates for its retail electric and gas distribution regulated operations. In July 2010, upon implementation of retail electric base rates, SCE&G began deferring as a regulatory asset all pension cost related to its regulated retail electric operations that otherwise would have been charged to expense. In November 2010, upon the updated gas rates becoming effective under the RSA, SCE&G began deferring as a regulatory asset all pension cost related to its regulated natural gas operations that otherwise would have been charged to expense.

As part of the December 2012 rate order, deferred pension costs related to electric operations of approximately $63 million will be amortized over approximately 30 years, and current pension expense for electric operations will be recovered through a pension cost rider starting in January 2013.

The pension trust is adequately funded under current regulations, and no contributions have been required since 1997. Management does not anticipate the need to make pension contributions until after 2014.

The Company accounts for the cost of its postretirement medical and life insurance benefit plans in a similar manner to that used for its defined benefit pension plan. This plan is unfunded, so no assumptions related to rate of return on assets impact the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. The Company used a discount rate of 5.35%, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and recorded a net cost of $19.7 million for 2012. Had the selected discount rate been 5.10% (25 basis points lower than the discount rate referenced above), the expense for 2012 would have been $0.5 million higher. Because the plan provisions include “caps” on company per capita costs, healthcare cost inflation rate assumptions do not materially impact the net expense recorded. 

43
NEW NUCLEAR CONSTRUCTION MATTERS

SCE&G and Santee Cooper are parties to construction and operating agreements in which they agreed to be joint owners, and share operating costs and generation output, of two 1,117 MW nuclear generation units currently being constructed at the site of Summer Station, with SCE&G responsible for 55% of the cost and receiving 55% of the output, and Santee Cooper responsible for and receiving the remaining 45%. Under these agreements, SCE&G has the primary responsibility for oversight of the construction of the New Units and will be responsible for the operation of the New Units as they come online.

SCE&G, on behalf of itself and as agent for Santee Cooper, entered into the EPC Contract with the Consortium for the design, procurement and construction of the New Units. SCE&G's share of the estimated cash outlays (future value, excluding AFC) totals approximately $6 billion for plant costs and related transmission infrastructure costs, which costs are projected based on historical one-year and five-year escalation rates as required by the SCPSC.

On March 30, 2012, the NRC approved and issued COLs for the New Units. On April 19, 2012, SCE&G, on behalf of itself and as agent for Santee Cooper, issued a Full Notice to Proceed to the Consortium for construction of the New Units, allowing for the commencement of safety related aspects of the project. The first New Unit is scheduled for substantial completion in 2017, and the second New Unit is scheduled for substantial completion in 2018.

In May 2011, the SCPSC approved an updated capital cost schedule sought by SCE&G that, among other matters, incorporated then-identifiable additional capital costs of $173.9 million (SCE&G's portion in 2007 dollars). 

The parties to the EPC Contract have established both informal and formal dispute resolution procedures in order to resolve issues that arise during the course of constructing a project of this magnitude. During the course of activities under the EPC Contract, issues have materialized that impact project budget and schedule. Claims specifically relating to COL delays, design modifications of the shield building and certain pre-fabricated structural modules for the New Units and unanticipated rock conditions at the site resulted in assertions of contractual entitlement to recover additional costs to be incurred. On July 11, 2012, SCE&G and the Consortium finalized an agreement which set SCE&G's portion of the costs for these specific claims at approximately $138 million (in 2007 dollars). As described below, SCE&G anticipates that these additional costs, as well as other costs that may be identified from time to time, will be recoverable through rates.

In November 2012, the SCPSC approved an updated construction schedule and additional updated capital costs of $278 million (SCE&G's portion in 2007 dollars). The November 2012 order approved additional identifiable capital costs of approximately $1 million (SCE&G's portion in 2007 dollars) related to new federal healthcare laws, information security measures, and certain minor design modifications; approximately $8 million (SCE&G's portion in 2007 dollars) related to transmission infrastructure; and approximately $132 million (SCE&G's portion in 2007 dollars) related to additional labor for the oversight of the New Units during construction and for preparing to operate the New Units, and facilities and information technology systems required to support the New Units and their personnel. In addition, the order approved revised substantial completion dates for the New Units based on the March 30, 2012 issuance of the COL and the above amounts agreed upon by SCE&G and the Consortium in July 2012 to resolve claims for costs related to COL delays, design modifications of the shield building and certain pre-fabricated structural modules for the New Units and unanticipated rock conditions at the site. Thereafter, two parties filed separate petitions requesting that the SCPSC reconsider its November 2012 order. On December 12, 2012, the SCPSC denied both petitions.

When the NRC issued the COLs for the New Units, two of the conditions that it imposed were requiring inspection and testing of certain components of the New Units' passive cooling system, and requiring the development of strategies to respond to extreme natural events resulting in the loss of power at the New Units. In addition, the NRC directed the Office of New Reactors to issue to SCE&G an order requiring enhanced, reliable spent fuel pool instrumentation, as well as a request for information related to emergency plant staffing. These conditions and requirements are responsive to the NRC's Near-Term Task Force report titled “Recommendations for Enhancing Reactor Safety in the 21st Century.” This report was prepared in the wake of the March 2011 earthquake-generated tsunami, which severely damaged several nuclear generating units and their back-up cooling systems in Japan. SCE&G is evaluating the impact these conditions and requirements impose on the construction and operation of the New Units. SCE&G cannot predict what additional regulatory or other outcomes may be implemented in the United States, or how such initiatives would impact SCE&G's existing Summer Station or the construction or operation of the New Units.

In February 2013, work began on the reinforcing bar reconfiguration in the Unit 2 nuclear island elevator pit and sump areas. The initial pouring of the Unit 2 nuclear island basemat could take place in the first quarter of 2013 following the 

44
completion of this work and based upon an expedited approval by the NRC staff. It is not anticipated that the resolution of this issue will cause a delay in the commercial operation of the New Units in 2017 and 2018.

As previously reported, SCE&G has been advised by Santee Cooper that it is reviewing certain aspects of its capital improvement program and long-term power supply plan, including the level of its participation in the New Units. Santee Cooper has been engaged in discussions with several parties that may result in one or more of them executing a power purchase agreement or acquiring a portion of Santee Cooper's ownership interest in the New Units. SCE&G is unable to predict whether any change in Santee Cooper's ownership interest or the addition of new joint owners will increase project costs or delay the commercial operation dates of the New Units. Any such project cost increase or delay could be material.

OTHER MATTERS

Financial Regulatory Reform

In July 2010, Dodd-Frank became law. This law provides for substantial additional regulation of over-the-counter and security-based derivative instruments, among other things, and requires numerous rule-makings by the CFTC and the SEC to implement. The Company has determined that it meets the end-user exception in Dodd-Frank, with the lowest level of required regulatory reporting burden imposed by this law. The Company is currently complying with these enacted regulations and intends to comply with regulations enacted in the future, but cannot predict when the final regulations will be issued or what requirements they will impose.

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions

Although SCANA invests in securities and business ventures, it does not hold significant investments in unconsolidated special purpose entities. SCANA does not engage in off-balance sheet financing or similar transactions, although it is party to incidental operating leases in the normal course of business, generally for office space, furniture, vehicles, equipment and rail cars.

Claims and Litigation

For a description of claims and litigation see Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK