PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

CORPORATE STRUCTURE

SCANA, a holding company, owns the following direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries:

SCE&G is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to retail and wholesale customers and the purchase, sale and transportation of natural gas to retail customers.

GENCO owns Williams Station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G.

Fuel Company acquires, owns, provides financing for and sells at cost to SCE&G nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels and emission and other environmental allowances.

PSNC Energy purchases, sells and transports natural gas to retail customers.

CGT transports natural gas in South Carolina and southeastern Georgia.

SCI provides fiber optic communications, ethernet services and data center facilities and builds, manages and leases communications towers in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia.

SEMI markets natural gas, primarily in the Southeast, and provides energy-related risk management services. SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, markets natural gas in Georgia’s retail market.

ServiceCare, Inc. provides service contracts on home appliances and heating and air conditioning units.

SCANA Services, Inc. provides administrative, management and other services to SCANA’s subsidiaries and business units.

SCANA is incorporated in South Carolina, as is each of its direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries. In addition to the subsidiaries above, SCANA owns one other energy-related company that is insignificant.

ORGANIZATION

SCANA is a South Carolina corporation created in 1984 as a holding company. SCANA holds, directly or indirectly, all of the capital stock of each of its subsidiaries. SCANA and its subsidiaries had full-time, permanent employees as of February 20, 2013 and 2012 of 5,842 and 5,889, respectively. SCE&G is an operating public utility incorporated in 1924 as a South Carolina corporation. SCE&G had full-time, permanent employees as of February 20, 2013 and 2012 of 3,213 and 3,202, respectively.

INVESTOR INFORMATION

SCANA’s and SCE&G’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available free of charge through SCANA’s internet website at www.scana.com (which is not intended as an active hyperlink; the information on SCANA's website is not part of this or any other report filed with the SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed or furnished. Information on SCANA’s website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC.

SEGMENTS OF BUSINESS

For information with respect to major segments of business, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G (Note 12). All such information is incorporated herein by reference.

SCANA does not directly own or operate any significant physical properties. SCANA, through its subsidiaries, is engaged in the functionally distinct operations described below.

5
Regulated Utilities

SCE&G is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 670,000 customers and the purchase, sale and transportation of natural gas to approximately 323,000 customers (each as of December 31, 2012). SCE&G’s business experiences seasonal fluctuations, with generally higher sales of electricity during the summer and winter months because of air conditioning and heating requirements, and generally higher sales of natural gas during the winter months due to heating requirements. SCE&G’s electric service territory extends into 24 counties covering nearly 17,000 square miles in the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina. The service area for natural gas encompasses all or part of 35 counties in South Carolina and covers approximately 22,600 square miles. More than 3.2 million persons live in the counties where SCE&G conducts its business. Resale customers include municipalities, electric cooperatives, other investor-owned utilities, registered marketers and federal and state electric agencies. Predominant industries served by SCE&G include chemicals, educational services, paper products, food products, lumber and wood products, health services, textile manufacturing, rubber and miscellaneous plastic products and fabricated metal products.

GENCO owns Williams Station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G.

Fuel Company acquires, owns, provides financing for and sells at cost to SCE&G nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels and emission and other environmental allowances.

PSNC Energy purchases, sells and transports natural gas to approximately 497,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers (as of December 31, 2012). PSNC Energy serves 28 franchised counties covering 12,000 square miles in North Carolina. The predominant industries served by PSNC Energy include educational services, food products, health services, chemicals, non-woven textiles and construction-related materials.

CGT operates as an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company regulated by FERC. CGT operates in southeastern Georgia and in South Carolina and has interconnections with Southern Natural at Port Wentworth, Georgia and with Southern LNG, Inc. at Elba Island, near Savannah, Georgia. CGT also has interconnections with Southern Natural in Aiken County, South Carolina, and with Transco in Cherokee and Spartanburg counties, South Carolina. CGT’s customers include SCE&G (which uses natural gas for electricity generation and for gas distribution to retail customers), SEMI (which markets natural gas to industrial and sale for resale customers, primarily in the Southeast), municipalities, county gas authorities, federal and state agencies, marketers, power generators and industrial customers primarily engaged in the manufacturing or processing of ceramics, paper, metal, and textiles.

Nonregulated Businesses

SEMI markets natural gas primarily in the southeast and provides energy-related risk management services. SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, sells natural gas to approximately 450,000 customers (as of December 31, 2012, and includes approximately 72,000 customers in its regulated division) in Georgia’s natural gas market. SCANA Energy’s contract to serve as Georgia’s regulated provider of natural gas has been renewed by the GPSC through August 31, 2014. SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents an approximately 30% share of the approximately 1.5 million customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in Georgia.

SCI owns and operates a 500-mile fiber optic telecommunications network and ethernet network and data center facilities in South Carolina. Through a joint venture, SCI has an interest in an additional 2,280 miles of fiber in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. SCI also provides tower site construction, management and rental services and sells towers in South Carolina and North Carolina. SCI leases fiber optic capacity, data center space and tower space to certain affiliates at market rates.

The preceding Corporate Structure section describes other businesses owned by SCANA.

COMPETITION

For a discussion of the impact of competition, see the Overview section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries, including SCE&G, require cash to fund operations, construction programs and dividend payments to SCANA. SCANA’s nonregulated subsidiaries require cash to fund operations and dividend payments to 

6
SCANA. To replace existing plant investment and to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas, SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries must attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of the regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief, when requested.

For a discussion of various rate matters and their impact on capital requirements, see the Regulatory Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

During the period 2013-2015, SCANA and SCE&G expect to meet capital requirements through internally generated funds, issuance of equity and short-term and long-term borrowings. SCANA and SCE&G expect that they have or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet their projected cash requirements for the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future.

For a discussion of cash requirements for construction and nuclear fuel expenditures, contractual cash obligations, financing limits, financing transactions and other related information, see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

SCANA’s ratios of earnings to fixed charges were 2.93, 2.87, 2.92, 2.84 and 3.04 for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. SCE&G’s ratios of earnings to fixed charges were 3.29, 3.13, 3.18, 3.25 and 3.51 for the same periods.

ELECTRIC OPERATIONS

Electric Sales

SCE&G’s sales of electricity and margins earned from the sale of electricity by customer classification as percentages of electric revenues for 2011 and 2012 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales for resale include sales to three municipalities and two electric cooperatives. Short-term system sales during 2012 include sales to three investor-owned utilities or registered marketers. During 2011, short-term system sales included sales to seven investor-owned utilities or registered marketers, as well as three federal/state electric agencies.

During 2012 SCE&G recorded a net increase of approximately 6,000 electric customers (growth rate of 0.9%), increasing its total electric customers to approximately 670,000 at year end.

For the period 2013-2015, SCE&G projects total territorial kWh sales of electricity to increase 0.7% annually (assuming normal weather), total retail sales growth of 0.7% annually (assuming normal weather), total electric customer base to increase 1.2% annually and territorial peak load (summer, in MW) to increase 1.4% annually. SCE&G projects retail kWh sales growth of 0.4% and customer growth of 0.7% from 2012 to 2013. SCE&G’s goal is to maintain a planning reserve margin of between 14% and 20%, however, weather and other factors affect territorial peak load and can cause actual generating capacity on any given day to fall below the reserve margin goal.

7
Electric Interconnections

SCE&G purchases all of the electric generation of GENCO’s Williams Station under a Unit Power Sales Agreement which has been approved by FERC. Williams Station has a net generating capacity (summer rating) of 605 MW.

SCE&G’s transmission system, which extends over a large part of the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina, interconnects with Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, Santee Cooper, Southern Company and the Southeastern Power Administration’s Clarks Hill (Thurmond) Project. SCE&G is a member of VACAR, one of several geographic divisions within the SERC. SERC is one of eight regional entities with delegated authority from NERC for the purpose of proposing and enforcing reliability standards approved by FERC. SERC is divided geographically into five diverse sub-regions that are identified as Central, Delta, Gateway, Southeastern and VACAR. The regional entities and all members of NERC work to safeguard the reliability of the bulk power systems throughout North America. For a discussion of the impact certain legislative and regulatory initiatives may have on SCE&G’s transmission system, see Electric Operations within the Overview section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

Fuel Costs and Fuel Supply

The average cost of various fuels and the weighted average cost of all fuels (including oil) for the years 2010-2012 follow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The sources and percentages of total MWh generation by each category of fuel for the years 2010-2012 and the estimates for the years 2013-2015 follow: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In 2012, six of the seven fossil fuel-fired plants used coal. Unit trains and, in some cases, trucks and barges delivered coal to these plants. As further described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, SCE&G retired one generating unit in 2012 and intends to retire certain other coal-fired generating units by 2018, subject to future developments in environmental regulations, among other matters. In addition, another unit which was fueled by coal in 2012 will be fueled exclusively with natural gas in 2013 and subsequent years until it is ultimately retired.

Coal is primarily obtained through long-term supply contracts. Long-term contracts exist with suppliers located in eastern Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia. These contracts provide for approximately 2.3 million tons annually. Sulfur restrictions on the contract coal range from 1% to 2%. These contracts expire at various times through 2015. Spot market purchases may occur when needed or when prices are believed to be favorable.

8
SCANA and SCE&G believe that SCE&G’s operations comply with all applicable regulations relating to the discharge of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide. See additional discussion at Environmental Matters in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

SCE&G, for itself and as agent for Santee Cooper, and Westinghouse are parties to a fuel alliance agreement and contracts for fuel fabrication and related services. Under these contracts, Westinghouse will supply enriched nuclear fuel assemblies for Summer Station Unit 1 and the New Units. Westinghouse will be SCE&G’s exclusive provider of such fuel assemblies on a cost-plus basis. The fuel assemblies to be delivered under the contracts are expected to supply the nuclear fuel requirements of Summer Station Unit 1 and the New Units through 2033. SCE&G is dependent upon Westinghouse for providing fuel assemblies for the new AP1000 passive reactors in the New Units in the current and anticipated future absence of other commercially viable sources. The Consortium currently provides maintenance and engineering support to Summer Station Unit 1 under a services alliance arrangement, and SCE&G has also contracted for the Consortium to provide similar support services to the New Units upon their completion and commencement of commercial operation.

In addition, SCE&G has contracts covering its nuclear fuel needs for uranium, conversion services and enrichment services. These contracts have varying expiration dates through 2024. SCE&G believes that it will be able to renew contracts as they expire or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services and that sufficient capacity for nuclear fuel supplies and processing exists to preclude the impairment of normal operations of its nuclear generating units.

SCE&G can store spent nuclear fuel on-site until at least 2017 and has commenced construction of a dry cask storage facility to accommodate the spent fuel output for the life of Summer Station Unit 1. SCE&G may evaluate other technology as it becomes available. In addition, Summer Station Unit 1 has sufficient on-site storage capacity to permit storage of the entire reactor core in the event that complete unloading should become desirable or necessary. For information about the contract with the DOE regarding disposal of spent fuel, see Hazardous and Solid Wastes within the Environmental Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

GAS OPERATIONS

Gas Sales-Regulated

Regulated sales of natural gas by customer classification as a percent of total regulated gas revenues sold or transported for 2011 and 2012 were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the three-year period 2013-2015, SCANA projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in MMBTUs to increase 1.2% annually (assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in MMBTU sales include residential of 1.7%, commercial of 0.9% and industrial of 1.0%.

For the three-year period 2013-2015, SCE&G projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in MMBTUs to increase 0.7% annually (assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in MMBTU sales include residential of 1.0%, commercial of 0.3% and industrial of 1.5%.

For the three-year period 2013-2015, SCANA’s and SCE&G’s total consolidated regulated natural gas customer base is projected to increase annually 2.0% and 1.8%, respectively. During 2012 SCANA recorded a net increase of approximately 15,000 regulated gas customers (growth rate of 1.9%), increasing its regulated gas customers to approximately 819,000. Of this increase, SCE&G recorded a net increase of approximately 5,700 gas customers (growth rate of 1.8%), increasing its total gas customers to approximately 322,600 (as of December 31, 2012).

Demand for gas changes primarily due to weather and the price relationship between gas and alternate fuels.

9
Gas Cost, Supply and Curtailment Plans

South Carolina

SCE&G purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers in both the spot and long-term markets. The gas is delivered to South Carolina through firm transportation agreements with Southern Natural (expiring in 2014 and 2017), Transco (expiring in 2016 and 2017) and CGT (expiring in 2014, 2023 and 2026). The maximum daily volume of gas that SCE&G is entitled to transport under these contracts is 212,194 MMBTU from Southern Natural, 64,652 MMBTU from Transco and 424,429 MMBTU from CGT. Additional natural gas volumes may be delivered to SCE&G’s system as capacity is available through interruptible transportation.

The daily volume of gas that SEMI is entitled to transport under service agreements with CGT (expiring in 2013, 2016, 2017 and 2023) on a firm basis is 92,650 MMBTU (of which 10,035 MMBTU relates to an agreement expiring March 31, 2013).

SCE&G purchased natural gas, including fixed transportation, at an average cost of $4.73 per MCF during 2012 and $5.88 per MCF during 2011.

SCE&G was allocated 5,437 MMCF of natural gas storage capacity on Southern Natural and Transco. Approximately 3,877 MMCF of gas were in storage on December 31, 2012. To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, SCE&G supplements its supplies of natural gas with two LNG liquefaction and storage facilities. The LNG plants are capable of storing the liquefied equivalent of 1,880 MMCF of natural gas. Approximately 1,655 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage on December 31, 2012.

North Carolina

PSNC Energy purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers on a short-term basis at current prices and on a long-term basis for reliability assurance at index prices plus a reservation charge. Transco and Dominion deliver the gas to North Carolina through transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging through 2023. On a peak day, PSNC Energy may transport daily volumes of gas under these contracts on a firm basis of 290,743 MMBTU from Transco and 7,331 MMBTU from Dominion.

PSNC Energy purchased natural gas, including fixed transportation, at an average cost of $4.65 per MMBTU during 2012 compared to $5.54 per MMBTU during 2011.

To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, PSNC Energy supplements its supplies of natural gas with underground natural gas storage services and LNG peaking services. Underground natural gas storage service agreements with Dominion, Columbia Gas Transmission, Transco and Spectra Energy provide for storage capacity of approximately 13,000 MMCF. Approximately 11,000 MMCF of gas were in storage under these agreements at December 31, 2012. In addition, PSNC Energy’s LNG facility can store the liquefied equivalent of 1,000 MMCF of natural gas with regasification capability of approximately 100 MMCF per day. Approximately 1,000 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage at December 31, 2012. LNG storage service agreements with Transco, Cove Point LNG and Pine Needle LNG provide for 1,300 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of storage space. Approximately 1,200 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) were in storage under these agreements at December 31, 2012.

SCANA and SCE&G believe that supplies under long-term contracts and supplies available for spot market purchase are adequate to meet existing customer demands and to accommodate growth.

Gas Marketing-Nonregulated

SEMI markets natural gas and provides energy-related risk management services primarily in the Southeast. In addition, SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, markets natural gas to approximately 450,000 customers (as of December 31, 2012) in Georgia’s natural gas market. SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents an approximate 30% share of the approximately 1.5 million customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state.

10
Risk Management

SCANA and SCE&G have established policies and procedures and risk limits to control the level of market, credit, liquidity and operational and administrative risks assumed by them. SCANA’s Board of Directors has delegated to a Risk Management Committee the authority to set risk limits, establish policies and procedures for risk management and measurement, and to oversee and review the risk management process and infrastructure for SCANA and each of its subsidiaries. The Risk Management Committee, which is comprised of certain officers, including a Risk Management Officer and senior officers, apprises the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors with regard to the management of risk and brings to the Audit Committee's attention significant areas of concern. Written policies define the physical and financial transactions that are approved, as well as the authorization requirements and limits for transactions.

REGULATION

SCANA is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities and other matters and is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC as to certain acquisitions and other matters.

SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities and other matters; the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and other matters; and FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings and guarantees of short-term debt, certain acquisitions and other matters.

GENCO is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and is subject to the jurisdiction of FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings, accounting, certain acquisitions and other matters.

Fuel Company is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities.

PSNC Energy is subject to the jurisdiction of the NCUC as to gas rates, service, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters, and is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities.

CGT is subject to the jurisdiction of FERC as to transportation rates, service, accounting and other matters.

SCANA Energy is regulated by the GPSC through its certification as a natural gas marketer in Georgia and specifically is subject to the jurisdiction of the GPSC as to retail prices for customers served under its regulated provider contract.

SCE&G and GENCO are subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act, administered by FERC and DOE, in the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and in the sale of electric energy at wholesale for resale, as well as with respect to licensed hydroelectric projects and certain other matters, including accounting. See the Regulatory Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

SCANA and its subsidiaries are subject to CFTC jurisdiction to the extent they transact swaps as defined in Dodd-Frank.

For a discussion of legislative and regulatory initiatives being implemented that will affect SCE&G’s transmission system, see Electric Operations within the Overview section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.

SCE&G has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness and to assume liabilities as a guarantor(pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue unsecured promissory notes, commercial paper and direct loans in amounts not to exceed $1.6 billion outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less, and may enter into guaranty agreements in favor of lenders, bankers, and dealers in commercial paper in amounts not to exceed $600 million. GENCO has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness not to exceed $150 million outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less. The authority described herein will expire in October 2014.

SCE&G is presently operating the Saluda hydroelectric project under an annual license (scheduled to expire in August) while its long-term re-licensing application is being reviewed by FERC.

11
SCE&G holds licenses under the Federal Power Act for each of its hydroelectric projects. The licenses expire as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At the termination of a license under the Federal Power Act, FERC may extend or issue a new license to the previous licensee, or may issue a license to another applicant, or the federal government may take over the related project. If the federal government takes over a project or if FERC issues a license to another applicant, the federal government or the new licensee, as the case may be, must pay the previous licensee an amount equal to its net investment in the project, not to exceed fair value, plus severance damages.

SCE&G is subject to regulation by the NRC with respect to the ownership, construction, operation and decommissioning of its currently operating and planned nuclear generating facilities. The NRC’s jurisdiction encompasses broad supervisory and regulatory powers over the construction and operation of nuclear reactors, including matters of health and safety, antitrust considerations and environmental impact. In addition, the Federal Emergency Management Agency reviews, in conjunction with the NRC, certain aspects of emergency planning relating to the operation of nuclear plants.

The RSA allows natural gas distribution companies in South Carolina to request annual adjustments to rates to reflect changes in revenues and expenses and changes in investment. Such annual adjustments are subject to certain qualifying criteria and review by the SCPSC. 

RATE MATTERS

For a discussion of the impact of various rate matters, see the Regulatory Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G, and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

SCE&G's retail electric rates for its residential and certain small commercial customers include an eWNA approved by the SCPSC, which is in effect year round and which largely mitigates the impact of weather on electric margins. In connection with a December 2012 rate order, SCE&G agreed to complete a study of alternative structures for eWNA by June 30, 2013, which study may be used to modify or terminate eWNA in the future.

SCE&G’s retail electric rates include certain costs associated with the Company’s DSM Programs as authorized by the SCPSC. More specifically, these rates include the costs and lost net margin revenue associated with DSM Programs, along with an incentive for investing in such programs. 

Under the BLRA, SCE&G is allowed to file revised rates with the SCPSC each year to incorporate the financing cost of any incremental construction work in progress incurred for new nuclear generation. Requested rate adjustments are based on SCE&G’s updated cost of debt and capital structure and on an allowed return on common equity of 11%.

In May 2011 and in November 2012, the SCPSC approved updated capital cost schedules sought by SCE&G that, among other matters, incorporated then-identifiable additional capital costs and revised substantial completion dates for the New Units, and included amounts to resolve certain claims. Details of these SCPSC approvals are further described in Notes 2 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G. 

In December 2012, the SCPSC approved a 4.23% overall increase in SCE&G's retail electric base rates and authorized SCE&G an allowed return on common equity of 10.25% (related to non-BLRA expenditures). The SCPSC also approved a mid-period reduction to the cost of fuel component in rates, as well as a reduction in the DSM Programs component rider to retail rates, among other things. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G for additional details. 

SCE&G’s gas rate schedules for its residential, small commercial and small industrial customers include a WNA approved by the SCPSC, which is in effect for bills rendered for billing cycles in November through April. The WNA increases 

12
tariff rates if weather is warmer than normal and decreases rates if weather is colder than normal. The WNA does not change the seasonality of gas revenues, but reduces fluctuations in revenues and earnings caused by abnormal weather.

PSNC Energy is authorized by the NCUC to utilize a CUT which allows PSNC Energy to adjust its base rates semi-annually for residential and commercial customers based on average per customer consumption, whether impacted by weather or other factors.

Fuel Cost Recovery Procedures

The SCPSC’s fuel cost recovery procedure determines the fuel component in SCE&G’s retail electric base rates annually based on projected fuel costs for the ensuing 12-month period, adjusted for any over-collection or under-collection from the preceding 12-month period. The statutory definition of fuel costs includes certain variable environmental costs, such as ammonia, lime, limestone and catalysts consumed in reducing or treating emissions. The definition also includes the cost of emission allowances used for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury and particulates. SCE&G may request a formal proceeding concerning its fuel costs at any time. SCPSC proceedings related to SCE&G's cost of fuel component are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

SCE&G’s natural gas tariffs include a PGA clause that provides for the recovery of actual gas costs incurred, including transportation costs and costs related to hedging natural gas purchasing activities. SCE&G’s gas rates are calculated using a methodology which may adjust the cost of gas monthly based on a 12-month rolling average. SCPSC proceedings related to SCE&G's natural gas tariffs are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

PSNC Energy is subject to a Rider D rate mechanism which allows it to recover from customers all prudently incurred gas costs and certain uncollectible expenses related to gas cost. The Rider D rate mechanism also allows it to recover, in any manner authorized by the NCUC, losses on negotiated gas and transportation sales.

PSNC Energy’s rates are established using a benchmark cost of gas approved by the NCUC, which may be adjusted periodically to reflect changes in the market price of natural gas. PSNC Energy revises its tariffs with the NCUC as necessary to track these changes and accounts for any over- or under-collections of the delivered cost of gas in its deferred accounts for subsequent rate consideration. The NCUC reviews PSNC Energy’s gas purchasing practices annually. In addition, PSNC Energy utilizes a CUT which allows it to adjust its base rates semi-annually for residential and commercial customers based on average per customer consumption. NCUC proceedings related to PSNC Energy's rates are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Federal and state authorities have imposed environmental regulations and standards relating primarily to air emissions, wastewater discharges and solid, toxic and hazardous waste management. Developments in these areas may require that equipment and facilities be modified, supplemented or replaced. The ultimate effect of these regulations and standards upon existing and proposed operations cannot be predicted. For a more complete discussion of how these regulations and standards impact SCANA and SCE&G, see the Environmental Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

OTHER MATTERS

For a discussion of SCE&G’s insurance coverage for Summer Station Unit 1 and the New Units, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS