Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Results of Operations

Non-GAAP Measures

The following discussion includes organic sales, total segment operating earnings and margin, Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS, Adjusted Effective Tax Rate and free cash flow, which are non-GAAP measures. See Supplemental Sales Information for a reconciliation of reported sales to organic sales and a discussion of why we believe this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors. See Results of Operations for a reconciliation of income before income taxes to total segment operating earnings and margin and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors. See Results of Operations for a reconciliation of income from continuing operations, diluted EPS from continuing operations and effective tax rate to Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate, respectively, and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to investors. See Financial Condition for a reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities to free cash flow and a discussion of why we believe this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors.

Overview

Rockwell Automation, Inc., a leader in industrial automation and information, makes its customers more productive and the world more sustainable. Overall demand for our products, solutions and services is driven by: 

•investments in manufacturing, including upgrades, modifications and expansions of existing facilities or production lines and new facilities or production lines;

•investments in basic materials production capacity, which may be related to commodity pricing levels;

•our customers’ needs for faster time to market, lower total cost of ownership, improved asset utilization and optimization, and enterprise risk management;

•our customers’ needs to continuously improve quality, safety and sustainability;

•industry factors that include our customers’ new product introductions, demand for our customers’ products or services and the regulatory and competitive environments in which our customers operate;

•levels of global industrial production and capacity utilization;

•regional factors that include local political, social, regulatory and economic circumstances; and

•the spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules.

Long-term Strategy

Our vision of being the most valued global provider of innovative industrial automation and information products, solutions and services is supported by our growth and performance strategy, which seeks to:

•achieve organic sales growth in excess of the automation market by expanding our served market and strengthening our competitive differentiation;

•diversify our sales streams by broadening our portfolio of products, solutions and services, expanding our global presence and serving a wider range of industries and applications;

•grow market share by gaining new customers and by capturing a larger share of existing customers’ spending;

•enhance our market access by building our channel capability and partner network;

•acquire companies that serve as catalysts to organic growth by adding complementary technology, expanding our served market, or enhancing our domain expertise or market access;

•deploy human and financial resources to strengthen our technology leadership and our intellectual capital business model;

•continuously improve quality and customer experience; and

•drive annual cost productivity.

By implementing the above strategy, we seek to achieve our long-term financial goals, including above-market organic sales growth, EPS growth above sales growth, return on invested capital in excess of 20 percent and free cash flow equal to about 100 percent of Adjusted Income.

13
Our customers face the challenge of remaining globally cost competitive and automation can help them achieve their productivity and sustainability objectives. Our value proposition is to help our customers reduce time to market, lower total cost of ownership, improve asset utilization and manage enterprise risks.

Differentiation through Technology Innovation and Domain Expertise

We seek a technology leadership position in industrial automation. We believe that our three platforms - integrated architecture, intelligent motor control and solutions and services - provide the foundation for a long-term sustainable competitive advantage.

Our integrated control and information architecture, with Logix at its core, is an important differentiator. We are the only automation provider that can support discrete, process, batch, safety, motion and power control on the same hardware platform with the same software programming environment. Our integrated architecture is scalable with standard open communications protocols making it easier for customers to implement it more cost effectively.

Intelligent motor control is one of our core competencies and an important aspect of an automation system. These products and solutions enhance the availability, efficiency and safe operation of our customers' critical and most energy-intensive plant assets. Our intelligent motor control offering can be integrated seamlessly with the Logix architecture. 

Domain expertise refers to the industry and application knowledge required to deliver solutions and services that support customers through the entire life cycle of their automation investment. The combination of industry-specific domain expertise of our people with our innovative technologies enables us to help our customers solve their manufacturing and business challenges. 

Global Expansion

As the manufacturing world continues to expand, we must be able to meet our customers’ needs around the world. Approximately 60 percent of our employees and 45 percent of our sales are outside the U.S. We continue to expand our footprint in emerging markets.

As we expand in markets with considerable growth potential and shift our global footprint, we expect to continue to broaden the portfolio of products, solutions and services that we provide to our customers in these regions. We have made significant investments to globalize our manufacturing, product development and customer-facing resources in order to be closer to our customers throughout the world. The emerging markets of Asia Pacific, including China and India, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe and Africa are projected to be the fastest growing over the long term, due to higher levels of infrastructure investment and the growing middle-class population. We believe that increased demand for consumer products in these markets will lead to manufacturing investment and provide us with additional growth opportunities in the future.

Enhanced Market Access

Over the past decade, our investments in technology and globalization have enabled us to expand our addressed market to over $90 billion. Our process initiative has been the most important contributor to this expansion and remains our largest growth opportunity. Logix is the technology foundation that enabled us to become an industry leader for process applications. We complement that with a growing global network of engineers and partners to provide solutions to process customers.

OEMs represent another area of addressed market expansion and an important growth opportunity. To remain competitive, OEMs need to find the optimal balance of machine cost and performance while reducing their time to market. Our scalable integrated architecture and intelligent motor control offerings, along with design productivity tools and our motion and safety products, can assist OEMs in addressing these business needs.

We have developed a powerful network of channel partners, technology partners and commercial partners that act as amplifiers to our internal capabilities and enable us to serve our customers’ needs around the world.

Broad Range of Industries Served

We apply our knowledge of manufacturing applications to help customers solve their business challenges. We serve customers in a wide range of industries, including consumer products, resource-based and transportation.

Our consumer products customers are engaged in the food and beverage, home and personal care and life sciences industries. These customers’ needs include new capacity, incremental capacity from existing facilities, flexible manufacturing and regulatory compliance. These customers operate in an environment where product innovation and time to market are critical factors.

14
We serve customers in resource-based industries, including oil and gas, mining, aggregates, cement, metals, energy, pulp and paper and water/wastewater. Companies in these industries typically invest in capacity expansion when commodity prices are relatively high and global demand for basic materials is increasing. In addition, there is ongoing investment in upgrades of aging automation systems and productivity.

In the transportation industry, factors such as geographic expansion, investment in new model introductions and more flexible manufacturing technologies influence customers’ automation investment decisions. Our sales in transportation are primarily to automotive and tire manufacturers.

All of these industries also generate maintenance repair order (MRO) and ongoing services revenue related to the installed base.

Outsourcing and Sustainability Trends

Demand for our products, solutions and services across all industries benefits from the outsourcing and sustainability needs of our customers. Customers increasingly desire to outsource engineering services to achieve a more flexible cost base. Our manufacturing application knowledge enables us to serve these customers globally.

We help our customers meet their sustainability needs pertaining to energy efficiency, environmental and safety goals. Customers across all industries are investing in more energy-efficient manufacturing processes and technologies, such as intelligent motor control and energy efficient solutions and services. In addition, environmental and safety objectives often spur customers to invest to ensure compliance and implement sustainable business practices.

Acquisitions

Our acquisition strategy focuses on products, solutions and services that will be catalytic to the organic growth of our core offerings. 

In September 2016, we acquired Maverick Technologies, a leading systems integrator. This acquisition significantly enhances our expertise in key process and batch applications that help our customers realize greater productivity and improved global competitiveness through process control and information management solutions.

In September 2016, we acquired Automation Control Products, a premier provider in centralized thin client, remote desktop and server management software. This acquisition strengthens our ability to provide our customers with visual display and software solutions to manage information and streamline workflows for a more connected manufacturing environment.

In March 2016, we acquired MagneMotion Inc., a leading manufacturer of intelligent conveying systems. This acquisition continues our strategy to build a portfolio of smart manufacturing technologies by expanding our existing capabilities in independent cart technology.

In October 2014, we acquired the assets of ESC Services, Inc., a global provider of lockout-tagout services and solutions. This acquisition enables our customers to increase their asset utilization and strengthen their enterprise risk management.

In January 2014, we acquired Jacobs Automation, a pioneer in intelligent track motion control technology. This technology improves performance across a wide range of packaging, material handling, and other applications for global machine builders.

In November 2013, we acquired vMonitor LLC and its affiliates, a global technology leader for wireless solutions in the oil and gas industry. This acquisition strengthens our ability to deliver end-to-end projects for the oil and gas sector and accelerates our development of similar process solutions and remote monitoring services for other industries globally. 

We believe these acquisitions will help us expand our served market and deliver value to our customers.

Continuous Improvement

Productivity and continuous improvement are important components of our culture. We have programs in place that drive ongoing process improvement, functional streamlining, material cost savings and manufacturing productivity. Our implementation of common global processes and an enterprise-wide business system is nearly complete. These are intended to improve profitability that can be used to fund investments in growth and to offset inflation. Our ongoing productivity initiatives target both cost reduction and improved asset utilization. Charges for workforce reductions and facility rationalization may be required in order to effectively execute our productivity programs.

15
U. S. Industrial Economic Trends

In 2016, sales in the U.S. accounted for 55 percent of our total sales. The various indicators we use to gauge the direction and momentum of our served U.S. markets include:

•The Industrial Production (IP) Index, published by the Federal Reserve, which measures the real output of manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities. The IP Index is expressed as a percentage of real output in a base year, currently 2012. Historically there has been a meaningful correlation between the changes in the IP Index and the level of automation investment made by our U.S. customers in their manufacturing base.

•The Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), published by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM), which indicates the current and near-term state of manufacturing activity in the U.S. According to the ISM, a PMI measure above 50 indicates that the U.S. manufacturing economy is generally expanding while a measure below 50 indicates that it is generally contracting.

•Industrial Equipment Spending, compiled by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, which provides insight into spending trends in the broad U.S. industrial economy. This measure over the longer term has proven to demonstrate a reasonable correlation with our domestic growth.

•Capacity Utilization (Total Industry), published by the Federal Reserve, which measures plant operating activity. Historically there has been a meaningful correlation between Capacity Utilization and levels of U.S. IP.

The table below depicts the trends in these indicators from fiscal 2014 to 2016. All macroeconomic indicators improved in the most recent quarter except for PMI, indicating a recovery in the industrial economy. Although PMI declined in September, the reading of 51.5 indicates that the manufacturing sector is continuing to expand.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Note: Economic indicators are subject to revisions by the issuing organizations.

16
Non-U.S. Economic Trends

In 2016, sales outside the U.S. accounted for 45 percent of our total sales. These customers include both indigenous companies and multinational companies with expanding global presence. In addition to the global factors previously mentioned in the "Overview" section, international demand, particularly in emerging markets, has historically been driven by the strength of the industrial economy in each region, investments in infrastructure and expanding consumer markets. We use changes in the respective countries' gross domestic product and IP as indicators of the growth opportunities in each region where we do business. 

Economic projections call for a higher rate of industrial production growth in all regions in 2017 except for Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA). Current economic projections indicate stable conditions in Europe as we proceed into 2017 but with some uncertainty associated with the ultimate resolution of the United Kingdom’s decision to exit the European Union. In Asia Pacific, China’s economic growth continues to be impacted by elevated debt levels, although industrial output and new orders growth have shown recent improvement; the Indian economy remains one of the fastest growing globally. In Latin America, Brazil remains in recession but with an improved outlook, and Mexico’s economy continues to be stable. Canada’s outlook has also improved, as investment in resource-based industries may have reached a bottom.

17
Summary of Results of Operations

In 2016, sales were $5,879.5 million, a decrease of 6.8 percent year over year. Organic sales decreased 3.9 percent, and currency translation reduced sales by 3.0 percentage points. Growth in consumer and automotive industries was more than offset by declines in heavy industries, particularly oil and gas and mining.

The following is a summary of our results related to key growth initiatives:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2016 we were able to hold pre-tax margin above 16 percent and segment operating margin above 20 percent despite difficult market conditions and lower reported sales.

18
The following table reflects our sales and operating results for the years ended September 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (in millions, except per share amounts):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)See Note 15 in the Financial Statements for the definition of segment operating earnings.

(2)Total segment operating earnings and total segment operating margin are non-GAAP financial measures. We exclude purchase accounting depreciation and amortization, general corporate – net, non-operating pension costs, interest expense and income tax provision because we do not consider these costs to be directly related to the operating performance of our segments. We believe that these measures are useful to investors as measures of operating performance. We use these measures to monitor and evaluate the profitability of our operating segments. Our measures of total segment operating earnings and total segment operating margin may be different from measures used by other companies.

(3)Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP earnings measure that excludes the non-operating pension costs and their related income tax effects. See Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation for more information on this non-GAAP measure.

19
Purchase accounting depreciation and amortization and non-operating pension costs are not allocated to our operating segments because these costs are excluded from our measurement of each segment's operating performance for internal purposes. If we were to allocate these costs, we would attribute them to each of our segments as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increases in non-operating pension costs in both segments in fiscal 2016 were primarily due to our adoption of the new mortality table (RP-2014) and mortality improvement scale (MP-2014) used to measure net periodic pension cost for our U.S. pension plans.

Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation

Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate are non-GAAP earnings measures that exclude non-operating pension costs and their related income tax effects. Non-operating pension costs include defined benefit plan interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of actuarial gains and losses and the impact of any plan curtailments or settlements. These components of net periodic pension cost primarily relate to changes in pension assets and liabilities that are a result of market performance; we consider these costs to be unrelated to the operating performance of our business. We believe that Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate provide useful information to our investors about our operating performance and allow management and investors to compare our operating performance period over period. Adjusted EPS is also used as a financial measure of performance for our annual incentive compensation. Our measures of Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate may be different from measures used by other companies. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered a substitute for income from continuing operations, diluted EPS and effective tax rate.

The following are the components of operating and non-operating pension costs for the years ended September 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

20
The following are reconciliations of income from continuing operations, diluted EPS from continuing operations and effective tax rate to Adjusted Income, Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate, respectively, for the years ended September 30, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (in millions, except per share amounts and percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

21
2016 Compared to 2015 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Sales in fiscal 2016 decreased 6.8 percent compared to 2015. Organic sales decreased 3.9 percent, and currency translation reduced sales by 3.0 percentage points. Pricing contributed less than one percentage point to growth.

The table below presents our sales, attributed to the geographic regions based upon country of destination, for the year ended September 30, 2016 and the percentage change from the same period a year ago (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Organic sales are sales excluding the effect of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions. See Supplemental Sales Information for information on this non-GAAP measure.

•Sales in the United States declined year over year, mainly due to weakness in heavy industries, particularly oil and gas.

•Sales in Canada decreased due to the unfavorable impact of currency translation as well as declines in heavy industries, particularly oil and gas.

•EMEA sales decreased due to the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Organic sales increased in both mature Europe and emerging countries.

•Asia Pacific sales declined due to the unfavorable impact of currency translation as well as a decrease in organic sales in China.

•Latin America sales decreased due to the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Organic sales growth in the region was led by Mexico.

General Corporate - Net 

General corporate - net expenses were $79.7 million in fiscal 2016 compared to $85.6 million in fiscal 2015.

Income before Income Taxes

Income before income taxes decreased 16 percent from $1,127.5 million in 2015 to $943.1 million in 2016, primarily due to a decrease in segment operating earnings. Total segment operating earnings decreased 13 percent year over year from $1,360.5 million in 2015 to $1,188.7 million in 2016, primarily due to lower organic sales and unfavorable currency effects.

22
Income Taxes

The effective tax rate in 2016 was 22.6 percent compared to 26.6 percent in 2015. The Adjusted Effective Tax Rate in 2016 was 23.6 percent compared to 27.0 percent in 2015. The decreases in the effective tax rate and the Adjusted Effective Tax Rate were primarily due to an incremental benefit from the retroactive and permanent extension of the U.S. federal research and development tax credit (U.S. research tax credit) in the first quarter of 2016, a more favorable geographic mix of our pre-tax income and discrete tax items.

See Note 13 in the Financial Statements for a complete reconciliation of the United States statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate and more information on tax events in 2016 and 2015 affecting each year's respective tax rates.

Architecture & Software

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Architecture & Software sales decreased 4.2 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. Organic sales decreased 1.5 percent, the effects of currency translation reduced sales by 3.0 percentage points, and acquisitions contributed 0.3 percentage points to sales growth. Pricing contributed approximately one percentage point to growth during the year. All regions experienced a decline in sales during the year except EMEA. Excluding the impact of currency translation, growth in Latin America and EMEA was more than offset by decreases in the remaining regions. Logix sales decreased 7 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. Logix organic sales decreased 4 percent year over year, and currency translation reduced sales by 3 percentage points.

Operating Margin

Architecture & Software segment operating earnings decreased 14 percent. Operating margin was 26.4 percent in 2016 compared to 29.4 percent in 2015, primarily due to unfavorable mix and currency effects as well as lower organic sales.

Control Products & Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Control Products & Solutions sales decreased 8.8 percent in 2016 compared to 2015. Organic sales decreased 5.8 percent, and currency translation reduced sales by 3.0 percentage points. Pricing contributed less than one percentage point to growth during the year. All regions experienced a year-over-year decrease in sales. Excluding the impact of currency translation, growth in Latin America was more than offset by declines in the remaining regions.

Sales in our solutions and services businesses decreased 11 percent year over year. Organic sales in our solutions and services businesses decreased 8 percent during 2016, and currency translation reduced sales by 3 percentage points.

Product sales decreased 5 percent year over year. Product organic sales decreased 2 percent year over year in 2016, and currency translation reduced sales by 3 percentage points. 

Operating Margin

Control Products & Solutions segment operating earnings decreased 11 percent year over year. Segment operating margin was 15.2 percent in 2016 compared to 15.5 percent a year ago, primarily due to lower organic sales, partially offset by productivity.

23
2015 Compared to 2014 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Sales in fiscal 2015 decreased 4.8 percent compared to 2014. Organic sales increased 1.1 percent, and currency translation reduced sales by 6.0 percent. Product sales decreased 3 percent year over year. Product organic sales increased 3 percent year over year in 2015, and currency translation reduced sales by 6 percent. Pricing contributed approximately one percentage point to growth.

The table below presents our sales, attributed to the geographic regions based upon country of destination, for the year ended September 30, 2015 and the percentage change from the same period a year ago (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Organic sales are sales excluding the effect of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions. See Supplemental Sales Information for information on this non-GAAP measure.

•Sales in the United States increased modestly, with strength in the consumer and automotive industries offset by weakness in heavy industries, especially the oil and gas industry.

•Sales in Canada declined due to the unfavorable impact of currency translation as well as declines in resource-based industries, particularly the oil and gas industry.

•EMEA sales decreased due to the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Organic sales growth was led by emerging countries with modest growth in mature Europe.

•Asia Pacific sales declined due to the unfavorable impact of currency translation as well as a decrease in organic sales in China, partially offset by growth in India.

•Latin America sales decreased due to the unfavorable impact of currency translation. Organic sales growth in the region was primarily driven by strong sales growth in Mexico.

24
General Corporate - Net 

General corporate - net expenses were $85.6 million in fiscal 2015 compared to $81.0 million in fiscal 2014.

Income before Income Taxes

Income before income taxes decreased 1 percent from $1,134.2 million in 2014 to $1,127.5 million in 2015, primarily due to increases in non-operating pension costs, general corporate - net expenses and interest expense, partially offset by an increase in segment operating earnings. Total segment operating earnings increased 1 percent year over year, primarily due to strong productivity and higher organic sales, partially offset by unfavorable currency effects and higher spending.

Income Taxes

The effective tax rate for 2015 was 26.6 percent compared to 27.1 percent in 2014. The Adjusted Effective Tax Rate in 2015 was 27.0 percent compared to 27.5 percent in 2014. The decreases in the effective tax rate and the Adjusted Effective Tax Rate were primarily due to the tax effect of foreign dividends and the retroactive extension of the U.S. research tax credit for calendar year 2014 during the first quarter of fiscal 2015, partially offset by a difference in the mix of pre-tax income across regions.

See Note 13 in the Financial Statements for a complete reconciliation of the United States statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate and more information on tax events in 2015 and 2014 affecting each year's respective tax rates.

Architecture & Software

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Architecture & Software sales decreased 3.4 percent in 2015 compared to 2014. Organic sales increased 3.1 percent, and the effects of currency translation reduced sales by 6.6 percent. Pricing contributed approximately one and a half percentage points to growth during the year. All regions experienced a decline in sales during the year except the United States. Excluding the impact of currency translation, Latin America was the segment's best performing region in 2015, with all other regions experiencing sales growth except for Asia Pacific. Logix sales decreased 2.5 percent in 2015 compared to 2014 and Logix organic sales increased 4.2 percent year over year.

Operating Margin

Architecture & Software segment operating earnings decreased 4 percent. Operating margin was 29.4 percent in 2015 compared to 29.5 percent in 2014. The favorable impact of organic sales growth and productivity was more than offset by higher spending and unfavorable currency effects. 

25
Control Products & Solutions

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Control Products & Solutions sales decreased 5.8 percent in 2015 compared to 2014. Organic sales decreased 0.4 percent, and currency translation reduced sales by 5.6 percent. Pricing contributed slightly less than one percentage point to growth during the year. All regions experienced a decline in sales except for the United States which was flat year over year. Excluding the impact of currency translation, growth in Latin America was more than offset by declines in Canada with all other regions flat during 2015.

Sales in our solutions and services businesses decreased 8 percent year over year. Organic sales in our solutions and services businesses decreased 2 percent during 2015, and the net effect of currency translation and acquisitions reduced sales by 6 percentage points. 

Operating Margin

Control Products & Solutions segment operating earnings increased 8 percent year over year. Segment operating margin was 15.5 percent in 2015 compared to 13.6 percent a year ago, primarily due to very strong productivity. 

26
Financial Condition

The following is a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table summarizes free cash flow (in millions), which is a non-GAAP financial measure:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our definition of free cash flow takes into consideration capital investments required to maintain our businesses and execute our strategy. Cash provided by continuing operating activities adds back non-cash depreciation expense to earnings but does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Our definition of free cash flow excludes the operating cash flows and capital expenditures related to our discontinued operations. Operating, investing and financing cash flows of our discontinued operations are presented separately in our statement of cash flows. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP) require the excess income tax benefit from share-based compensation to be reported as a financing cash flow rather than as an operating cash flow. We have added this benefit back to our calculation of free cash flow in order to generally classify cash flows arising from income taxes as operating cash flows. In our opinion, free cash flow provides useful information to investors regarding our ability to generate cash from business operations that is available for acquisitions and other investments, service of debt principal, dividends and share repurchases. We use free cash flow as one measure to monitor and evaluate our performance, including as a financial measure for our annual incentive compensation. Our definition of free cash flow may differ from definitions used by other companies.

Cash provided by operating activities was $947.3 million for the year ended September 30, 2016 compared to $1,187.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2015. Free cash flow was $833.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2016 compared to $1,077.2 million for the year ended September 30, 2015. The year-over-year decrease in cash flow provided by operating activities and free cash flow was primarily due to lower pre-tax income and less favorable working capital performance in 2016 compared to 2015.

We repurchased approximately 4.6 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program in 2016 at a total cost of $500.2 million. In 2015, we repurchased approximately 5.4 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program at a total cost of $606.2 million. At September 30, 2016 and 2015 there were $5.3 million and $12.5 million, respectively, of outstanding common stock share repurchases recorded in accounts payable that did not settle until the next fiscal year. Our decision to repurchase shares in 2017 will depend on business conditions, free cash flow generation, other cash requirements and stock price. On April 6, 2016, the Board of Directors authorized us to expend an additional $1.0 billion to repurchase shares of our common stock. At September 30, 2016 we had approximately $945.0 million remaining for share repurchases under our existing board authorization. See Part II, Item 5. Market for the Company’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, for additional information regarding share repurchases.

27
We expect future uses of cash to include working capital requirements, capital expenditures, additional contributions to our retirement plans, acquisitions of businesses, dividends to shareowners, repurchases of common stock and repayments of debt. We expect capital expenditures in 2017 to be about $150 million. We expect to fund future uses of cash with a combination of existing cash balances and short-term investments, cash generated by operating activities, commercial paper borrowings or a new issuance of debt or other securities.

Given our extensive international operations, significant amounts of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments (funds) are held by non-U.S. subsidiaries where our undistributed earnings are indefinitely reinvested. Generally, these funds would be subject to U.S. tax if repatriated. As of September 30, 2016, approximately 95 percent of our funds were held by these non-U.S. subsidiaries. The percentage of these funds held by non-U.S. subsidiaries can vary from quarter to quarter with an average of approximately 90 percent over the past eight quarters. We have not encountered and do not expect to encounter any difficulty meeting the liquidity requirements of our domestic and international operations.

In addition to cash generated by operating activities, we have access to existing financing sources, including the public debt markets and unsecured credit facilities with various banks. Our short-term debt obligations are primarily comprised of commercial paper borrowings. Commercial paper borrowings outstanding were $448.6 million at September 30, 2016, with a weighted average interest rate of 0.57 percent and weighted average maturity period of 35 days. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding at September 30, 2015. Our debt-to-total-capital ratio was 49.7 percent at September 30, 2016 and 39.9 percent at September 30, 2015.

At September 30, 2016 and 2015, our total current borrowing capacity under our unsecured revolving credit facility expiring in March 2020 was $1.0 billion. We can increase the aggregate amount of this credit facility by up to $350.0 million, subject to the consent of the banks in the credit facility. We have not borrowed against this credit facility during the years ended September 30, 2016 or 2015. Separate short-term unsecured credit facilities of approximately $121.2 million at September 30, 2016 were available to non-U.S. subsidiaries. Borrowings under our non-U.S. credit facilities at September 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015 were not significant. We were in compliance with all covenants under our credit facilities at September 30, 2016 and September 30, 2015. Additional information related to our credit facilities is included in Note 5 in the Financial Statements.

Among other uses, we can draw on our credit facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay our outstanding commercial paper as it matures. This access to funds to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the short-term credit ratings set forth in the table below. Under our current policy with respect to these ratings, we expect to limit our other borrowings under our credit facility, if any, to amounts that would leave enough credit available under the facility so that we could borrow, if needed, to repay all of our then outstanding commercial paper as it matures.

The following is a summary of our credit ratings as of September 30, 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit ratings and market conditions. We have not experienced any difficulty in accessing the commercial paper market to date. If our access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, we would expect to rely on a combination of available cash and our unsecured committed credit facility to provide short-term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under our unsecured committed credit facility could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings.

We regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities. Our emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds.

28
We use foreign currency forward exchange contracts to manage certain foreign currency risks. We enter into these contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate variability in the expected future cash flows associated with certain third-party and intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies forecasted to occur within the next two years. We also use these contracts to hedge portions of our net investments in certain non-U.S. subsidiaries against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the translation of foreign currency balances to the U.S. dollar. In addition, we use foreign currency forward exchange contracts that are not designated as hedges to offset transaction gains or losses associated with some of our assets and liabilities resulting from intercompany loans or other transactions with third parties that are denominated in currencies other than our entities' functional currencies. Our foreign currency forward exchange contracts are usually denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. We diversify our foreign currency forward exchange contracts among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities.

From 1975 to 1989, Rockwell International Corporation (RIC) operated the Rocky Flats facility in Colorado for the U.S. Department of Energy (DoE). In 1990, a class of landowners near Rocky Flats sued RIC and Dow Chemical, another former operator of the facility. In May 2016, the parties agreed to settle this case and the DoE authorized the settlement. Under the settlement agreement, which is subject to court approval, we and Dow Chemical will pay $375.0 million in the aggregate to resolve the claims. We expect to be fully reimbursed by the DoE for our obligation of $243.75 million under the settlement, either before or after we pay the amounts due. We expect to pay up to $242.5 million within the next 12 months. We will promptly pursue reimbursement from the DoE; however, it is uncertain whether the government indemnification and reimbursement process will be completed by the time payment is due. Given our cash and credit resources, we do not believe that the matter will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Refer to Note 17 in the Financial Statements for further discussion of the Rocky Flats settlement.

Cash dividends to shareowners were $378.2 million in 2016 ($2.90 per common share), $350.1 million in 2015 ($2.60 per common share) and $320.5 million in 2014 ($2.32 per common share). Our quarterly dividend rate as of September 30, 2016 is $0.725 per common share ($2.90 per common share annually), which is determined at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors.

A summary of our projected contractual cash obligations at September 30, 2016 is as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Our postretirement benefit plans are unfunded and are subject to change. Amounts reported are estimates of future benefit payments, to the extent estimable.

(c)Amounts reported for pension funding contributions reflect current estimates of known commitments. Contributions to our pension plans beyond 2017 will depend on future investment performance of our pension plan assets, changes in discount rate assumptions and governmental regulations in effect at the time. Amounts subsequent to 2017 are excluded from the summary above, as these amounts cannot be estimated with certainty. The minimum contribution for our U.S. pension plan as required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) is currently zero. We may make additional contributions to this plan at the discretion of management.

29
(d)This item includes contractual commitments for capital expenditures, certain materials purchases and long-term obligations under agreements with various service providers.

(e)Other long-term liabilities include environmental remediation costs, conditional asset retirement obligations and indemnification liabilities, net of related receivables. Amounts subsequent to 2017 are excluded from the summary above, as we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when the liabilities will be paid.

(f)Amount for unrecognized tax benefits includes accrued interest and penalties. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits will be settled or paid.

(g)Refer to Note 17 in the Financial Statements for discussion of the Rocky Flats settlement.

30
Supplemental Sales Information

We translate sales of subsidiaries operating outside of the United States using exchange rates effective during the respective period. Therefore, changes in currency exchange rates affect our reported sales. Sales by acquired businesses also affect our reported sales. We believe that organic sales, defined as sales excluding the effects of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, provides useful information to investors because it reflects regional and operating segment performance from the activities of our businesses without the effect of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions. We use organic sales as one measure to monitor and evaluate our regional and operating segment performance. We determine the effect of changes in currency exchange rates by translating the respective period’s sales using the same currency exchange rates that were in effect during the prior year. When we acquire businesses, we exclude sales in the current period for which there are no comparable sales in the prior period. Organic sales growth is calculated by comparing organic sales to reported sales in the prior year. We attribute sales to the geographic regions based on the country of destination.

The following is a reconciliation of our reported sales by geographic region to organic sales (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31
The following is a reconciliation of our reported sales by operating segment to organic sales (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

32
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

We have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and revenues and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies could have the most significant effect on our reported results or require subjective or complex judgments by management.

Retirement Benefits — Pension

Pension costs and obligations are actuarially determined and are influenced by assumptions used to estimate these amounts, including the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets, the assumed annual compensation increase rate, the retirement rate, the mortality rate and the employee turnover rate. Changes in any of the assumptions and the amortization of differences between the assumptions and actual experience will affect the amount of pension expense in future periods.

Our global pension expense in 2016 was $161.3 million compared to $145.7 million in 2015. Approximately 77 percent of our 2016 global pension expense relates to our U.S. pension plan. The actuarial assumptions used to determine our 2016 U.S. pension expense included the following: discount rate of 4.55 percent (compared to 4.50 percent for 2015); expected rate of return on plan assets of 7.50 percent (compared to 7.50 percent for 2015); and an assumed long-term compensation increase rate of 3.75 percent (compared to 3.75 percent for 2015).

In 2016, 2015 and 2014, we were not required to make contributions to satisfy minimum statutory funding requirements in our U.S. pension plans. 

The table below presents our estimate of net periodic benefit cost in 2017 compared to net periodic benefit cost in 2016 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For 2017 our U.S. discount rate will decrease to 3.75 percent from 4.55 percent in 2016. The discount rate was set as of our September 30 measurement date and was determined by modeling a portfolio of bonds that match the expected cash flow of our benefit plans. For 2017 our U.S. long-term compensation increase rate will decrease to 3.50 percent from 3.75 percent in 2016. We established this rate by analyzing all elements of compensation that are pension-eligible earnings. 

For 2017 our expected rate of return on U.S. plan assets will remain 7.50 percent. In estimating the expected return on plan assets, we considered actual returns on plan assets over the long term, adjusted for forward-looking considerations, such as inflation, interest rates, equity performance and the active management of the plan’s invested assets. We also considered our current and expected mix of plan assets in setting this assumption. The financial markets produced positive returns in 2016. The plan’s debt securities return was positive and above the expected return range in 2016, as lower market interest rates resulted in a strong performance from bonds. The plan’s equity securities return was above the expected return range in 2016, as U.S. and international equity returns were positive for the year. The actual return for our portfolio of U.S. plan assets was approximately 7.60 percent annualized for the 15 years ended September 30, 2016, and was approximately 8.30 percent annualized for the 20 years ended September 30, 2016. 

33
The target allocations and ranges of long-term expected return for our major categories of U.S. plan assets are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The changes in our discount rate and return on plan assets have an inverse relationship with our net periodic benefit cost. The change in our discount rate also has an inverse relationship with our projected benefit obligation. The change in our compensation increase rate has a direct relationship with our net periodic benefit cost and projected benefit obligation. 

The following chart illustrates the estimated change in projected benefit obligation and annual net periodic benefit cost assuming a change of 25 basis points in the key assumptions for our U.S. pension plans (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Change includes both operating and non-operating pension costs.

More information regarding pension benefits is contained in Note 11 in the Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition

For approximately 85 percent of our consolidated sales, we record sales when all of the following have occurred: persuasive evidence of a sales agreement exists; pricing is fixed or determinable; collection is reasonably assured; and products have been delivered and acceptance has occurred, as may be required according to contract terms, or services have been rendered. We recognize substantially all of the remainder of our sales as construction-type contracts using either the percentage-of-completion or completed contract methods of accounting. We record sales relating to these contracts using the percentage-of-completion method when we determine that progress toward completion is reasonably and reliably estimable; we use the completed contract method for all others. More information regarding our revenue recognition policies is contained in Note 1 in the Financial Statements.

Returns, Rebates and Incentives

Our primary incentive program provides distributors with cash rebates or account credits based on agreed amounts that vary depending on the customer to whom our distributor ultimately sells the product. We also offer various other incentive programs that provide distributors and direct sale customers with cash rebates, account credits or additional products, solutions and services based on meeting specified program criteria. Certain distributors are offered a right to return product, subject to contractual limitations.

We record accruals for customer returns, rebates and incentives at the time of revenue recognition based primarily on historical experience. Adjustments to the accrual may be required if actual returns, rebates and incentives differ from historical experience or if there are changes to other assumptions used to estimate the accrual. A critical assumption used in estimating the accrual for our primary distributor rebate program is the time period from when revenue is recognized to when the rebate is processed. If the time period were to change by 10 percent, the effect would be an adjustment to the accrual of approximately $7.9 million.

Returns, rebates and incentives are recognized as a reduction of sales if distributed in cash or customer account credits. Rebates and incentives are recognized in cost of sales for additional products, solutions and services to be provided. Accruals are reported as a current liability in our balance sheet or, where a right of setoff exists, as a reduction of accounts receivable. The accrual for customer returns, rebates and incentives was $184.4 million at September 30, 2016 and $181.4 million at September 30, 2015, of which $7.9 million at September 30, 2016 and $9.2 million at September 30, 2015 was included as an offset to accounts receivable.

34
Litigation, Claims and Contingencies

We record liabilities for litigation, claims and contingencies when an obligation is probable and when we have a basis to reasonably estimate its value. We also record liabilities for environmental matters based on estimates for known environmental remediation exposures. The liabilities include expenses for sites we currently own or operate or formerly owned or operated and third party sites where we were determined to be a potentially responsible party. At third-party environmental sites where more than one potentially responsible party has been identified, we record a liability for our estimated allocable share of costs related to our involvement with the site, as well as an estimated allocable share of costs related to the involvement of insolvent or unidentified parties. If we determine that recovery from insurers or other third parties is probable and a right of setoff exists, we record the liability net of the estimated recovery. If we determine that recovery from insurers or other third parties is probable, but a right of setoff does not exist, we record a liability for the total estimated costs of remediation and a receivable for the estimated recovery. At environmental sites where we are the only responsible party, we record a liability for the total estimated costs of remediation. Ongoing operating and maintenance expenditures included in our environmental remediation obligations are discounted to present value over the probable future remediation period. Our remaining environmental remediation obligations are undiscounted due to subjectivity of timing and/or amount of future cash payments. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing determinations of what constitutes an environmental exposure or an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that the required remediation procedures or timing of those procedures change, additional contamination is identified, or the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, the estimate of our environmental liabilities may change.

Our accrual for environmental matters, including environmental indemnification liabilities, was $68.7 million, net of $22.2 million of related receivables, and $61.1 million, net of $32.9 million of related receivables, at September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our recorded liability for environmental matters relates almost entirely to businesses formerly owned by us (legacy businesses) for which we retained the responsibility to remediate. The nature of our current business is such that the likelihood of new environmental exposures that could result in a significant charge to earnings is low. As a result of remediation efforts at legacy sites and limited new environmental matters, we expect that gradually, over a long period of time, our environmental obligations will decline. However, changes in required remediation procedures or timing of those procedures at existing legacy sites, or discovery of contamination at additional sites, could result in increases to our environmental obligations.

One of our principal self-insurance programs covers product liability where we self-insure up to a specified dollar amount. Claims exceeding this amount up to specified limits are covered by insurance policies issued by commercial insurers. We estimate the reserve for product liability claims using our claims experience for the periods being valued. Adjustments to the product liability reserves may be required to reflect emerging claims experience and other factors such as inflationary trends or the outcome of claims. The reserve for product liability claims, including asbestos costs, was $20.1 million, net of $11.1 million of related receivables, and $17.8 million, net of $10.4 million of related receivables, as of September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be instituted or asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business. As described in Note 14 in the Financial Statements within the section entitled Other Matters, we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain components of our products many years ago. See Note 14 in the Financial Statements for further discussion.

We accrue for costs related to the legal obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset that results from the acquisition, construction, development or the normal operation of the long-lived asset. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is not conditional even though the timing or method may be conditional. Identified conditional asset retirement obligations include asbestos abatement and remediation of soil contamination beneath current and previously divested facilities. We estimate conditional asset retirement obligations using site-specific knowledge and historical industry expertise. A significant change in the costs or timing could have a significant effect on our estimates. We recorded these liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which totaled $0.7 million and $0.4 million in other current liabilities at September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $19.9 million and $19.8 million in other liabilities at September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

More information regarding litigation, claims and contingencies is contained in Note 14 in the Financial Statements.

35
Income Taxes

Significant judgment is required in the determination of our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits.

Deferred income taxes have been recorded for the temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the Financial Statements. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, we consider by jurisdiction all available positive and negative evidence, including our recent historical operating results, expected future taxable income, scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, and tax-planning strategies. Our assumptions about taxable income are consistent with the plans and estimates of the underlying businesses. We record a valuation allowance if we determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized.

We conduct business globally and are routinely audited by the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. Our income tax positions are based on research and interpretations of the income tax laws and rulings in each of the jurisdictions in which we do business. Due to the subjectivity of interpretations of laws and rulings in each jurisdiction, as well as inherent uncertainty in estimating the final resolution of complex tax audit matters, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments of taxes. We record unrecognized tax liabilities when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including the resolution of any appeals or litigation processes. We adjust these liabilities when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available.

We have not provided U.S. deferred taxes for $3,274.0 million of undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries, since these earnings have been determined to be indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. and thus are not subject to U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional taxes that may be payable upon distribution of these earnings. 

More information regarding income taxes is contained in Note 13 in the Financial Statements.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Note 1 in the Financial Statements regarding recent accounting pronouncements.

36
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk