Item 1A. Risk Factors  

We are subject to a variety of possible risks that could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Some of these risks relate to general economic and financial conditions, while others are more specific to us and the industry in which we operate. The following factors set out potential risks we have identified that could adversely affect us. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, could also impair our business operations or financial condition. See also “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.”  

   •    We operate in a highly competitive industry.  

The marketing communications business is highly competitive. Our agencies and media services must compete with other agencies, and with other providers of creative or media services, in order to maintain existing client relationships and to win new clients. Our competitors include not only other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies, but also smaller entities that operate in local or regional markets. New market participants include database marketing and modeling companies, telemarketers and internet companies.  

The client’s perception of the quality of our agencies’ creative work, our reputation and our agencies’ reputations are important factors in determining our competitive position. An agency’s ability to serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis is also an important competitive consideration. On the other hand, because an agency’s principal asset is its people, freedom of entry into the business is almost unlimited and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s account from a much larger competitor.  

Many companies put their advertising and marketing communications business up for competitive review from time to time. We have won and lost client accounts in the past as a result of such periodic competitions. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 24% of revenue in 2009. While we believe it unlikely that we would  

6  

Table of Contents 

 lose the entire business of any one of our largest clients at the same time due to competitive considerations, a substantial decline in a large client’s advertising and marketing spending, or the loss of its entire business, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations.  

Our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may also, in some cases, be limited by clients’ policies or perceptions about conflicts of interest. These policies can, in some cases, prevent one agency, or even different agencies under our ownership, from performing similar services for competing products or companies.  

   •    Continuing difficult economic and financial conditions could adversely impact our financial condition and results.  

The global economic recession made business conditions extremely challenging for us during 2009. The weak conditions in the broader economy continue to affect the demand for advertising and marketing services and present a challenge to the revenue and profit growth of our company.  

   a) As a marketing services company, our revenues are highly susceptible to declines as a result of unfavorable economic conditions.  

The economic downturn has severely affected the marketing services industry, and the recovery of the marketing services industry could lag that of the economy generally. Many clients have responded to weak economic and financial conditions with reductions to their marketing budgets, which include discretionary components that are easier to reduce in the short term than other operating expenses. This pattern may continue or recur in the future. A decrease in our revenue could pose a challenge to our cash generation from operations.  

   b) If our clients experience financial distress, their weakened financial position could negatively affect our own financial position and results.  

We have a large and diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. Unfavorable economic and financial conditions like those that have impacted most sectors of the economy could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients, and if these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments of intangible assets, credit facility covenant violations and reduced liquidity. For a description of our client base, see “Clients” in Item 1, Business.  

   c) Our financial condition could be adversely affected if our available liquidity is insufficient.  

We maintain a committed credit facility to increase our financial flexibility. The $335.0 million Three-Year Credit Agreement (the “2008 Credit Agreement”) we entered into in July 2008 includes commitments from a syndicate of financial institutions, and if any of them were unable to perform and no other bank assumed that institution’s commitment, the availability of credit under that agreement would be correspondingly reduced. Furthermore, the 2008 Credit Agreement contains financial covenants, and continued economic difficulties could adversely affect our ability to comply with them, for example, if we experience substantially lower revenues, a substantial increase in client defaults or sizable asset impairment charges. In 2009 and in January 2010, we obtained amendments to the 2008 Credit Agreement in order to retain our ability to comply with those covenants. If in the future we were to conclude that we would be unable to comply with any of the financial covenants contained in the 2008 Credit Agreement, we could be required to seek further amendments or waivers, and our costs under the 2008 Credit Agreement could increase. If we were unable to obtain a necessary amendment or waiver, the 2008 Credit Agreement could be terminated. If credit under our credit facilities were unavailable or insufficient, our liquidity could be adversely affected.  

If our business is significantly adversely affected by the difficult economic environment or otherwise, it could lead us to seek new or additional sources of liquidity to fund our needs. Currently, for a non-investment-grade company like ours, the capital markets remain challenging. There can be no guarantee that we would be able to access any new sources of liquidity on commercially reasonable terms or at all. For further discussion of our liquidity profile and outlook, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

7  

Table of Contents 

   •    Our earnings would be adversely affected if we were required to recognize asset impairment charges or increase our deferred tax valuation allowances.  

We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill, other intangible assets and fixed assets), investments and deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability annually or whenever there is an indication of impairment or lack of realizability. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance. In prior years, we recorded substantial amounts of goodwill, investment and other impairment charges, and we have been required to establish substantial valuation allowances with respect to deferred tax assets.  

As of December 31, 2009, we have substantial amounts of long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including approximately $3.3 billion of goodwill. Future events, including our financial performance, market valuation of us or market multiples of comparable companies, loss of a significant client’s business or strategic decisions, could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that the asset values associated with long-lived assets, investments and deferred tax assets may have become impaired. For further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets, and our sensitivity analysis of our valuation of these assets, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Any resulting impairment loss would have an adverse impact on our reported earnings in the period in which the charge is recognized.  

   •    We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel.  

Our employees, including creative, research, media and account specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among our most important assets. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our ability to do so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the compensation we award, and could be adversely affected by our financial or market performance.  

   •    Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us.  

As of February 16, 2010 our long-term debt is rated Ba3 with positive outlook by Moody’s Investor Service, B+ with stable outlook by Standard and Poor’s, and BB+ with positive outlook by Fitch Ratings. Any ratings downgrades or ratings weaker than those of our competitors can adversely affect us, because ratings are an important factor influencing our ability to access capital and the terms of any new indebtedness, including covenants and interest rates. Our clients and vendors may also consider our credit profile when negotiating contract terms, and if they were to change the terms on which they deal with us, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity.  

   •    We may not be able to meet our performance targets and milestones.  

From time to time, we communicate to the public certain targets and milestones for our financial and operating performance that are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance. They should not be understood as predictions or guidance about our expected performance. Our ability to meet any target or milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on them. See “Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure.”  

   •    International business risks could adversely affect our operations.  

International revenues represent a significant portion of our revenues, approximately 44% in 2009. Our international operations are exposed to risks that affect foreign operations of all kinds, including local legislation, monetary devaluation, exchange control restrictions and unstable political conditions. These risks may limit our ability to grow our business and effectively manage our operations in those countries. In addition, because a significant portion of our business is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, such as the Euro, Pound Sterling, Brazilian Real, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollar and Chinese Yuan Renminbi, fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and such currencies may materially affect our financial results.  

8  

Table of Contents 

   •    We are subject to regulations and other governmental scrutiny that could restrict our activities or negatively impact our revenues.  

Our industry is subject to government regulation and other governmental action, both domestic and foreign. There has been an increasing tendency on the part of advertisers and consumer groups to challenge advertising through legislation, regulation, the courts or otherwise, for example on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive or injurious to public welfare. Through the years, there has been a continuing expansion of specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements with respect to the advertising for certain products. Representatives within government bodies, both domestic and foreign, continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising, which, if successful, may have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and, consequently, our revenues.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

 Item 2. Properties