PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. (“IPG”) was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann. The company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.  

About Us  

IPG is one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. Our agencies create marketing programs for clients in every major world market. These companies deliver services across the full spectrum of marketing disciplines and specialties, including advertising, direct marketing, media buying and planning, public relations, events marketing, internet and search engine marketing, social media marketing and mobile marketing.  

The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency and its client to long-term, fully integrated campaigns created by a group of our companies working together on behalf of a client. With offices in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region or align work globally across all major world markets.  

The role of our holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet clients’ needs. Based in New York City, our holding company also sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, establishes financial management and operational controls, guides personnel policy, conducts investor relations and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide limited centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, marketing information retrieval and analysis, legal services, real estate expertise, travel services, recruitment assistance, employee benefits and executive compensation management.  

To keep our company well-positioned in an evolving industry, we support our agencies’ talent and operational initiatives to expand high-growth capabilities and build offerings in key developing markets. When appropriate, we also develop relationships with companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies and the programs they are developing for clients. In addition, we look for opportunities within our company to modernize operations through mergers, strategic alliances and the development of internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration.  

Market Strategy  

We have taken several major strategic steps in recent years to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market.  

Although we have seen some signs of economic stability in recent months, the global economic recession made business conditions in 2009 extremely challenging for all our companies, across all sectors. The weak conditions in the broader economy continue to affect the demand for advertising and marketing services and present a challenge to the revenue and profit growth of companies in our industry. During these challenging economic conditions, we have focused on meeting our clients’ needs while carefully managing our cost structure. We initiated significant severance actions in the fourth quarter of 2008, which have continued through 2009. We believe that our company is well positioned to capitalize on marketplace expansion once consumer confidence and client spending return.  

We operate in a media landscape that has vastly changed over the past decade. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have invested in creative and strategic talent in high-growth areas and have realigned a number of our capabilities to meet market demand.  

   •    At our McCann Worldgroup (“McCann”) unit, a premier global integrated network, we have continued to invest in talent so as to upgrade the group’s integrated marketing services offering at MRM, Momentum and McCann Healthcare.  

2  

Table of Contents 

   •    We combined accountable marketing and consumer advertising agencies to form the unique global offering of Draftfcb.  

   •    We have taken significant actions in recent years to create a more focused and strategic Lowe & Partners (“Lowe”) and this year we aligned Deutsch and Lowe to build on the complementary strengths of the two agencies.  

   •    At our marketing services group, Constituency Management Group (“CMG”), we continue to strengthen our best-in-class public relations and events marketing specialists.  

   •    We have also taken a unique approach to our media offering by installing a single management structure (“Mediabrands”) to oversee all media operations, while concurrently aligning our global media networks with our global brand agencies. This approach ensures that the ideas we develop for clients work across new and traditional media channels and this differentiated media strategy has shown significant traction in the marketplace.  

The aspects of our business addressing digital media continue to evolve rapidly. As such, strong, multi-channel talent is vital to our long-term success as a marketing partner to our clients. In order to grow with our clients, we have therefore accelerated our investment in digital talent, professional training and technology throughout the organization in recent years. This reflects our belief that digital marketing should not be treated as a stand-alone function, but instead, should be incorporated within all of our companies. Recruiting and developing digitally conversant talent at all our agencies and in all marketing disciplines is therefore an area where we continue to invest.  

To meet these changing needs of the marketplace, we have at times acquired or built specialty digital assets, such as Reprise Media (search engine marketing), The Interpublic Emerging Media Lab and HUGE (e-commerce solutions). We have also invested in existing digital assets such as R/GA, a stand-alone digital agency and industry leader in the development of award-winning interactive campaigns for global clients. These specialty assets have unique capabilities and service their own client rosters, while also serving as key digital partners to many of the agencies within IPG.  

Likewise, we continue to look for strategic investments that will position us to capitalize on fast-growth geographic regions. In recent years, we have made investments in India and Brazil, further strengthening our leadership position in these high-growth, developing markets. In 2008, we built on this strategy and completed an important transaction that increased our stake in the Middle East Communication Networks (“MCN”) to a majority position. Headquartered in Dubai, we believe MCN is the region’s premier marketing services management company, with 60 offices across 14 countries. Our partner in Russia is an acknowledged advertising leader in that country. In China, where we operate with all of our global networks and across the full spectrum of marketing services, we continue to invest behind our companies.  

Going forward, we will continue to derive benefits from our diversified client base, global footprint and broad range of services. The improvements we have made in our financial reporting and business information systems during recent years provide us with timely and actionable insights from our global operations, which enables us to manage our business more effectively. Our conservative approach to the balance sheet and liquidity, as well as recent measures to further improve our debt maturity profile, have given us a solid financial foundation and the flexibility required to successfully move forward as business conditions improve.  

Despite economic challenges, clients continue to invest in marketing to protect market share and enhance brand value. In 2009, IPG units were recognized with many of the industry’s most coveted honors, across many advertising and marketing disciplines. Our agencies are invited to compete for most major new business opportunities and won a number of the year’s biggest and most competitive new business assignments. We believe that the competitiveness of our offering bodes well for us when a broader economic turnaround takes hold.  

Our Offering  

IPG is home to some of the world’s best-known and most innovative communications specialists. We have three global brands that provide integrated, large-scale solutions for clients, McCann, Draftfcb and Lowe, as well as our premier domestic integrated agencies and global media networks.  

   •    McCann offers best-in-class communications tools and resources to many of the world’s top companies and most famous brands. We believe McCann is exceptionally qualified to meet client demands in all regions of the world  

3  

Table of Contents 

 and in all marketing disciplines through its operating units: McCann Erickson Advertising, with operations in over 100 countries; MRM Worldwide for relationship marketing and digital expertise; Momentum Worldwide for experiential marketing and promotions; and McCann Healthcare Worldwide for healthcare communications.  

   •    Launched in 2006, Draftfcb is a modern agency model for clients seeking creative and accountable marketing programs. With more than 130 years of combined expertise, the company has its roots in both consumer advertising and behavioral, data- driven direct marketing. We believe the agency is the first global, behavior-based, creative and accountable marketing communications organization operating as a financially and structurally integrated business unit.  

   •    Lowe is a premier creative agency that operates in the world’s largest advertising markets. Lowe is focused on delivering and sustaining high-value ideas for some of the world’s largest clients. The quality of the agency’s product is evident in its high global creative rankings and its standing in major markets. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we announced the alignment of Deutsch, one of our larger domestic full-service agency brands, and Lowe in order to build on the complementary strengths of the two agencies to create a more powerful offering and accelerate our growth. We anticipate that Lowe will be strengthened by adding a dynamic U.S. agency to its strong global network, and that Deutsch will benefit from the multinational reach of Lowe. Deutsch will now be referred to as Deutsch, Inc., a Lowe & Partners Company.  

   •    We created a management entity called Mediabrands in 2008 to oversee our two global media networks, Initiative and Universal McCann, which provide specialized services in media planning and buying, market intelligence and return-on-marketing investment analysis for clients. Initiative and Universal McCann operate independently but often work closely with Draftfcb and McCann, respectively. Aligning the efforts of our major media and our integrated communications networks improves cross-media communications and our ability to deliver integrated marketing programs.  

   •    Our domestic independent agencies include some of the larger full-service agency brands, Campbell-Ewald, Campbell Mithun, Hill Holliday, The Martin Agency and Mullen. The integrated marketing programs created by this group have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S., across all sectors and industries.  

   •    We have exceptional marketing specialists across a range of disciplines. These include FutureBrand (corporate branding), Jack Morton (experiential marketing), Octagon (sports marketing), public relations specialists like Weber Shandwick and Golin Harris, and best-in-class digital agencies, led by R/GA. Our healthcare communications specialists reside within our three global brands, McCann, Draftfcb and Lowe.  

We list approximately 90 companies on our website’s “Company Finder” tool, with descriptions and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at http://www.interpublic.com.  

Financial Reporting Segments  

We have two reportable segments: Integrated Agency Network (“IAN”), which is comprised of McCann, Draftfcb, Lowe, Mediabrands and our domestic integrated agencies; and CMG, which is comprised of the bulk of our specialist marketing services offerings. We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

Principal Markets  

Our agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. Our geographic revenue breakdown is listed below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

4  

Table of Contents 

For further information concerning revenues and long-lived assets on a geographical basis for each of the last three years, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Sources of Revenue  

Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of advertising, marketing and communications programs in various media around the world. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated and accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. Our client contracts are complex arrangements that may include provisions for incentive compensation and govern vendor rebates and credits. Our largest clients are multinational entities and, as such, we often provide services to these clients out of multiple offices and across many of our agencies. In arranging for such services to be provided, we may enter into global, regional and local agreements.  

Revenues for the creation, planning and placement of advertising are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative and/or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided and are usually derived from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which is either retained in total or shared with the client depending on the nature of the services agreement.  

We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and entertainment marketing and corporate and brand identity services.  

In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients. Generally, we act as the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor. In some instances we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges.  

Our revenue is directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our clients. Our revenue tends to be higher in the second half of the calendar year as a result of the holiday season and lower in the first half as a result of the post-holiday slow-down in client activity.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Depending on the terms of the client contract, fees for services performed can be recognized in three principal ways: proportional performance, straight-line (or monthly basis) or completed contract. Fee revenue recognized on a completed contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our contracts end at December 31. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our revenue recognition accounting policies.  

Clients  

Our holding company structure allows us to work with clients within the same business sector through our different agencies, as well as maintain a diversified client base by sector. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 24% of revenue in both 2009 and 2008. However, our largest client accounted for  

5  

Table of Contents 

 approximately 4% and 5% of revenue for 2009 and 2008, respectively. Based on revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, our largest clients (in alphabetical order) were General Motors Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, Microsoft, Unilever and Verizon. We represent several different brands or divisions of each of these clients in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency systems. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget at any time.  

Since we operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry, our operating companies compete amongst other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies in order to obtain new clients and maintain existing client relationships.  

Personnel  

As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 40,000 people, of whom approximately 17,000 were employed in the U.S. Because of the service character of the advertising and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success. There is keen competition for qualified employees.  

Available Information  

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge in the Investors section of our website at http://www.interpublic.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and the Corporate Governance Committee are available free of charge in the Corporate Citizenship section of our website at http://www.interpublic.com, or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 1114 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Secretary. Information on our website is not part of this report.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors