ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could materially affect BB&T’s financial condition and operations. When a risk factor spans several risk categories, the below risks have been listed by their primary risk category. Other factors that could affect the Company’s financial condition and operations are discussed in the “Forward-Looking Statements” section above. However, there may be additional risks that are not presently material or known, and factors besides those discussed below, or elsewhere in this or other reports that BB&T filed or furnished with the SEC, that also could adversely affect the Company. 

Compliance Risk 

Changes in banking laws could have a material adverse effect on BB&T. 

BB&T is extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole. In addition, BB&T is subject to changes in federal and state laws as well as changes in banking and credit regulations, and governmental economic and monetary policies. Any of these changes could adversely and materially affect BB&T. The current regulatory environment for financial institutions entails significant potential increases in compliance requirements and associated costs, including those related to consumer credit, with a focus on mortgage lending. For example, the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010 represented a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, and the implementation of and rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act during 2013 and in the future could result in materially higher compliance costs and otherwise adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Regulatory Considerations” and the immediately following risk factors for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act and its potential impact upon BB&T and its subsidiaries. 

Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These supervisory actions may result in higher capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on BB&T’s activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability. 

The ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, and its related rulemaking activities, may result in lower revenues, higher costs and ratings downgrades. In addition, failure to meet the FRB’s capital planning and adequacy requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act, may limit the ability to pay dividends, enter into acquisitions and repurchase common stock. 

The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law in July 2010, represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, and changes among the bank regulatory agencies. BB&T, under Dodd-Frank, is deemed to be a “systemically important” institution. During 2013, federal agencies continued implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. Many of these provisions remain subject to further rulemaking, guidance, and interpretation by the applicable federal regulators, such as the Council, which will regulate the systemic risk of the financial system. Due to BB&T’s size, it is subject to additional regulations such as the “living will” requirements relating to the rapid and orderly resolution of systemically important financial institutions in the event of material financial distress or failure. BB&T cannot predict the additional effects that compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act or any regulations will have on BB&T’s businesses or its ability to pursue future business opportunities. Additional regulations resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition or results of operations. See “Regulatory Considerations” for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act and its impact upon BB&T. 

In addition, BB&T has been subject to assessment by the FRB as part of the CCAR program. CCAR is an annual exercise by the FRB to ensure that institutions have forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their risks and sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress. BB&T cannot be certain that the FRB will have no objections to BB&T’s future capital plans submitted through the CCAR program. Failure by BB&T to pass the CCAR review could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, enter into acquisitions and repurchase our common stock. 

21 

Table of Contents  

BB&T may be subject to more stringent capital requirements, which could diminish its ability to pay dividends or require BB&T to reduce its operations. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal banking agencies to establish more stringent risk-based capital requirements and leverage limits applicable to banks and BHCs. On July 2, 2013, the FRB approved final rules that established a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. These rules established a more conservative definition of capital, including the elimination of trust-preferred securities for certain institutions. Once adopted and fully phased in, banking organizations such as BB&T would be required to meet enhanced minimum capital and leverage ratios. These requirements, and any other new regulations, including those that have been proposed but not yet implemented as a result of the requirements established by the BCBS, could adversely affect BB&T’s ability to pay dividends, or could require BB&T to reduce business levels or to raise capital, which may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. In addition, the costs associated with complying with more stringent capital requirements, such as the requirement to formulate and submit capital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios on an annual basis, could have a material adverse effect on BB&T. See “Regulatory Considerations” for additional information regarding the capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III. 

Rulemaking changes implemented by the CFPB will result in higher regulatory and compliance costs related to originating and servicing mortgages and may adversely affect our results of operations. 

The CFPB has finalized a number of significant rules which will impact nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential mortgage. These rules implement the Dodd-Frank Act amendments to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. The final rules require banks to, among other things: (i) develop and implement procedures to ensure compliance with a new "reasonable ability to repay" test and identify whether a loan meets a new definition for a "qualified mortgage;" (ii) implement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for servicing mortgages including, but not limited to, early intervention with delinquent borrowers and specific loss mitigation procedures for loans secured by a borrower's principal residence; (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan originator compensation; and (iv) comply with new disclosure requirements and standards for appraisals and escrow accounts maintained for "higher priced mortgage loans." These new rules create operational and strategic challenges for BB&T, as it is both a mortgage originator and a servicer. For example, business models for cost, pricing, delivery, compensation, and risk management will need to be re-evaluated and potentially revised, perhaps substantially. Additionally, programming changes and enhancements to systems will be necessary to comply with the new rules. Some of these new rules became effective in June 2013, while others became effective in January 2014. Forthcoming additional rulemaking affecting the residential mortgage business is also expected. Achieving full compliance in the relatively short timeframe provided for certain of the new rules will result in increased regulatory and compliance costs. 

Differences in interpretation of tax laws and regulations may adversely impact BB&T’s financial statements. 

Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws and regulations differently than BB&T and challenge tax positions that BB&T has taken on its tax returns. This may result in differences in the treatment of revenues, deductions, credits and/or differences in the timing of these items. The differences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s results. For example, as discussed in Note 12 “Income Taxes” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” in February 2010, BB&T received an IRS statutory notice of deficiency for tax years 2002-2007 asserting a liability for taxes, penalties and interest of approximately $892 million related to the disallowance of foreign tax credits and other deductions claimed by a subsidiary in connection with a financing transaction. BB&T paid the disputed tax, penalties and interest in March 2010 and filed a lawsuit seeking a refund in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. On September 20, 2013, the court denied the refund claim. As a result of developments in this and other matters, BB&T recognized $516 million in tax charges in 2013. Potential developments in BB&T’s litigation or in similar cases could adversely affect BB&T’s financial position or results of operations. 

22 

Table of Contents  

Credit Risk 

Changes in national, regional and local economic conditions and deterioration in the geographic and financial markets in which BB&T operates could lead to higher loan charge-offs and reduce BB&T’s net income and growth. 

BB&T’s business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national, regional and local economic conditions. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on BB&T’s operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. BB&T’s banking operations are locally oriented and community-based. Accordingly, BB&T expects to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and CRE markets it serves. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities BB&T serves. Weakness in BB&T’s market area could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because: 

 ·customers may not want or need BB&T’s products or services;  

 ·borrowers may not be able or willing to repay their loans;  

 ·the value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may decline; and  

 ·the quality of BB&T’s loan portfolio may decline. 

Any of the latter three scenarios could require BB&T to charge off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase provisions for credit losses, which would reduce BB&T’s net income. Credit deterioration, combined with flat to declining real estate values, would result in increased loan charge-offs and higher provisions for credit losses, which may negatively impact BB&T’s net income. 

Although the United States economy has shown modest improvement recently, economic conditions continue to pose a risk to financial services firms such as BB&T. There continues to be concern regarding the possibility of a return to recessionary conditions, as well as increased turmoil or volatility in the financial system. BB&T is part of the financial system and a systemic lack of available credit, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, continued volatility in the financial markets and/or reduced business activity could materially adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Further downgrades of U.S. government securities by one or more of the credit ratings agencies could have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s operations, earnings and financial condition. 

During 2011, the S&P credit rating agency lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from AAA to AA+, which reflected S&P’s view that an August 2011 agreement of U.S. lawmakers regarding the debt ceiling fell short of what would be necessary to stabilize the U.S. government’s medium term debt dynamics. The three other major credit rating agencies did not downgrade their previously issued U.S. sovereign credit ratings, though some have issued negative outlooks at various times over the last three years. The current uncertainty over U.S. fiscal policy could lead to future or further downgrades of the U.S. sovereign credit rating by one or more of the major credit rating agencies. A possible future downgrade of the federal government’s credit rating by one or more of the other major ratings agencies could create uncertainty in the U.S. and global financial markets and cause other events which, directly or indirectly, may adversely affect BB&T’s operations, earnings and financial condition. For example, BB&T’s securities portfolio consists largely of MBS issued by GSEs, such as FHLMC and FNMA. Among other things, a further downgrade in the U.S. government’s credit rating could adversely impact the value of these securities and may trigger requirements that the Company post additional collateral for trades relative to these securities. 

The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect BB&T. 

Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. BB&T has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose BB&T to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, BB&T’s credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. These types of losses could materially and adversely affect BB&T’s results of operations or financial condition. 

23 

Table of Contents  

Although the Colonial loan portfolios are largely covered by shared-loss agreements, BB&T is not immune from losses or risks relative to these portfolios. 

Branch Bank acquired significant loan portfolios in connection with its acquisition of Colonial and entered into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which provide that a significant portion of losses related to the covered loan portfolios will be borne by the FDIC. Fluctuations in economic conditions, including those related to local residential real estate, CRE and construction markets, may increase the level of charge-offs on the acquired loan portfolio and correspondingly reduce BB&T’s net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on BB&T’s operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Additionally, the loss sharing agreements have limited terms with the commercial loss sharing ending in 2014 and the single family loss sharing ending in 2019. Therefore, any charge-off of related losses that Branch Bank experiences after the term of the loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact BB&T’s net income. 

Liquidity Risk 

BB&T’s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets, an unforeseen outflow of cash or a reduction in the credit ratings for BB&T or its subsidiaries. 

Liquidity is essential to BB&T’s businesses. Capital and credit markets continue to demonstrate volatility and disruption, and if such volatility and disruption continues, worsens or abates and then arises at a later date, BB&T’s ability to access capital could be materially impaired. Additionally, other factors outside of BB&T’s control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties, could impair BB&T’s ability to access capital markets or create an unforeseen outflow of cash or deposits. BB&T’s inability to access the capital markets could constrain its ability to make new loans, to meet its existing lending commitments and ultimately jeopardize its overall liquidity and capitalization. 

BB&T’s credit ratings are also important to its liquidity. Rating agencies regularly evaluate BB&T and its subsidiaries, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including the financial strength of BB&T and its subsidiaries, as well as factors not entirely within BB&T’s control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. As a result, there can be no assurance that BB&T will maintain its current ratings. A reduction in BB&T’s credit ratings could adversely affect BB&T’s liquidity and competitive position, increase its borrowing costs, limit its access to the capital markets or trigger unfavorable contractual obligations. 

Market Risk 

Turmoil and volatility in global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s operations, earnings and financial condition. 

The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from the EU and other sovereign debt matters could adversely affect BB&T’s business, financial condition and liquidity. Concerns about the EU sovereign debt caused uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally, and continued uncertainties loom over the outcome of the EU’s financial support programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles. 

The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the FRB, have a significant impact on market interest rates, and our business and financial performance is impacted significantly by such interest rates. 

BB&T’s businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and other policies adopted by various regulatory authorities of the U.S., non-U.S. governments and international agencies. The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. The federal policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments. The market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of BB&T’s financial assets, most notably debt securities. Changes in the federal policies are beyond BB&T’s control and, consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of our operations is difficult to predict. 

24 

Table of Contents  

Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on BB&T’s profitability. 

BB&T’s earnings and financial condition are largely dependent on net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads could adversely affect BB&T’s earnings and financial condition. BB&T cannot control or predict with certainty changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions, competitive pressures and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the FRB, affect interest income and interest expense. As discussed in “Market Risk Management – Interest Rate Market Risk (Other than Trading),” BB&T has ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on BB&T’s profitability. For example, rising interest rates could adversely affect BB&T’s mortgage banking business because higher interest rates could cause customers to apply for fewer mortgages. Similarly, rising interest rates may increase the cost of BB&T’s deposits, which are a primary source of funding. While BB&T actively manages against these risks through hedging and other risk mitigation strategies, if BB&T’s assumptions regarding borrower behavior are wrong or overall economic conditions are significantly different than anticipated, the Company’s risk mitigation techniques may be insufficient. 

Loss of deposits could increase the Company’s funding costs. 

Deposits are a low cost and stable source of funding. BB&T competes with banks and other financial institutions for deposits. Funding costs may increase because the Company may lose deposits and replace them with more expensive sources of funding, clients may shift their deposits into higher cost products or the Company may need to raise its interest rates to avoid losing deposits. Higher funding costs reduce the Company’s NIM, net interest income and net income. 

Operational Risk 

BB&T faces security risks, including “denial of service attacks,” “hacking” and “identity theft” that could result in the disclosure of confidential information, adversely affect BB&T’s business or reputation and create significant legal and financial exposure. 

BB&T’s computer systems and network infrastructure are subject to security risks and could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terrorist activities or identity theft. Financial services institutions and companies engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks and other means. Denial of service attacks have been launched against a number of large financial services institutions, including BB&T. None of these events resulted in a breach of BB&T’s client data or account information; however, the performance of BB&T’s website, www.bbt.com, was adversely affected, and in some instances customers were prevented from accessing BB&T’s website. We expect to be subject to similar attacks in the future. While events to date primarily resulted in inconvenience, future cyber-attacks could be more disruptive and damaging. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause serious reputational harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and BB&T may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks. BB&T may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks and could be held liable for any security breach or loss. 

Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of its systems, BB&T will not be able to anticipate all security breaches of these types, and BB&T may not be able to implement effective preventive measures against such security breaches. The techniques used by cyber criminals change frequently, may not be recognized until launched and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including outside groups such as external service providers, organized crime affiliates, terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. Those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of BB&T’s systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to its data or that of its clients. These risks may increase in the future as the Company continues to increase its mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and expands its internal usage of web-based products and applications. 

A successful penetration or circumvention of system security could cause serious negative consequences to BB&T, including significant disruption of operations, misappropriation of confidential information of BB&T or that of its customers, or damage to computers or systems of the Company or those of its customers and counterparties. A successful security breach could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to BB&T or to its customers, loss of confidence in BB&T’s security measures, significant litigation exposure, and harm to BB&T’s reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. 

25 

Table of Contents  

BB&T relies on its employees, systems and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect operations. 

BB&T’s business is dependent on the ability to process, record and monitor a large number of complex transactions. The Company could be materially adversely affected if one or more of its employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or intentionally. Financial, accounting, or other data processing systems may fail or have other significant shortcomings that materially adversely affect BB&T’s business. In addition, products, services and processes are continually changing and BB&T may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from such changes. Any of these occurrences could diminish the ability to operate one or more LOBs or result in potential liability to clients, increased operating expenses, higher litigation costs (including fines and sanctions), reputational damage, regulatory intervention or weaker competitive standing, any of which could be material to the Company. 

If personal, confidential or proprietary information of clients were to be mishandled or misused, significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss could occur. Such mishandling or misuse could include circumstances where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either through the fault of systems, employees, or counterparties, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise inappropriately taken by third parties. 

BB&T may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control, which may include, for example, security breaches; electrical or telecommunications outages; failures of computer servers or other damage to property or assets; natural disasters; health emergencies or pandemics; or events arising from political events, including terrorist acts. There can be no assurance that disaster recovery or other plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks. Any failures or disruptions of systems or operations could impact BB&T’s ability to service its clients, which could adversely affect BB&T’s results of operations by subjecting BB&T to losses, litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or by requiring the expenditure of significant resources to correct the failure or disruption. 

Significant litigation could have a material adverse effect on BB&T. 

BB&T faces legal risks in its business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remains high. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against BB&T may have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to BB&T, which in turn could seriously harm BB&T’s business prospects. 

BB&T faces significant operational and other risks related to its activities, which could expose it to negative publicity, litigation and/or regulatory action. 

BB&T is exposed to many types of risks, including operational, reputational, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders (including identity and information theft), unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or telecommunications systems. Negative public opinion can result from BB&T’s actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, activities related to asset sales and balance sheet management and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect BB&T’s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it to litigation and regulatory action. 

Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. BB&T’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficult to detect. BB&T also may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or liability. BB&T is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors by their respective employees as is BB&T) and to the risk that BB&T’s (or its vendors’) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. 

26 

Table of Contents  

BB&T relies on other companies to provide certain key components of its business infrastructure. 

Third party vendors provide certain key components of BB&T’s business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and mutual fund distribution. While BB&T has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their operations. Any failure by these third parties to perform or provide agreed upon goods and services for any reason or their poor performance of services, could adversely affect BB&T’s ability to deliver products and services to its customers and otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. 

BB&T may not be able to successfully integrate bank or nonbank mergers and acquisitions. 

Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business and operations of BHCs, banks and other nonbank entities BB&T acquires and, as a result, BB&T may not be able to achieve the cost savings and synergies that it expects will result from such transactions. Achieving cost savings is dependent on consolidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for outside services. Additional operational savings are dependent upon the integration of the acquired or merged entity’s businesses with BB&T or one of BB&T’s subsidiaries, the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices. Complications or difficulties in the conversion of core operating systems, data systems and products may result in the loss of customers, damage to BB&T’s reputation within the financial services industry, operational problems, one-time costs currently not anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such mergers or acquisitions. Annual cost savings in each such transaction may be materially less than anticipated if the holding company, bank merger or nonbank merger or acquisition is delayed unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single set of data systems is not accomplished on a timely basis. 

Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause BB&T not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of BB&T’s businesses or the businesses of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect BB&T’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. In addition, BB&T could incur losses on acquired assets and increased expenses resulting from the failure to successfully integrate an acquired company. 

BB&T may not be able to successfully implement a new ERP system, which could adversely affect BB&T’s business operations and profitability.  

BB&T is investing significant resources in an enterprise-wide initiative aimed at implementing an integrated ERP financial platform, utilizing certain modules of SAP software. The ERP system is expected to be partially operational in 2014, and the remaining modules are expected to be fully operational in 2016. The objective of the new ERP system is to modernize and consolidate many of the existing systems that are currently used for a variety of functions throughout the Company, including both internal and external financial reporting. BB&T may not be able to successfully implement and integrate the new ERP system, which could adversely impact the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities. Such sanctions could include fines and suspension of trading in BB&T stock, among others. In addition, a number of core business processes including, but not limited to, remitting amounts owed to vendors, could be affected. The implementation could extend past the expected timing and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation. 

Failure to implement part or all of the ERP system could result in impairment charges that adversely impact BB&T’s financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. In addition, BB&T may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after the implementation, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time. 

27 

Table of Contents  

Strategic and Other Risk 

BB&T may experience significant competition in its market area, which may reduce its customer base or cause it to lower prices for its products and services in order to maintain market share. 

There is intense competition among commercial banks in BB&T’s market area. In addition, BB&T competes with other providers of financial services, such as savings and loan associations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full-service brokerage firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than BB&T is with respect to the products and services they provide. BB&T’s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to evolving industry standards and customer expectations. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. Lower prices can reduce BB&T’s NIM and revenues from its fee-based products and services. 

In addition, the adoption of new technologies by competitors, including internet banking services, mobile phone applications and advanced ATM functionality could require BB&T to make substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing products and services. Also, these and other capital investments in BB&T’s business may not produce expected growth in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. BB&T may not be successful in introducing new products and services, achieving market acceptance of its products and services, anticipating or reacting to consumers’ changing technological preferences or developing and maintaining loyal customers. 

Some of BB&T’s larger competitors, including certain national banks that have a significant presence in BB&T’s market area, may have greater capital and resources than BB&T, may have higher lending limits and may offer products and services not offered by BB&T. Any potential adverse reactions to BB&T’s financial condition or status in the marketplace, as compared to its competitors, could limit BB&T’s ability to attract and retain customers and to compete for new business opportunities. The inability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business may have a material and adverse effect on BB&T’s financial condition and results of operations. 

BB&T also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside of its market area. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer who can pay bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank. This “disintermediation” could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could adversely affect BB&T’s operations, and the Company may be unable to develop competitive new products and services in response to these changes on a timely basis or at all. 

BB&T may not be able to complete future acquisitions. 

BB&T must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions before it can complete an acquisition of another bank or BHC, including federal and/or state regulatory approvals. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition and future prospects, including current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence, experience and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution’s record of compliance under the CRA, the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities and protests from various stakeholders of both BB&T and its acquisition partner. Also, under the Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. regulators must now take systemic risk into account when evaluating whether to approve a potential acquisition transaction involving a large financial institution like BB&T. BB&T cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. In specific cases, BB&T may be required to sell banks or branches, or take other actions as a condition to receiving regulatory approval. An inability to satisfy other material conditions necessary to consummate an acquisition transaction, such as third-party litigation, a judicial order blocking the transaction or lack of shareholder approval, could also prevent BB&T from completing an announced acquisition. 

28 

Table of Contents  

Catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on BB&T. 

The occurrence of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornados, winter storms and other large scale catastrophes could adversely affect BB&T’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations. BB&T has operations and customers along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts as well as other parts of the southeastern United States, which could be adversely impacted by hurricanes and other severe weather in those regions. Unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on BB&T in that such events could materially disrupt its operations or the ability or willingness of its customers to access the financial services offered by BB&T. BB&T’s property and casualty insurance operations also expose it to claims arising out of catastrophes. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. Although BB&T carries insurance to mitigate its exposure to certain catastrophic events, these events could nevertheless reduce BB&T’s earnings and cause volatility in its financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect on BB&T’s financial condition and/or results of operations. 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES