ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

BB&T is a financial holding company headquartered in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. BB&T conducts its business operations primarily through its bank subsidiary, Branch Bank, and other nonbank subsidiaries. 

Operating Subsidiaries  

Principal operating subsidiaries include the following: 

 ·Branch Banking and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina  

 ·BB&T Securities, LLC, Richmond, Virginia 

 ·Regional Acceptance Corporation, Greenville, North Carolina  

 ·American Coastal Insurance Company, Davie, Florida  

 ·Sterling Capital Management, LLC, Charlotte, North Carolina  

Branch Bank, BB&T’s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina. Branch Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust services for retail and commercial clients in its geographic markets, including small and mid-size businesses, public agencies, local governments and individuals, through 1,825 offices (as of December 31, 2013). BB&T FSB was merged into Branch Bank effective January 1, 2013. Branch Bank’s principal operating subsidiaries include: 

 ·BB&T Equipment Finance Corporation, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which provides loan and lease financing to commercial and small businesses;  

 ·BB&T Insurance Services, Inc., headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, which offers property and casualty, life, health, employee benefits, commercial general liability, surety, title and other insurance products through its agency network;  

 ·BB&T Investment Services, Inc., a registered broker-dealer located in Charlotte, North Carolina, which offers clients non-deposit investment products, including discount brokerage services, equities, fixed-rate, variable-rate and index annuities, mutual funds, government and municipal bonds, and money market funds;  

 ·CRC Insurance Services, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do business nationwide; 

 ·Crump Life Insurance Services, Inc., based in Pennsylvania, which is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do business nationwide; 

 ·Grandbridge, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which specializes in arranging and servicing commercial mortgage loans; 

 ·McGriff, Seibels & Williams, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is authorized to do business nationwide and specializes in providing insurance products on an agency basis to large commercial clients, including many Fortune 500 companies; and 

 ·Prime Rate Premium Finance Corporation, Inc., located in Florence, South Carolina, and its subsidiaries, which include AFCO Credit Corporation, that provide insurance premium financing to clients in the United States and Canada. 

Major Nonbank Subsidiaries  

BB&T also has a number of nonbank subsidiaries, including: 

 ·American Coastal Insurance Company, an admitted Florida specialty insurance company that underwrites property insurance risks for commercial condominium or cooperative associations;  

7 

Table of Contents  

 ·BB&T Securities, LLC, which is a registered investment banking and full-service brokerage firm that provides services in retail brokerage, equity and debt underwriting, investment advice, corporate finance and equity research; and facilitates the origination, trading and distribution of fixed-income securities and equity products in both the public and private capital markets. BB&T Securities, LLC also provides correspondent clearing services to broker-dealers and entities involved in the securities industry; 

 ·Regional Acceptance Corporation, which specializes in indirect financing for consumer purchases of primarily mid-model and late-model used automobiles; and 

 ·Sterling Capital Management, LLC, a registered investment advisor, which provides tailored investment management solutions to meet the specific needs and objectives of individual and institutional clients through a full range of investment strategies. 

Services  

BB&T’s subsidiaries offer a variety of services targeted to retail and commercial clients. BB&T’s objective is to offer clients a full array of products to meet all their financial needs. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

8 

Table of Contents  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T operates in markets that have a diverse employment base covering numerous industries. Management strongly believes that BB&T’s community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company’s ability to effectively provide financial products and services to businesses and individuals in its markets. Furthermore, BB&T believes its current market area will support growth in assets and deposits in the future. 

Competition 

The financial services industry is highly competitive, and change continues to occur in all aspects of BB&T’s business. BB&T’s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and local financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies and insurance companies. Competition among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select from a variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives. The industry continues to consolidate, which affects competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, while strengthening the franchises of acquirers. For additional information concerning markets, BB&T’s competitive position and business strategies, and recent government interventions see “Market Area” above and “General Business Development” below. 

General Business Development  

BB&T is a regional financial holding company. BB&T has maintained a long-term focus on a strategy that includes expanding and diversifying its franchise in terms of revenues, profitability and asset size. This strategy has historically encompassed both organic growth and acquisitions of complementary banks and financial businesses. During recent years, BB&T has focused more on organic growth, but is well positioned for strategic opportunities. 

Merger and Acquisition Strategy  

BB&T’s growth in business, profitability and market share has historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and acquisitions. Management intends to remain disciplined and focused with regard to future merger and acquisition opportunities. BB&T will continue to assess bank and thrift acquisitions subject to market conditions, primarily within or contiguous to BB&T’s existing footprint, and will pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, specialized lending businesses, and fee income generating financial services businesses. BB&T’s strategy is currently focused on meeting the following three acquisition criteria: 

9 

Table of Contents  

 ·must be strategically attractive – meaning that any bank acquisition should be in BB&T’s existing footprint to allow for cost savings and economies of scale or in contiguous states to provide market diversification, or the transaction must be otherwise strategically compelling; 

 ·any risk-related issues would need to be addressed; and 

 ·must meet BB&T’s financial criteria. 

Regulatory Considerations  

The following discussion describes elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, FHCs and banks and contains specific information about BB&T. Regulation of banks, BHCs and FHCs is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the DIF and the stability of the financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors. As described in more detail below, comprehensive reform of the legislative and regulatory landscape occurred with the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and related rulemaking activities continued in 2013. In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory agencies, BB&T is subject to various other laws, regulations, supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect the operations and management of BB&T and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. 

BB&T’s earnings are affected by general economic conditions, management policies, changes in state and federal laws and regulations and actions of various regulatory authorities, including those referred to in this section. Proposals to change the laws and regulations to which BB&T is subject are frequently introduced at both the federal and state levels. The likelihood and timing of any such changes and the impact such changes may have on BB&T is impossible to determine with any certainty. The description herein summarizes the significant state and federal laws to which BB&T currently is subject. To the extent statutory or regulatory provisions are described in this section, such descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions. 

Financial Regulatory Reform  

During the past several years, there has been a significant increase in regulation and regulatory oversight for U.S. financial services firms, primarily resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act is extensive, complicated and comprehensive legislation that impacts practically all aspects of a banking organization, representing a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act implements numerous and far-reaching changes that affect financial companies, including banks, BHCs and FHCs such as BB&T, by, among other things: 

 ·requiring regulation and oversight of large, systemically important financial institutions by establishing an interagency council on systemic risk and implementation of heightened prudential standards and regulation by the FRB for systemically important financial institutions (including nonbank financial companies), as well as the implementation of the FDIC resolution procedures for liquidation of large financial companies to avoid market disruption; 

 ·applying the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most BHCs, savings and loan holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies; 

 ·limiting the FRB’s emergency authority to lend to nondepository institutions to facilities with broad-based eligibility, and authorizing the FDIC to establish an emergency financial stabilization fund for solvent depository institutions and their holding companies, subject to the approval of Congress, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury and the FRB; 

 ·centralizing responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating an independent agency, the CFPB, with responsibility for implementing, enforcing and examining compliance with federal consumer financial laws; 

 ·creating regimes for regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and non-admitted property and casualty insurers and reinsurers; 

10 

Table of Contents  

 ·requiring that any interchange transaction fee charged for a debit transaction be “reasonable and proportional” to the cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction, with regulations that establish such fee standards, eliminating exclusivity arrangements between issuers and networks for debit card transactions and limiting restrictions on merchant discounting for use of certain payment forms and minimum or maximum amount thresholds as a condition for acceptance of credit cards; 

 ·implementing regulation of hedge fund and private equity advisers by requiring such advisers to register with the SEC; 

 ·providing for the implementation of certain corporate governance provisions for all public companies concerning executive compensation; 

 ·increasing the FDIC’s deposit insurance limits permanently to $250,000 for non-transaction accounts and changing the assessment base as well as increasing the reserve ratio for the DIF to ensure the future strength of the DIF; and 

 ·reforming regulation of credit rating agencies. 

Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by the applicable federal regulators. BB&T will continue to evaluate the impact of any new regulations so promulgated, including changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others. 

As a BHC and an FHC under federal law, BB&T is subject to regulation under the BHCA and the examination and reporting requirements of the FRB. Branch Bank, a North Carolina state-chartered commercial bank, is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC and the CFPB. 

State and federal law govern the activities in which Branch Bank engages, the investments it makes and the aggregate amount of loans that may be granted to one borrower. Various consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect its operations. Branch Bank also is affected by the actions of the FRB as it attempts to control the monetary supply and credit availability in order to influence the economy. 

In addition to federal and state banking laws and regulations, BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including those that engage in securities underwriting, dealing, brokerage, investment advisory and insurance activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations, and supervision and examination by other state and federal regulatory agencies and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, FINRA, NYSE and various state insurance and securities regulators. 

FHC Regulation  

Under current federal law, as a BHC, BB&T has elected to become an FHC, which allows it to offer customers virtually any type of service that is financial in nature or incidental thereto, including banking and activities closely related thereto, securities underwriting, insurance (both underwriting and agency) and merchant banking. In order to qualify and maintain its status as an FHC, an FHC and all of its affiliated depository institutions must be well-capitalized and well-managed and have at least a satisfactory CRA rating. If the FRB determines that an FHC is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the company has a period of time to comply, but during the period of noncompliance, the FRB can place any limitations on the FHC that it believes to be appropriate. Furthermore, if the FRB determines that an FHC has not maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the company will not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities, although the company will still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting merchant banking activities. 

Most of the financial activities that are permissible for FHCs also are permissible for a bank’s “financial subsidiary,” except for insurance underwriting, insurance company portfolio investments, real estate investments and development, and merchant banking, which must be conducted in an FHC. In order for a financial subsidiary of a bank to engage in permissible financial activities, federal law requires the parent bank (and its sister-bank affiliates) to be well-capitalized and well-managed; the aggregate consolidated assets of all of that bank’s financial subsidiaries may not exceed the lesser of 45% of its consolidated total assets or $50 billion; the bank must have at least a satisfactory CRA rating; and, if that bank is one of the 100 largest national banks, it must meet certain financial rating or other comparable requirements. 

11 

Table of Contents  

Current federal law also establishes a system of functional regulation under which the FRB is the umbrella regulator for BHCs, but BHC affiliates are principally regulated by functional regulators such as the FDIC for state nonmember bank affiliates, the SEC for securities affiliates and state insurance regulators for insurance affiliates. Certain specific activities, including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities may be conducted in the bank without the bank being deemed a “broker” or a “dealer” in securities for purposes of functional regulation. Although states generally must regulate bank insurance activities in a nondiscriminatory manner, states may continue to adopt and enforce rules that specifically regulate bank insurance activities in certain identifiable areas. 

The Dodd-Frank Act establishes additional regulation for BHCs, which generally apply to BB&T. The Council is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to monitor emerging risks to financial stability, recommend heightened prudential standards for large, interconnected financial companies and require certain nonbank financial companies to be supervised by the FRB if their activities are determined to pose a risk to financial stability. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes new prudential regulation on depository institutions and their holding companies. The law imposes new, more stringent standards and requirements with respect to (1) bank and nonbank acquisitions and mergers, (2) FHCs engaged in “financial activities,” (3) affiliate transactions and (4) proprietary trading, among other provisions. 

Enhanced Supervision Standards for Systemically Important Financial Institutions 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to establish enhanced supervision and prudential standards applicable to large, interconnected financial institutions, including BHCs like BB&T, with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more (often referred to as systemically important financial institutions). In December 2012, the FRB published a notice of proposed rulemaking to implement the enhanced prudential standards required to be established under section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act and the early remediation requirements established under section 166 of the Dodd-Frank Act for foreign banking organizations and foreign nonbank financial companies supervised by the FRB. The enhanced prudential standards include risk-based capital and leverage requirements, liquidity standards, risk management and risk committee requirements, single-counterparty credit limits, stress test requirements and a debt-to-equity limit for companies that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has determined pose a grave threat to financial stability. In February 2014, the FRB issued the final rule on enhanced prudential standards. 

Resolution Planning 

FRB and FDIC regulations require “covered companies” such as BB&T and systemically important financial institutions such as Branch Bank to file, maintain and update plans for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure (a “living will”). Both the FRB and the FDIC must review and approve BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s living wills and are authorized to impose restrictions on BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s growth and activities or operations if deemed necessary. BB&T’s initial plans were submitted to the FRB and the FDIC in December 2013, and the public portion of the submission is available in the Additional Disclosures section of the Investor Relations site at www.bbt.com/about. Following the initial submission, BB&T is required to submit annual resolution plans by December 31 of each subsequent year. 

CCAR and Stress Test Requirements 

Current FRB rules require BHCs such as BB&T with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets to submit annual capital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios. Such BHCs will also be required to collect and report certain related data on a quarterly basis to allow the FRB to monitor the companies’ progress against their annual capital plans. Covered BHCs, including BB&T, may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the FRB and as to which the FRB has not objected. The rules also require, among other things, that a covered BHC may not make a capital distribution unless, after giving effect to the distribution, it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and have a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%. BB&T submitted its 2013 capital plan for review in January 2013 and was notified by the FRB in March 2013 that the FRB did not object to the continuation of dividend payments in the same amount as first quarter dividends, and that the FRB had no objection to the continued payment of preferred dividends; however the FRB did object to certain other elements of BB&T’s capital plan which were unrelated to BB&T’s capital strength, earnings power or financial condition. BB&T submitted a revised capital plan to the FRB in June 2013 and the FRB subsequently notified BB&T in August 2013 that it had no objection to the revised capital plan. 

12 

Table of Contents  

In addition to the CCAR process, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to conduct an annual supervisory stress test for BHCs such as BB&T with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets and to conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests. In October 2012, the FRB adopted final stress testing rules for covered BHCs that describe the types of supervisory scenarios that may be provided in connection with the annual CCAR process and require that BB&T (as well as other covered BHCs) conduct a separate mid-year stress test, file the results of such test with the FRB in early July and publicly disclose details of the scenario and the impact on BHC capital by the end of September of each year. On September 20, 2013, BB&T released the results of its company-run midcycle stress test, which are available in the Additional Disclosures section of the Investor Relations site on www.bbt.com/about. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the FDIC to conduct an annual supervisory stress test for FDIC-insured state nonmember banks such as Branch Bank with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets and requires such institutions to conduct annual company-run stress tests. The FDIC adopted final annual stress testing rules in October 2012. The results of the annual supervisory stress test are included in the annual capital plan submitted to the FDIC. 

Acquisitions  

BB&T complies with numerous laws related to its acquisition activity. Under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any BHC or bank or merge or consolidate with another BHC without the prior approval of the FRB. Current federal law authorizes interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic limitation. Furthermore, a bank headquartered in one state is authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state, subject to any state requirement that the target bank shall have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years; and subject to certain deposit market-share limitations. After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have established or acquired branches under applicable federal or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to privately negotiated acquisition transactions. 

Other Safety and Soundness Regulations  

The FRB has enforcement powers over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries. The FRB has authority to prohibit activities that represent unsafe or unsound practices or constitute violations of law, rule, regulation, administrative order or written agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of cease and desist orders, civil money penalties or other actions. 

There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed on BHCs and their depository institution subsidiaries by federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce potential loss exposure to the depositors of such depository institutions and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event the depository institution is insolvent or is in danger of becoming insolvent. For example, under requirements of the FRB with respect to BHC operations, a BHC is required to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institutions and to commit financial resources to support such institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. In addition, the “cross-guarantee” provisions of federal law require insured depository institutions under common control to reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered or reasonably anticipated by the DIF as a result of the insolvency of commonly controlled insured depository institutions or for any assistance provided by the FDIC to commonly controlled insured depository institutions in danger of failure. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provision if it determines that a waiver is in the best interests of the DIF. The FDIC’s claim for reimbursement under the cross-guarantee provisions is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or its holding company but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and nonaffiliated holders of subordinated debt of the commonly controlled insured depository institution. 

Federal and state banking regulators also have broad enforcement powers over Branch Bank, including the power to impose fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a receiver in order to conserve the assets of any such institution for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The North Carolina Commissioner of Banks also has the authority to take possession of a North Carolina state bank in certain circumstances, including, among other things, when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock. 

13 

Table of Contents  

Payment of Dividends; Capital Requirements  

The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from Branch Bank and its subsidiaries. The majority of the Parent Company’s revenue is from dividends paid by Branch Bank. Branch Bank is subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends it can pay. In addition, BB&T and Branch Bank are subject to various regulatory restrictions relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital at or above regulatory minimums, and to remain “well-capitalized” under the prompt corrective action regulations summarized elsewhere in this section. Federal banking regulators have indicated that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only if (1) the organization’s net income available to common shareholders over the past year has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and (2) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. BB&T’s 2014 capital actions will depend on the FRB’s review of BB&T’s 2014 capital plan, which was submitted in January 2014. 

North Carolina law states that, provided a bank does not make distributions that reduce its capital below its applicable required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as the directors deem proper. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The federal banking agencies, including the FRB and the FDIC, are required to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions and their BHCs that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five capital categories for insured depository institutions for this purpose: “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized.” To be considered “well-capitalized” under these standards, an institution must maintain the ratios shown above and must not be subject to any order or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 

Federal law also requires the bank regulatory agencies to implement systems for “prompt corrective action” for institutions that fail to meet minimum capital requirements within the five capital categories, with progressively more severe restrictions on operations, management and capital distributions according to the category in which an institution is placed. Additionally, failure to meet capital requirements may cause an institution to be directed to raise additional capital. Federal law further mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation, and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards. 

In addition to the “prompt corrective action” directives, failure to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver. 

14 

Table of Contents  

U.S. Implementation of Basel III 

In July 2013, the FRB published final rules establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. These rules implement the BCBS's December 2010 framework, known as “Basel III,” for strengthening international capital standards as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to BHCs and depository institutions, including BB&T and Branch Bank, compared to the current U.S. risk-based capital rules. The rules define the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios. The rules also address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing risk-weighting approach, which was derived from Basel I capital accords of the BCBS, with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the standardized approach in the BCBS's 2004 “Basel II” capital accords. The Basel III rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal banking agencies' rules. At December 31, 2013, BB&T would be considered a standardized approach banking organization and must comply with the new requirements beginning on January 1, 2015. Institutions with greater than $250 billion in assets or $10 billion in foreign assets would be considered an advanced approach banking organization, which requires a more conservative calculation of risk-weighted assets, with a compliance date of January 1, 2014. 

The Basel III rules, among other things, (1) introduce a new capital measure referred to as common equity Tier 1; (2) specify that Tier 1 capital consist of Tier 1 common equity and additional Tier 1 capital instruments meeting specified requirements; (3) define Tier 1 common equity narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to Tier 1 common equity and not to the other components of capital; and (4) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments from capital as compared to existing regulations. 

The Basel III rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weightings that expand the risk-weighting categories from the current four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. More conservative risk-weighting of certain residential mortgage loans and the requirement to recognize in capital the value of unrecognized gains and losses in AFS securities were not retained. In addition, the rules provide more advantageous risk weights for derivatives and repurchase-style transactions cleared through a qualifying central counterparty and increase the scope of eligible guarantors and eligible collateral for purposes of credit risk mitigation. 

The Basel III rules revise the “prompt corrective action” directives by establishing certain ratio levels for well-capitalized status. In addition to the minimum risk-based capital requirements, all banks must hold additional capital, the capital conservation buffer, to avoid being subject to limits on capital distributions, such as dividend payments, discretionary payments on Tier 1 instruments, share buybacks, and certain discretionary bonus payments to executive officers, including heads of major business lines and similar employees. The required amount of the capital conservation buffer will be phased-in annually through January 1, 2019. 

In November 2013, the FDIC, FRB and OCC released a joint statement providing a notice of proposed rulemaking concerning the U.S. implementation of the liquidity coverage ratio rule. BB&T is currently evaluating the impact and has developed a program to ensure compliance with the applicable requirements. BB&T is implementing balance sheet changes to support its compliance with the rule. These actions include changing the mix of its investment portfolio to include more GNMA and U.S. Treasury securities, which qualify as Level 1 under the rule, and changing its deposit mix to reduce public funds deposits and increase retail and commercial deposits. 

The following table summarizes the capital requirements and BB&T’s internal targets under Basel III: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Represents BB&T’s goal upon the effective date of Basel III on January 1, 2015.  

15 

Table of Contents  

Volcker Rule 

In December 2010, five federal agencies issued final rules developed jointly to implement section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the "Volcker rule"). The final rules prohibit insured depository institutions and affiliated companies ("banking entities") from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, and commodity futures, and options on these instruments, for their own account. The final rules also impose limits on banking entities' investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds or private equity funds. Like the Dodd-Frank Act, the final rules provide exemptions for certain activities, including market making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government obligations, insurance company activities, and organizing and offering hedge funds or private equity funds. The final rules also clarify that certain activities are not prohibited, including acting as agent, broker, or custodian. 

The compliance requirements under the final rules vary based on the size of the banking entity and the scope of activities conducted. Banking entities with significant trading operations will be required to establish a detailed compliance program, and their Chief Executive Officers will be required to attest that the program is reasonably designed to achieve compliance with the final rules. Independent testing and analysis of an institution's compliance program also will be required. The final rules reduce the burden on smaller, less-complex institutions by limiting their compliance and reporting requirements. Additionally, a banking entity that does not engage in covered trading activities will not need to establish a compliance program. The FRB announced that banking organizations covered by Dodd-Frank Act section 619 will be required to fully conform their activities and investments by July 21, 2015. These requirements are not expected to have a material impact on BB&T’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Deposit Insurance Assessments  

Branch Bank’s deposits are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the limits set forth under applicable law. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system, which was amended pursuant to the Reform Act and further amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under this system, as amended, the assessment rates for an insured depository institution are determined by an assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elements to measure the risk each institution poses to the DIF. The new assessment rate is applied to total average assets less tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time, at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. The FDIC has published guidelines under the Reform Act on the adjustment of assessment rates for certain institutions. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. 

Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 

In connection with its lending and leasing activities, Branch Bank is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and their respective state law counterparts. 

CFPB 

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new, independent federal agency, the CFPB, which was granted broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consumer financial protection laws, including the laws referenced above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in assets, their service providers and certain non-depository entities such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies. The CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products. The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower’s ability to repay. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any loan other than a “qualified mortgage” as defined by the CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and standards that are more stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. 

16 

Table of Contents  

The CFPB has concentrated much of its rulemaking efforts on a variety of mortgage-related topics required under the Dodd-Frank Act, including mortgage origination disclosures, minimum underwriting standards and ability to repay, high-cost mortgage lending, and servicing practices. In January 2013, the CFPB finalized rules covering loan origination and servicing requirements along with other rules on mortgages. The rules related to ability to repay, qualified mortgage standards and mortgage servicing became effective in January 2014. The escrow and loan originator compensation rules became effective in June 2013. A final rule integrating disclosure required by the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act became effective in November 2013, although implementation of this final rule has been delayed. As a result of these rules, BB&T transferred the management of certain home equity loans from direct retail lending within the Community Banking segment to the Residential Mortgage Banking segment. BB&T continues to analyze the other impacts that such rules may have on its business. 

Interchange Fees 

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB adopted rules during 2011 establishing standards for assessing whether the interchange fees that may be charged with respect to certain electronic debit transactions are “reasonable and proportional” to the costs incurred by issuers for such transactions. Interchange fees, or “swipe” fees, are charges that merchants pay to BB&T and other card-issuing banks for processing electronic payment transactions. Under the final rules, the maximum permissible interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction will be the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction. An additional 1 cent per transaction fraud prevention adjustment is available to those issuers that comply with certain standards outlined by the FRB. 

During July 2013, a U.S. Federal District Court judge ruled against the debit card interchange fee limits imposed by the FRB, resulting in the potential for further reductions to these caps. If upheld, the revised limits are expected to reduce BB&T’s annual revenue by approximately $80 million to $110 million. The FRB filed for an expedited appeal that was heard before the circuit court during January 2014. It is uncertain when the court will issue its opinion; however, the current regulation has been stayed during the appeal. 

Privacy 

Federal law currently contains extensive customer privacy protection provisions, including substantial customer privacy protections provided under the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (commonly known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act). Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, at the inception of the customer relationship and annually thereafter, the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the handling of customers’ nonpublic personal financial information. These provisions also provide that, except for certain limited exceptions, an institution may not provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means. 

CRA 

The CRA requires Branch Bank’s primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” This assessment is reviewed for any bank that applies to merge or consolidate with or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of an insured depository institution, or to open or relocate a branch office. The CRA record of each subsidiary bank of a financial holding company, such as BB&T, also is assessed by the FRB in connection with any acquisition or merger application. 

17 

Table of Contents  

Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation  

The FRB and FDIC have enacted consumer protection regulations related to automated overdraft payment programs offered by financial institutions. Regulation E prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those types of transactions. Financial institutions must also provide consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service and the consumer’s choices. In addition, FDIC-supervised institutions must monitor overdraft payment programs for “excessive or chronic” customer use and undertake “meaningful and effective” follow-up action with customers that overdraw their accounts more than six times during a rolling 12-month period. Financial institutions must also impose daily limits on overdraft charges, review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from available overdraft coverage amounts and ensure board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs. 

Patriot Act  

The Patriot Act contains anti-money laundering measures affecting insured depository institutions, broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the IMLAFA, which requires such financial institutions to implement policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on financial institutions’ operations. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. The U.S. Treasury has issued a number of regulations to implement the Patriot Act, which impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The obligations of financial institutions under the Patriot Act have increased and may continue to increase. The increase in obligations of financial institutions has resulted in increased costs for BB&T, which may continue to rise, and also may subject BB&T to additional liability. 

Other Regulatory Matters  

BB&T is subject to numerous examinations by federal and state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, the FINRA, the NYSE, various taxing authorities and various state insurance and securities regulators. BB&T has periodically received requests for information from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory authorities, concerning their business and accounting practices. Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2013, BB&T had approximately 33,700 full-time equivalent employees compared to approximately 34,000 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2012. 

Website Access to BB&T’s Filings with the SEC 

All of BB&T’s electronic filings with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost in the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website, www.bbt.com/about, as soon as reasonably practicable after BB&T files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. BB&T’s SEC filings are also available through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. 

18 

Table of Contents  

Corporate Governance  

Information with respect to BB&T’s Board of Directors, Executive Officers and corporate governance policies and principles is presented on BB&T’s website, www.bbt.com/about, and includes: 

 ·Corporate Governance Guidelines 

 ·Corporate Board of Directors 

 ·Committees of the Corporate Board of Directors and Committee Charters 

 ·Codes of Ethics for Directors, Senior Financial Officers and Associates 

 ·Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Certifications 

 ·Executive Officers 

 ·Policy and Procedures for Accounting, Securities and Legal Complaints, including Whistleblower Procedures 

 ·Statement of Political Activity 

BB&T intends to disclose any substantive amendments or waivers to the Codes of Ethics for Directors or Senior Financial Officers on BB&T’s website at www.bbt.com/about. 

19 

Table of Contents  

Executive Officers of BB&T  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

__________ 

(1) Mr. Greene is expected to retire on March 31, 2014.  

20 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS