Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Critical Accounting Policies  

In order to understand better the changes that occur to key elements of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, a reader of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) should be aware of the critical accounting policies we apply in preparing our consolidated financial statements.  

The consolidated financial statements contained in this report were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and the financial statements of any business performing long-term engineering and construction-type contracts requires management to make certain estimates and judgments that affect both the entity’s results of operations and the carrying values of its assets and liabilities. Although our significant accounting polices are described in Note 2—Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following discussion is intended to highlight and describe those accounting policies that are especially critical to the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Accounting for Contracts and Use of Joint Ventures—In general, we recognize revenues at the time we provide services. Depending on the commercial terms of the contract, we recognize revenues either when costs are incurred, or using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting by relating contract costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion. This method of revenue recognition requires us to prepare estimates of costs to complete contracts in progress. In making such estimates, judgments are required to evaluate contingencies such as potential variances in schedule; the cost of materials and labor; productivity; and the impact of change orders, liability claims, contract disputes, and achievement of contractual performance standards. Many of our engineering and construction contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fixed or percentage fee. In some of the markets we serve there is an increasing trend towards cost-reimbursable contracts with incentive-fee arrangements. In certain instances, we base our incentive fees on achievement of target completion dates, target costs, and/or other performance criteria. Failure to meet these targets or increases in contract costs can result in unrealized incentive fees or non-recoverable costs, which could exceed revenues recognized from the project.  

We provide for contract losses in their entirety in the period they become known, without regard to the percentage of completion.  

The nature of our business sometimes results in clients, subcontractors or vendors presenting claims to us for recovery of costs they incurred in excess of what they expected to incur, or for which they believe they are not contractually responsible. In those situations where a claim against us may result in additional costs to the contract, we include in the total estimated costs of the contract (and therefore, the estimated amount of margin to be earned under the contract) an estimate, based on all relevant facts and circumstances available, of the additional costs to be incurred. Similarly, and in the normal course of business, we may present claims to our clients for costs we have incurred for which we believe we are not contractually responsible. In those situations where we have presented such claims to our clients, we include in revenues the amount of costs incurred, without profit, to the extent it is probable that the claims will result in additional contract revenue, and the amount of such additional revenue can be reliably estimated. Costs associated with unapproved change orders are included in revenues using substantially the same criteria used for claims.  

Certain cost-reimbursable contracts with government customers as well as certain commercial clients provide that contract costs are subject to audit and adjustment. In this situation, revenues are recorded at the time services are performed based upon the amounts we expect to realize upon completion of the contracts. In those situations where an audit indicates that we may have billed a client for costs that are not allowable under the terms of the contract, we estimate the amount of such nonbillable costs and adjust our revenues accordingly.  

34  

Table of Contents 

As is common in the industry, we execute certain contracts jointly with third parties through various forms of joint ventures and consortiums. For certain of these joint ventures (i.e., where we have an undivided interest in the assets and liabilities of the venture), we recognize our proportionate share of joint venture revenues, costs and operating profit in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. For other investments in engineering and construction joint ventures, we use the equity method of accounting.  

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and Others—We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the estimated grant-date fair value of the award.  

We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to compute the grant date fair value of awards of equity instruments. The Black-Scholes model requires the use of highly subjective assumptions in order to compute the hypothetical fair value of a stock option. Changes in these assumptions can cause drastically different values being assigned to a stock option. The value assigned to any stock options that may be awarded in the future as well as the related expense associated with any such awards will be dependent on the assumptions used at the time of award.  

Accounting for Pension Plans—The accounting for pension plans requires the use of assumptions and estimates in order to calculate periodic pension cost and the value of the plans’ assets and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, investment returns, and projected salary increases, among others. The actuarial assumptions used in determining the funded statuses of the plans are provided in Note 7—Pension Plans of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

The expected rates of return on plan assets for fiscal 2010 ranged from 2.2% to 8.0%; this compares to a range of 2.3% to 8.0% for fiscal 2009. We believe the range of rates we applied for fiscal 2010 reflects the long-term returns expected on the plans’ assets, considering recent market conditions, projected rates of inflation, the diversification of the plans’ assets, and the expected real rates of market returns. The discount rates used to compute plan liabilities were changed from a range of 2.5% to 5.6% in fiscal 2009 to a range of 2.1% to 5.1% in fiscal 2010. These assumptions represent the Company’s best estimate of the rates at which its pension obligations could be effectively settled.  

Changes in the actuarial assumptions often have a material affect on the values assigned to plan assets and liabilities, and the associated pension expense. For example, if the discount rate used to value the our net pension benefit obligation (“PBO”) at October 1, 2010 was higher (lower) by 1.0%, the PBO would have been lower (higher) at that date by approximately $182.0 million, and the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2010 would be lower (higher) by approximately $7.0 million. Similarly, if the expected return on plan assets were increased (decreased) by 1.0%, the net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2011 would decrease (increase) by approximately $7.9 million. Differences between actuarial assumptions and actual performance (i.e., actuarial gains and losses) that are not recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost in the period in which such differences arise are recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized as part of net periodic pension cost in future periods in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management monitors trends in the marketplace within which our pension plans operate in an effort to assure the fairness of the actuarial assumptions used.  

Contractual Guarantees, Litigation, Investigations, and Insurance—In the normal course of business, we are subject to certain contractual guarantees and litigation. The guarantees to which we are a party generally relate to project schedules and plant performance. Most of the litigation in which we are involved has us as a defendant in workers’ compensation; personal injury; environmental; employment/labor; professional liability; and other similar lawsuits. We maintain insurance coverage for various aspects of our business and operations. We have elected, however, to retain a portion of losses that occur through the use of various deductibles, limits, and retentions under our insurance programs. This situation may subject us to some future liability for which we are only partially insured, or completely uninsured, and we intend to mitigate any such future liability by continuing to exercise prudent business judgment in negotiating the terms and conditions of our contracts.  

35  

Table of Contents 

In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we record in our Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts representing our estimated liability relating to such guarantees, litigation, and insurance claims. We include any adjustments to such insurance reserves in our consolidated results of operations.  

In addition, as a contractor providing services to the United States federal government and several of its agencies, we are subject to many levels of audits, investigations, and claims by, or on behalf of, the U.S. federal government with respect to contract performance, pricing, costs, cost allocations, and procurement practices. We adjust revenues based upon the amounts we expect to realize considering the effects of any client audits or governmental investigations.  

Testing Goodwill for Possible Impairment—The goodwill carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets is tested annually for possible impairment. In performing the annual impairment test, we evaluate our goodwill at the reporting unit level. We have determined that we have two reporting units, which are based on geography. We refer to these reporting units internally as “Europe” and “Non-Europe”. Each of our reporting units conducts the business activities described elsewhere in this 2010 Form 10-K, which includes providing professional technical services such as design, engineering, and architectural services; construction and/or construction management services; and maintenance and operations services.  

Our geography-based reporting units reflect the Company’s organizational structure, which is based predominately on geography, as well as our acquisition strategy, which favors acquisition targets that, among other things, provide access to new geographic areas. Our reporting units represent rational groupings into which substantially all of our major acquisitions (which are responsible for the goodwill appearing in our consolidated balance sheet) have been assimilated, and all of the operations under each reporting unit share in the benefits of the goodwill created by our acquisitions.  

U.S. GAAP does not prescribe a specific valuation method for estimating the fair value of reporting units. We determined that a market approach is an appropriate method for valuing our reporting units in light of its common use as a technique for valuing businesses in general. Using this method, the fair value of our reporting units was estimated by multiplying their respective after-tax earnings for the trailing twelve months by the Company’s overall average market earnings multiple. Since the activities of each reporting unit approximates that of the Company overall, we concluded that the use of the Company’s market multiple for purposes of applying the market-based valuation approach was reasonable. We also believe that the use of this multiple is appropriate considering that both reporting units have qualitative characteristics that are generally consistent with those of the parent company. Those characteristics include size in terms of resources (i.e., personnel); a large, diverse client base; broad geographic reach; and a broad range of design, engineering, and construction and construction management capabilities.  

The determination of reporting units and the selection of the valuation technique used to estimate the fair value of the reporting units requires the exercise of judgment by management. The fair values resulting from the valuation technique used are not necessarily representative of the values we might obtain in a sale of the reporting units to willing third parties.  

As mentioned above, the key inputs used in the valuation model are the after-tax earnings of our reporting units and the Company’s market-driven average earnings multiple. The multiples used for fiscal 2010, 2009, and 2008 were approximately 14, 15, and 31, respectively. In the event either the after-tax earnings of the Company’s reporting units or the Company’s market earnings multiples decline significantly after the date the annual impairment test is performed, the Company will re-perform the test at a date closer to fiscal year-end.  

Based on the most recent results of our annual impairment tests, there were no indications of impairment of the goodwill shown in our Consolidated Balance Sheets for fiscal years 2010 and 2009.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Changes in the inputs used in our valuation model (i.e., declines in the Company’s average earnings multiple or the after-tax earnings of our reporting units) could result in an indication of possible impairment of goodwill in the future.  

Fiscal 2010—Overview  

There were two events that occurred during fiscal 2010 that significantly affected the comparability of the Company’s consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 to its consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2009 and 2008:  

   •    The Houston Sublease—In response to the continuing effects brought on by the global recession, the Company initiated certain cost reduction measures during fiscal 2009. As part of those measures, we ceased using one of our offices located in Houston, Texas, and entered into a sublease for the entire property. This transaction occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Accordingly, included in net earnings for fiscal 2010 is a pre-tax charge of $11.4 million relating to this real estate transaction. Net of the effects on the Company’s incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the Houston Sublease resulted in a net, after-tax charge of $5.8 million, or $0.04 per diluted share.  

   •    The SIVOM Judgment—During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we received an unfavorable court judgment relating to a waste incineration project in France for the SIVOM de Mulhousienne (“SIVOM”). The SIVOM project was performed by a consortium of contractors that was led by one of our subsidiaries under a contract that was entered into in 1996, prior to our acquisition of that subsidiary. As a result of the judgment, we recorded a pre-tax charge to earnings of approximately $93.3 million. Included in this amount is a $25.9 million write-off of a claim receivable. The balance of the charge reflects the cash payments the Company made to the SIVOM, net of cash payments the Company received. Net of the effects of the charge on the Company’s long-term incentive bonus plan and income taxes, the effect on net earnings attributable to Jacobs was approximately $60.3 million, or $0.48 per diluted share.  

In this MD&A, we discuss and analyze the Company’s results of operations for fiscal 2010 before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment. Although such information is non-U.S. GAAP in nature, it is presented because Management believes it provides a better view of the Company’s operating results for the readers of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to assess the Company’s performance and operating trends.  

37  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents (i) the Company’s consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment (which is non-U.S. GAAP); (ii) the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Litigation; and (iii) the Company’s consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2010 in accordance with U.S. GAAP (in thousands, except earnings per share):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s operating results for fiscal 2010 continue to be impacted by the global recession which began affecting the Company during the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The recession has caused many of our private sector clients to re-examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. These economic conditions have also had a negative effect on many of our public sector clients as we have seen spending reductions by federal and state governments and the delay and curtailment of key infrastructure programs.  

The decline in revenues during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 occurred in most of the industries and markets we serve. With respect to the various categories of services we provide, the decline in revenues was more prevalent in the Field Services area of our business, and reflects the general decrease during the year in the amount of pass-through costs we incurred on our projects.  

As discussed in last year’s MD&A, we implemented certain cost-control measures last year in response to the effects of the recession. We reduced personnel and closed or re-configured a number of our offices. The results of these actions contributed to a $10.5 million reduction in selling, general, and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses. Although we continue to look for opportunities to reduce or minimize our operating costs, there is no guaranty that we will be able to identify additional opportunities and make further reductions.  

On the other hand, we are a very diversified business. We provide a wide-range of services to customers operating in a wide range of industries and markets. Accordingly, we continue to believe that as the global economy begins to recover, and depending on which industries and markets start their recovery first, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on whatever increased capital spending occurs, both domestically and  

38  

Table of Contents 

 internationally. Our cash and cash equivalents totaled $938.8 million at October 1, 2010. Our debt-to-equity ratio was 2.8% at the end of fiscal 2010, and we have over $257.1 million available under our various credit facilities.  

Results of Operations  

General  

Our business focuses exclusively on providing technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients around the world. The services we provide generally fall into four broad categories:  

   •    Project Services (which includes engineering, design, architectural, and similar services);  

   •    Process, Scientific, and Systems Consulting services (which includes services performed in connection with a wide variety of scientific testing, analysis, and consulting activities);  

   •    Construction services (which encompasses traditional field construction services as well as modular construction activities, and includes direct-hire construction and construction management services); and  

   •    Operations and Maintenance services (which includes services performed in connection with operating large, complex facilities on behalf of clients as well as services involving process plant maintenance).  

The scope of services we can provide our clients, therefore, ranges from consulting and conceptual design services (which are often required by clients in the very early stages of a project) to complete single-responsibility, design-build contracts, to services required in the post start-up phases of a project such as maintenance and operations services.  

The following table sets forth our revenues by type of service for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment.  

39  

Table of Contents 

We focus our services on clients operating in certain industry groups and markets. We believe these industry groups and markets have sufficient common needs to permit cross-utilization of our resources. The following table sets forth our revenues by these industry groups and markets for each of the last three fiscal years (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Before the effects of the SIVOM Judgment.  

 (b) Beginning in fiscal 2010, the industry group formerly called “Energy & Refining—Downstream” has been renamed “Refining—Downstream”, and revenues relating to projects for customers in the power industry have been reclassified to the category “Industrial and Other”. “Industrial and Other” now includes revenues from projects for our clients operating in the power; technology and manufacturing; pulp and paper; food and consumer products; and basic resources industries, among others. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation.  

 (c) Beginning in fiscal 2010, revenues relating to buildings projects performed for the U.S. federal government have been reclassified from the “National Government Programs” industry group to the “Buildings” market. Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to this new presentation  

Fiscal 2010 (before the effects of the Houston Sublease and the SIVOM Judgment) Compared to Fiscal 2009  

We recorded net earnings of $312.1 million, or $2.48 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010, compared to net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for fiscal 2009.  

Revenues for the fiscal year ended October 1, 2010 totaled $9.9 billion, and represents a decrease of $1.5 billion, or 13.3%, as compared to $11.5 billion for fiscal 2009.  

Revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for clients operating in many of the industry groups and markets we serve were significantly lower as compared to fiscal 2009. The larger decreases occurred in the Refining—Downstream; Oil & Gas—Upstream; and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industry groups and markets. These declines relate to the normal winding-down and completion of large projects, combined with the lack of new project awards. These industry groups and markets have also been significantly impacted by the global recession, causing many clients to re-examine their capital expenditure plans resulting in the delay in the release of new projects, and, in certain instances, cancellations of projects awarded to us previously. Also contributing to the decline in revenues within these industry groups and markets was a $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, decrease in pass-through costs (discussed below).  

In contrast, revenues during fiscal 2010 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $165.9 million, or 7.7%, as compared to last year. Most of the increase relates to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, other technical services projects.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Similarly, revenues during fiscal 2010 relating to Buildings projects increased by $76.2 million, or 9.6%, as compared to last year. The increase relates to spending for the design of technical buildings.  

For the fiscal year 2010 we earned $176.8 million in revenues for projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.  

Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.4 billion, or 14.0%, to $8.5 billion, compared to $9.9 billion for fiscal 2009. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass-through costs we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third-party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as “pass-through costs”). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not considered pass-through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass-through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well.  

Pass-through costs for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.3 billion, or 32.2%, to $2.7 billion, compared to $4.0 billion for fiscal 2009. In general, pass-through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues for fiscal 2010 decreased $1.1 billion, or 18.6%, to $4.8 billion, compared to $5.9 billion for fiscal 2009. Pass-through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients’ projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass-through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business.  

As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 85.7% for fiscal 2010, compared to 86.4% for fiscal 2009. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and/or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass-through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The decrease in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2010 as compared to last year was due primarily to lower levels of pass-through costs.  

SG&A expenses for fiscal 2010 decreased by $10.5 million, or 1.1%, to $929.8 million, compared to $940.3 million for fiscal 2009. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in head-count and the amount of spending required to support our technical professional services activities, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, it is not unusual to see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses during fiscal 2010 was due primarily to management’s efforts to reduce SG&A expenses.  

Operating profit for fiscal 2010 decreased by $133.2 million, or 21.5%, to $487.4 million, compared to $620.6 million for fiscal 2009. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 4.9% for fiscal 2010, compared to 5.4% in fiscal 2009. This decrease in operating profit is due primarily to the overall decline in business volume.  

Interest income for fiscal 2010 decreased by $9.5 million, to $3.6 million, compared to $13.1 million for fiscal 2009. Even though the Company maintained significant cash balances during fiscal 2010, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Interest expense for fiscal 2010 was nearly zero compared to $2.9 million for fiscal 2009. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to the reversal of $2.9 million of interest expense that was accrued over the past several years in connection with an income tax matter that was resolved successfully in fiscal 2010.  

The Company’s consolidated effective income tax rate was 36.0% for fiscal 2010—unchanged from fiscal 2009. In the normal course of our business, we may engage in numerous transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome (including the period in which the transaction will ultimately be included in income or deducted as an expense) is uncertain. Additionally, we file income, franchise, gross receipts and similar tax returns in many jurisdictions. Our tax returns are subject to audit and investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, most states in the United States, and by various government agencies representing many jurisdictions outside the United States. We continually monitor the appropriateness of the rate, and we adjust our income tax expense in the period it is probable that actual results will change.  

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008  

The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Friday closest to September 30 (determined on the basis of the number of workdays) and, accordingly, an additional week of activity is added every five to six years, such as in fiscal 2009.  

We recorded net earnings of $399.9 million, or $3.21 per diluted share, for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009, compared to net earnings of $420.7 million, or $3.38 per diluted share, for fiscal 2008.  

Although consolidated revenues for fiscal 2009 increased by $215.2 million, or 1.9%, from fiscal 2008, most of the increase occurred during the first two quarters of fiscal 2009 as the Company completed a number of projects for clients operating in several of the industries and markets we serve. During the second half of fiscal 2009, as the global economy continued to slow, revenues dropped-off significantly, while project delays increased and awards of new contracts also slowed.  

Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for clients operating in the Refining—Downstream and the Oil & Gas—Upstream industries increased a total of $117.4 million, or 2.5%, from fiscal 2008. All of the increase related to projects for clients operating in the energy & refinery sector and reflects the ramping-up of work performed at a large, U.S. oil refinery. This increase was off-set in part by the winding-down of work on certain projects in the upstream sector of the petroleum market that were awarded to the Company in prior years when oil prices were at historically high levels.  

Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for National Government Program clients increased by $364.5 million, or 20.4%, from fiscal 2008. Most of the increase continues to relate to revenues from the U.S. federal government on projects for research and development test engineering, scientific, and other technical services. Although the Company performed services during fiscal 2009 for projects that were funded in part under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), such revenues were not significant.  

Revenues during fiscal 2009 from projects for clients operating in the Chemicals and Polymers industries, and the Pharmaceuticals and Biotechnology industries as well as the Buildings market all declined as compared to fiscal 2008, as clients reviewed their capital expenditure plans in light of the global recession and delayed the release of new projects.  

Direct costs of contracts for fiscal 2009 increased $388.8 million, or 4.1%, to $9.9 billion, compared to $9.5 billion for fiscal 2008. The level of direct costs of contracts may fluctuate between reporting periods due to a variety of factors including the amount of pass-through cost we incur during a period. On those projects where we are responsible for subcontract labor or third-party materials and equipment, we reflect the amounts of such items in both revenues and costs (and we refer to such costs as “pass-through costs”). On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these  

42  

Table of Contents 

 amounts are not considered pass-through costs and are, therefore, not reflected in either revenues or costs. To the extent that we incur a significant amount of pass-through costs in a period, our direct cost of contracts are likely to increase as well.  

Pass-through costs for fiscal 2009 increased $499.6 million, or 14.2%, to $4.0 billion, compared to $3.5 billion for fiscal 2008. In general, pass-through costs are more significant on projects that have a higher content of field services activities. Field services revenues for fiscal 2009 increased $575.4 million, or 10.7%, to $5.9 billion, compared to $5.4 billion for fiscal 2008. Pass-through costs are generally incurred at a specific point in the lifecycle of a project and are highly dependent on the needs of our individual clients and the nature of the clients’ projects. However, because we have hundreds of projects which start at various times within a fiscal year, the effect of pass-through costs on the level of direct costs of contracts can vary between fiscal years without there being a fundamental or significant change to the underlying business.  

As a percentage of revenues, direct costs of contracts were 86.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 84.6% for fiscal 2008. The relationship between direct costs of contracts and revenues will fluctuate between reporting periods depending on a variety of factors including the mix of business during the reporting periods being compared as well as the level of margins earned from the various types of services provided. Generally speaking, the more procurement we do on behalf of our clients (i.e., where we purchase equipment and materials for use on projects, and/or procure subcontracts in connection with projects) and the more field services revenues we have relative to technical, professional services revenues, the higher the ratio will be of direct costs of contracts to revenues. Because revenues from pass-through costs typically have lower margin rates associated with them, it is not unusual for us to experience an increase or decrease in such revenues without experiencing a corresponding increase or decrease in our gross margins and operating profit. The increase in the ratio of direct costs of contracts to revenues in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008 was due primarily to higher levels of pass-through costs combined with a slight decrease in the margin rates earned on our technical professional services revenues.  

SG&A expenses for fiscal 2009 decreased by $151.1 million, or 13.8%, to $940.3 million, compared to $1.1 billion for fiscal 2008. Our SG&A expenses typically fluctuate as a result of changes in head count and the spending required to support our technical professional services revenues, which normally require additional overhead costs. Therefore, when our technical professional services revenues increase or decrease, we typically see a corresponding change in SG&A expenses. The decrease in SG&A expenses was due primarily to the decline in our project services revenues combined with management’s efforts to reduce SG&A expenses.  

Operating profit for fiscal 2009 decreased by $22.5 million, or 3.5%, to $620.6 million, compared to $643.1 million for fiscal 2008. As a percentage of revenues, operating profit was 5.4% for fiscal 2009, compared to 5.7% in fiscal 2008. This decrease in operating profit is due primarily to the overall decline in business volume, and in particular, the decrease in project services revenues.  

Interest income for fiscal 2009 decreased by $2.3 million, or 14.9%, to $13.1 million, compared to $15.4 million for fiscal 2008. Even though the Company maintained higher average cash balances during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008, the rate of interest earned on our deposits and investments was significantly lower in 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008.  

Interest expense for fiscal 2009 decreased by $1.5 million, or 33.9%, to $2.9 million, compared to $4.4 million for fiscal 2008. The decrease in interest expense was due primarily to lower average borrowings outstanding during fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008.  

Miscellaneous expense, net for fiscal 2009 totaled $6.7 million as compared to miscellaneous income, net of $3.9 million for fiscal 2008. Included in miscellaneous income, net in fiscal 2008 was a $10.6 million gain from the sale of the Company’s interest in a business that provides specialized operations and maintenance services for highways and associated facilities. By excluding the gain from fiscal 2008, miscellaneous expense, net for fiscal 2008 would have been $6.7 million.  

43  

Table of Contents 

We recorded income tax expense of $224.9 million during fiscal 2009, compared to $236.7 million during fiscal 2008. Our overall effective tax rate in fiscal 2009 was 36%—the same as fiscal 2008.  

Contractual Obligations  

The following table sets forth certain information about our contractual obligations as of October 1, 2010 (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Assumes the Company will make end of lease term residual value guarantee payments of $35.3 million in 2011 and $38.8 million in 2015 with respect to the lease of two office buildings in Houston, Texas.  

 (b) Assumes that future contributions will be consistent with amounts projected to be contributed in fiscal 2011, allowing for certain growth based on rates of inflation and salary increases, but limited to the amount recorded as of October 1, 2010. Actual contributions will depend on a variety of factors, including amounts required by local laws and regulations, and other funding requirements.  

 (c) Assumes that future payments will be consistent with amounts paid in fiscal 2010, allowing for certain growth. Due to the nonqualified nature of the plans, and the fact that benefits are based in part on years of service, the payments included in the schedule were limited to the amount recorded as of October 1, 2010.  

 (d) Represents those liabilities estimated to be under firm contractual commitments as of October 1, 2010.  

Backlog  

Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods.  

The following table summarizes our backlog for each of the last three fiscal years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Because the entire value of a contract is added to backlog as soon as the contract is awarded to us (rather than adding the contracts to backlog gradually over time), and because many of our contracts require us to provide services that span over a number of fiscal quarters (and sometimes over fiscal years), we evaluate our backlog on a year-over-year basis, rather than on a sequential, quarter-over-quarter basis. Our backlog at October 1, 2010 decreased by $2.0 billion, or 13.3%, to $13.2 billion from $15.2 billion at October 2, 2009.  

44  

Table of Contents 

In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation or termination at the discretion of the client. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, adjustments were made to a variety of extended term, task order, indefinite quantity, and other similar contracts where it became clear that the full capacity of the previously-recorded backlog amount would not be realized. Such negative adjustments totaled approximately $390.0 million and affected technical professional services. During fiscal 2009, approximately $1.9 billion was removed from backlog as a result of project cancellations. Approximately $2.4 billion was removed from backlog during fiscal 2008 relating to cancelled projects. In a situation where a client terminates a contract, we would ordinarily be entitled to receive payment for work performed up to the date of termination and, in certain instances, we may be entitled to allowable termination and cancellation costs. There were no significant project cancellations in fiscal 2010.  

While management uses all information available to it to determine backlog, our backlog at any given time is subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as increases or decreases in costs relating to the contracts included therein. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenues.  

Backlog relating to work to be performed either directly or indirectly for the U.S. federal government and its agencies totaled approximately $4.3 billion (or 32.6% of total backlog), $4.2 billion (or 27.7% of total backlog), and $3.4 billion (or 20.4% of total backlog) at October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009, and September 26, 2008, respectively. Most of our federal contracts require that services be provided beyond one year. In general, these contracts must be funded annually (i.e., the amounts to be spent under the contract must be appropriated by the U.S. Congress to the procuring agency, and then the agency must allot these sums to the specific contracts).  

Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A—Risk Factors, above, we estimate that approximately $6.9 billion, or 52.3%, of total backlog at October 1, 2010 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year.  

Effects of Inflation  

The effects of inflation on our business is discussed in detail in Item 1A—Risk Factors, and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

The three more significant and/or nonrecurring uses of cash during fiscal 2010 was approximately $259.5 million for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired (approximately $236.2 million more than what was spent for acquisitions during fiscal 2009); approximately $108.5 million for purchases of investments (approximately $74.5 million more than what was spent for investments during fiscal 2009); and approximately $64.5 million representing the net cash outflow relating to the SIVOM Judgment. In spite of the $432.5 million of cash used for these transactions and events, our cash and cash equivalents decreased by only $94.8 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $429.2 million during fiscal 2009, and a decrease of $8.9 million during fiscal 2008. During fiscal 2010, we generated net cash inflows of $197.0 million from operating activities and $95.6 million from financing activities. These inflows were offset in part by outflows from investing activities and the effect of exchange rate changes of $374.4 million and $13.0 million, respectively.  

Our operations provided net cash of $197.0 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash inflows of $533.5 million and $313.4 million during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $336.5 million decrease in cash provided by operations in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to the following factors:  

   •    a $188.3 million decrease relating to changes in our working capital accounts (discussed below); and,  

   •    a $153.9 million decrease in net earnings.  

With respect to the $188.3 million decrease in cash flows relating to changes in our working capital accounts, there was no unusual activity occurring in these accounts during fiscal 2010. Because such a high  

45  

Table of Contents 

 percentage of our revenues are earned on cost-plus type contracts (86% and 85% of total revenues for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively), and due to the significance of revenues relating to pass-through costs, most of the costs we incur are included in invoices we send to clients. Although we continually monitor our accounts receivable, we manage the operating cash flows of the Company by managing the working capital accounts in total, rather than by the individual elements. The primary elements of the Company’s working capital accounts are accounts receivable, accounts payable, and billings in excess of cost. Accounts payable consists of obligations to third parties relating primarily to costs incurred for projects which are generally billable to clients. Receivable consist of amounts owed to us by our clients—a substantial portion of which is for project-related costs. Billings in excess of costs consist of billings to and payments from our clients for costs yet to be incurred.  

This relationship between revenues and costs, and between receivables and payables is unique for our industry, and facilitates reviews of cash flow information at the total working capital level. The $188.3 million decrease in cash flows relating to changes in our working capital accounts was due primarily to the timing of cash receipts and payments within our working capital accounts, and reflects the general decline of the overall business in fiscal 2010 as compared to the prior year.  

We used $374.4 million of cash and cash equivalents for investing activities during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash outflows of $94.9 million and $409.9 million during fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. The $279.4 million increase in cash used for investing activities as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to acquisitions of businesses and changes in investments. During fiscal 2010 we acquired Jordan, Jones & Goulding, Inc. and TYBRIN Corporation, and we completed our investment in AWE Management Limited.  

Our financing activities resulted in net cash inflows of $95.6 million during fiscal 2010. This compares to net cash outflows of $39.0 million during fiscal 2009 and net cash inflows of $98.8 million during fiscal 2008. The $134.6 million net increase in cash flows from financing activities during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due primarily to an $87.9 million change in the Company’s borrowing activities along with a $54.5 million change in other deferred liabilities (relating primarily to the Company’s defined benefit pension plans).  

We believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations and service our debt for the next twelve months. We had $938.8 million in cash and cash equivalents at October 1, 2010, compared to $1.0 billion at October 2, 2009. Our consolidated working capital position at October 1, 2010 was $1.53 billion, compared to $1.52 billion at October 2, 2009, which management believes is adequate. We have a long-term, unsecured, revolving credit facility providing up to $290.0 million of debt capacity, under which approximately $32.9 million was utilized at October 1, 2010 in the form of letters of credit only. We also have a short-term credit facility in-place at October 1, 2010 providing $79.4 million of debt capacity, which was entirely utilized as of that date. We believe that the capacity, terms and conditions of our committed credit facilities, combined with other uncommitted facilities we have in place, are adequate for our working capital and general business requirements. Depending on the size of any business acquisition we complete in the future and the timing of when any such transaction may close, our current cash balances and existing credit facilities may not be sufficient to provide the amount of liquidity we may need. We believe, however, that we will be able to access the capital markets and fund future acquisitions if and when the need arises.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We are party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk, in the form of guarantees not reflected in our balance sheet that arise in the normal course of business. However, such off-balance sheet arrangements are not reasonably likely to have an effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or resources that is material to investors. See Note 10—Commitments and Contingencies, and Derivative Financial Instruments of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

46  

Table of Contents 

New Accounting Pronouncements  

In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2009-13—Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends certain guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 605-25 (Revenue Recognition—Multiple Element Arrangements). ASU 2009-13 requires entities to allocate revenue in an arrangement using estimated selling prices of the delivered goods and services based on a selling price hierarchy. The amendments eliminate the residual method of revenue allocation and require revenue to be allocated using the relative selling price method. ASU 2009-13 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010 and should be applied on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2009-13, if any, on its consolidated financial statements.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167—Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R) (as codified in ASC 810-10. ASC 810-10 requires the Company to perform an analysis to determine whether its variable interests give the Company a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity. Such analysis requires the Company to assess whether it has the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity and if it has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. ASC 810-10 eliminates the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and significantly enhances disclosures. SFAS 167 is effective for the Company October 1, 2010. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this statement, if any, on its consolidated financial statements.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141R—Business Combinations (as codified in ASC 805). ASC 805 significantly changes the accounting and reporting for business combinations. Among other changes, ASC 805 requires acquisition related costs to be recognized separately from the acquisition; in a business combination achieved in stages, an acquiree to recognize the identifiable assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the full amounts of their fair values as of the acquisition date; an acquirer to recognize assets or liabilities from contingencies as of the acquisition date. The requirement to measure the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at fair value will result in recognizing the goodwill attributable to the noncontrolling interest in addition to that attributable to the acquirer. ASC 805 was effective for the Company October 3, 2009.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160—Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—an amendment of ARB No. 51 (as codified in ASC 810-10-65). ASC 810-10-65 significantly changes the accounting and reporting of noncontrolling (formerly known as minority) interests in consolidated financial statements. Among other changes, ASC 810-10-65 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements; establishes that net income attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest will be reported in the consolidated statement of earnings; and eliminates the requirement of purchase accounting for a parent’s acquisition of a noncontrolling ownership interest. ASC 810-10-65 was effective for the Company October 3, 2009.  

Depending on the size and nature of an acquisition, the adoption of ASC 810-10 and ASC 805 could have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK