Part I  

Item 1. Business.  

Overview.  

Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. Morgan Stanley conducts its business from its headquarters in and around New York City, its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. At November 30, 2008, Morgan Stanley had 46,964 employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

On September 21, 2008, Morgan Stanley obtained approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Fed”) to become a bank holding company upon the conversion of its wholly owned indirect subsidiary, Morgan Stanley Bank (Utah), from a Utah industrial bank to a national bank. On September 23, 2008, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) authorized Morgan Stanley Bank (Utah) to commence business as a national bank, operating as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. Concurrent with this conversion, Morgan Stanley became a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). For more information about Morgan Stanley’s transition into a financial holding company, see “Supervision and Regulation—Financial Holding Company” herein.  

Financial information concerning Morgan Stanley, its business segments and geographic regions for each of the fiscal years ended November 30, 2008, November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006 is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.  

Available Information.  

Morgan Stanley files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including Morgan Stanley) file electronically with the SEC. Morgan Stanley’s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.  

Morgan Stanley’s internet site is www.morganstanley.com. You can access Morgan Stanley’s Investor Relations webpage at www.morganstanley.com/about/ir. Morgan Stanley makes available free of charge, on or through our Investor Relations webpage, its proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Morgan Stanley also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC’s internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of Morgan Stanley’s equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.  

Morgan Stanley has a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access information about Morgan Stanley’s corporate governance at www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance. Morgan Stanley posts the following on its Corporate Governance webpage:  

   •    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation;  

   •    Amended and Restated Bylaws;  

1  

Table of Contents 

   •    Charters for our Audit Committee; Internal Audit Subcommittee; Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee; and Nominating and Governance Committee;  

   •    Corporate Governance Policies;  

   •    Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors;  

   •    Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders;  

   •    Policy Regarding Corporate Political Contributions;  

   •    Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan;  

   •    Code of Ethics and Business Conduct;  

   •    Code of Conduct; and  

   •    Integrity Hotline.  

Morgan Stanley’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, its Chief Financial Officer and its Controller and Principal Accounting Officer. Morgan Stanley will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC (“NYSE”) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on Morgan Stanley’s internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

Recent Business Developments.  

Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Joint Venture.  

On January 13, 2009, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup Inc. (“Citi”) announced they had reached a definitive agreement to combine Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group and Citi’s Smith Barney in the U.S., Quilter in the U.K., and Smith Barney Australia into a new joint venture to be called Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. Morgan Stanley will own 51%, and Citi will own 49% of the joint venture, after the contribution of the respective businesses to the joint venture and Morgan Stanley’s payment of $2.7 billion to Citi. Morgan Stanley will appoint four directors to the joint venture’s board and Citi will appoint two directors. After year three, Morgan Stanley and Citi will have various purchase and sales rights for the joint venture. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2009 and is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.  

Business Segments.  

Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. A summary of the activities of each of the business segments follows.  

Institutional Securities includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management analytics; and investment activities.  

Global Wealth Management Group provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.  

Asset Management provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which includes hedge funds and funds of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party distribution channels. Asset Management also engages in investment activities.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Institutional Securities.  

Morgan Stanley provides financial advisory and capital-raising services to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients globally, primarily through wholly owned subsidiaries that include Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (“MS&Co.”), Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc, Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. and Morgan Stanley Asia Limited. These and other subsidiaries also conduct sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and agent, and provide related financing services on behalf of institutional investors.  

Investment Banking and Corporate Lending Activities.  

Financial Advisory Services. Morgan Stanley provides corporate and other institutional clients globally with advisory services on key strategic matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense strategies, joint ventures, privatizations, recapitalizations, spin-offs, corporate restructurings, shareholder relations, tender offers, exchange offers and leveraged buyouts. Morgan Stanley also provides advice concerning rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk management strategies and financial planning. In addition, Morgan Stanley furnishes advice and services regarding project financings and provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale, leasing and financing of real estate.  

Capital Raising. Morgan Stanley manages and participates in public offerings and private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other equity-related securities, including convertible securities and American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”). Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of fixed income securities, including investment grade debt, non-investment grade instruments, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, tax-exempt securities and commercial paper and other short-term securities.  

Corporate Lending. Morgan Stanley provides loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing, to selected corporate clients through subsidiaries (including Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.). These loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated and/or secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower and may be syndicated, hedged or traded by Morgan Stanley*. The borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade.  

Sales and Trading Activities.  

Morgan Stanley conducts sales, trading, financing and market-making activities on securities and futures exchanges and in over-the-counter (“OTC”) markets around the world. Morgan Stanley’s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities include Equity Trading; Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies; Commodities; and Clients and Services.  

Equity Trading. Morgan Stanley acts as principal (including as a market maker) and agent in executing transactions globally in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, global depositary receipts and exchange-traded funds.  

Morgan Stanley’s equity derivatives sales, trading and market-making activities cover equity-related products globally, including equity swaps, options, warrants and futures overlying individual securities, indices and baskets of securities and other equity-related products. Morgan Stanley also issues and makes a principal market in equity-linked products to institutional and individual investors, including principal-protected securities.  

Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies. Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in fixed income securities and related products globally, including, among other products, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt, distressed debt, bank loans, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, convertible bonds, collateralized debt obligations, credit, currency and other fixed income linked notes, and securities issued by structured investment vehicles, mortgage-related  

 * Revenues and expenses associated with the trading of syndicated loans are included in “Sales and Trading Activities.”  

3  

Table of Contents 

 and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products, municipal securities, preferred stock and commercial paper, money market and other short-term securities. Morgan Stanley is a primary dealer of U.S. Federal Government securities and a member of the selling groups that distribute various U.S. agency and other debt securities. Morgan Stanley is also a primary dealer or market maker of government securities in numerous European, Asian and emerging market countries.  

Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions globally in listed futures and OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, credit indexes, asset-backed security indexes, property indexes, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products.  

Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in major foreign currencies, such as the Japanese yen, euro, British pound, Swiss franc and Canadian dollar, as well as in emerging markets currencies. Morgan Stanley trades these currencies on a principal basis in the spot, forward, option and futures markets.  

Through the use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, Morgan Stanley acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. Morgan Stanley also provides financing to customers for commercial and residential real estate loan products and other securitizable asset classes. In addition, Morgan Stanley engages in principal securities lending with clients, institutional lenders and other broker-dealers.  

Morgan Stanley advises on investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in their debt repurchases and tax planning. Morgan Stanley structures debt securities and derivatives with risk/return factors designed to suit client objectives, including using repackaged asset and other structured vehicles through which clients can restructure asset portfolios to provide liquidity or reconfigure risk profiles.  

Commodities. Morgan Stanley trades as principal and maintains long and short proprietary trading positions in the spot, forward and futures markets in several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. Morgan Stanley is a market-maker in exchange-traded options and futures and OTC options and swaps on commodities, and offers counterparties hedging programs relating to production, consumption, reserve/inventory management and structured transactions, including energy-contract securitizations. Morgan Stanley is an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and owns six electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe.  

Morgan Stanley owns TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business, and owns an interest in the Heidmar Group of companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services.  

Clients and Services. Morgan Stanley provides financing services, including prime brokerage, which offers, among other services, consolidated clearance, settlement, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services to clients trading multiple asset classes. In addition, Morgan Stanley’s institutional distribution and sales activities are overseen and coordinated through Clients and Services.  

Other Activities.  

Benchmark Indices and Risk Management Analytics. As of November 30, 2008, Morgan Stanley’s subsidiary, MSCI Inc. (“MSCI®”), calculates and distributes over 100,000 international and U.S. equity benchmark indices (including the MSCI World and EAFE® Indices) covering 70 countries, and has a historical database spanning over 35 years that includes fundamental and valuation data on thousands of equity securities in developed and emerging market countries. MSCI’s subsidiary, Barra, Inc., is a leading provider of risk analytic   

4  

Table of Contents 

 tools and services to investors to help them analyze, measure and manage portfolio and firm-wide investment risk. Morgan Stanley sold a minority interest in MSCI in an initial public offering on November 15, 2007 and sold additional MSCI shares in two secondary offerings in fiscal 2008. As of November 30, 2008, Morgan Stanley owned approximately 28 million shares of MSCI’s class B common stock, representing approximately 66% of the combined voting power of all classes of MSCI’s voting stock.  

Investments. Morgan Stanley from time to time makes investments that represent business facilitation or principal investing activities. Business facilitation investments are strategic investments undertaken by Morgan Stanley to facilitate core business activities. Principal investing activities are investments and capital commitments provided to public and private companies, funds and other entities generally for proprietary purposes to maximize total returns to Morgan Stanley. These principal investment activities are conducted within the investment banking and sales and trading areas in Institutional Securities and Asset Management.  

Morgan Stanley sponsors and manages investment vehicles and separate accounts for clients seeking exposure to private equity, real estate-related and other alternative investments. Morgan Stanley may also invest in and provide capital to such investment vehicles. See also “Asset Management.”  

Operations and Information Technology.  

Morgan Stanley’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform that supports Institutional Securities sales and trading activity, including post-execution trade processing and related internal controls over activity from trade entry through settlement and custody, such as asset servicing. This is done for proprietary and customer transactions in listed and OTC transactions in commodities, equity and fixed income securities, including both primary and secondary trading, as well as listed, OTC and structured derivatives in markets around the world. This activity is undertaken through Morgan Stanley’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Global Wealth Management Group.  

Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group provides comprehensive financial services to clients through a network of approximately 8,400 global representatives in approximately 500 locations globally, including over 450 U.S. locations at fiscal year end. As of November 30, 2008, Morgan Stanley had $546 billion in client assets.  

Clients.  

Global Wealth Management Group professionals serve individual investors and small-to-medium size businesses and institutions with an emphasis on ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. In the U.S., products and services are delivered through three principal channels. Specialized private wealth management investment representative teams located in dedicated offices provide sophisticated investment solutions and services for ultra high net worth individuals, families and foundations. Financial advisors located in branches across the U.S. provide solutions designed to accommodate individual investment objectives, risk tolerance and liquidity needs for ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. Call centers are available to meet the needs of emerging affluent clients. Outside the U.S., Morgan Stanley offers financial services to clients in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Latin America.  

Products and Services.  

Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group provides clients with a comprehensive array of financial solutions, including Morgan Stanley’s products and services, and products and services from third party providers, such as insurance companies and mutual fund families. Morgan Stanley offers brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives, including equities, options, futures, foreign currencies, precious metals, fixed income securities, mutual funds, structured products, alternative investments, unit investment trusts, managed futures, separately managed accounts and mutual fund asset   

5  

Table of Contents 

 allocation programs. Morgan Stanley also offers financial and wealth planning services, including education savings programs, as well as annuity and other insurance products.  

In addition, Morgan Stanley offers several cash management services, including cash sweeps, debit cards, electronic bill payments and check writing, as well as lending products, including securities based lending and a mortgage referral program, which provides residential mortgages originated through Morgan Stanley’s affiliated entities. Morgan Stanley’s BusinesScapeSM program offers cash management and commercial credit solutions to qualified small and medium businesses in the U.S. Morgan Stanley provides individual and corporate retirement solutions, including IRAs and 401(k) plans and U.S. stock plan services to corporate executives and businesses. Morgan Stanley also offers trust and fiduciary services to individual and corporate clients.  

Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group offers its clients a variety of ways to establish a relationship and conduct business, including brokerage accounts with transaction-based pricing and investment advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing. The Active Assets Account® offers clients brokerage and cash management services in one account. Clients can also choose a fee-based, separately managed account managed by affiliated or unaffiliated professional asset managers.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

Morgan Stanley’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform that supports the activities of Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group from trade capture through clearance, settlement and custody, including asset servicing as well as bank deposit and loan processing through Morgan Stanley’s affiliated banks. These activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley’s own facilities, through memberships in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Asset Management.  

Morgan Stanley Investment Management is one of the largest global asset management organizations of any full-service financial services firm and offers individual and institutional clients a diverse array of equity, fixed income and alternative investments and merchant banking strategies. Morgan Stanley Investment Management had $399 billion of assets under management or supervision as of November 30, 2008. Morgan Stanley’s asset management activities are principally conducted under the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen brands. Portfolio managers located in the U.S., Europe, Japan, Singapore and India manage investment products ranging from money market funds to equity, taxable and tax-exempt fixed income funds and alternative investment and merchant banking products in developed and emerging markets. Morgan Stanley offers clients various investment styles, such as value, growth, core, fixed income and asset allocation; global investments; active and passive management; and diversified and concentrated portfolios.  

Morgan Stanley offers a range of alternative investment and merchant banking products for institutional investors and high net worth individuals. Morgan Stanley’s alternative investments platform includes hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and portable alpha overlays, including FrontPoint Partners LLC, a leading provider of absolute return strategies with approximately $8.4 billion in assets under management, and minority stakes in Lansdowne Partners and Avenue Capital Group. Morgan Stanley’s Merchant Banking Division, formed in 2007, includes Morgan Stanley’s real estate investing business, private equity funds and infrastructure investing group. Morgan Stanley typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, its alternative investment and merchant banking funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds with subscribing investors contributing the majority.  

Institutional Investors.  

Morgan Stanley provides asset management products and services to institutional investors worldwide, including pension plans, corporations, private funds, non-profit organizations, foundations, endowments, governmental agencies, insurance companies and banks. Products and services are available to institutional investors primarily through separate accounts, U.S. mutual funds and other pooled vehicles. Morgan Stanley Investment   

6  

Table of Contents 

 Management also sub-advises funds for various unaffiliated financial institutions and intermediaries. A global sales force and a team dedicated to covering the investment consultant industry serve institutional investors.  

Individual Investors.  

Morgan Stanley offers open-end and alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and financial planners. Closed-end funds managed by Morgan Stanley or Van Kampen are available to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers. A small number of unaffiliated broker-dealers account for a substantial portion of Van Kampen open-end fund sales. Morgan Stanley also sells Van Kampen funds through numerous retirement plan platforms. Internationally, Morgan Stanley distributes traditional investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through non-proprietary distributors, and alternative investment products are distributed through affiliated broker-dealers.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

Morgan Stanley’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide or oversee the process and technology platform required to support its asset management business. Support activities include transfer agency, mutual fund accounting and administration, transaction processing and certain fiduciary services, on behalf of institutional, retail and intermediary clients. These activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Research.  

In December 2008, Morgan Stanley announced that its global research department (“Research”), formerly part of its Institutional Securities business segment, would be coordinated globally across all of Morgan Stanley’s businesses. Research consists of economists, strategists and industry analysts who engage in equity and fixed income research activities and produce reports and studies on the U.S. and global economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses, individual companies and industry developments. Research examines worldwide trends covering numerous industries and individual companies, the majority of which are located outside of the U.S.; provides analysis and forecasts relating to economic and monetary developments that affect matters such as interest rates, foreign currencies, securities, derivatives and economic trends; and provides analytical support and publishes reports on asset-backed securities and the markets in which such securities are traded and data are disseminated to investors through third party distributors, proprietary internet sites such as Client Link and Morgan Stanley’s sales forces.  

Competition.  

All aspects of Morgan Stanley’s businesses are highly competitive and Morgan Stanley expects them to remain so. Morgan Stanley competes in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent in all aspects of its business segments. Morgan Stanley’s competitive position depends on its reputation and the quality of its products, services and advice. Morgan Stanley’s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. Morgan Stanley competes with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. In fiscal 2008, this trend accelerated considerably, as several major U.S. financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge, received substantial government assistance or were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. Federal Government. These developments could result in Morgan Stanley’s remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.  

Morgan Stanley’s competitive position depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. Morgan Stanley competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers, and with others on a regional or product basis.  

Morgan Stanley’s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally dependent on Morgan Stanley’s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate clients may request that Morgan Stanley provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities.  

It is possible that competition may become even more intense as Morgan Stanley continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. Many of these firms have greater capital than Morgan Stanley and have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. The complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for Morgan Stanley to remain competitive.  

Morgan Stanley has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. It is possible that Morgan Stanley will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.  

Asset Management.  

Competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including Morgan Stanley’s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment products relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels, and the types and quality of products offered. Morgan Stanley’s alternative investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and hedge funds, compete with similar products offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers.  

Supervision and Regulation.  

Most aspects of Morgan Stanley’s business are subject to stringent regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by non-U.S. government agencies or regulatory bodies and securities exchanges. Aspects of Morgan Stanley’s public disclosure, corporate governance principles, internal control environment and the roles of auditors and counsel are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations and rules of the SEC and the NYSE.  

In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry are expected to be introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and around the world.  

The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the U.S., are possible in the months or years ahead. Any such action could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a global financial institution, to the extent that different regulatory regimes impose inconsistent or iterative requirements on the conduct of its business, Morgan Stanley faces complexity and additional costs in its compliance efforts.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Regulatory Developments.  

The year 2008 saw an unprecedented number of government initiatives both in the U.S. and abroad designed to respond to the stresses experienced in global financial markets.  

U.S. regulatory agencies including primarily the U.S. Department of Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”), the Fed, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York have taken a number of steps to enhance the liquidity support available to financial institutions such as Morgan Stanley and certain of its subsidiaries. These steps have included (i) expanding the types and quality of assets that can be used as collateral for borrowings by primary dealers from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York under the primary dealer credit facility, (ii) extending the term for which the Fed will lend the U.S. Treasury securities to primary dealers under its term securities lending facility, (iii) adopting temporary exceptions to the Federal Reserve Act limitations on transactions between insured depository institutions, such as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., and their affiliates to permit them to provide liquidity to their affiliates for assets typically funded in the tri-party repo market, and (iv) authorizing the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to extend credit to the U.S.- and London-based broker-dealer subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley and those of two other institutions against all types of collateral that may be pledged at the primary dealer credit facility. Furthermore, the FDIC agreed to temporarily guarantee certain senior unsecured debt of all FDIC-insured institutions, their U.S. holding companies, and of certain other affiliates accepted into the program, and to temporarily guarantee deposits in certain transaction accounts of FDIC-insured institutions or branches. Morgan Stanley and its FDIC-insured depository institutions are participating in both FDIC programs and will incur fees assessed in connection with such programs (see also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Funding Management Policies—Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program” in Part II, Item 7 herein). On October 27, 2008, the Fed’s Commercial Paper Funding Facility, a facility designed to provide a liquidity backstop to U.S. issuers of commercial paper, became operational.  

On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (initially introduced as the Troubled Asset Relief Program or “TARP”) was enacted. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced its intention to inject capital into nine large U.S. financial institutions, including Morgan Stanley, under the TARP Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”), and since has injected capital into many other financial institutions. Morgan Stanley was part of the initial group of financial institutions participating in the CPP, and on October 26, 2008 entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement–Standard Terms with the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, Morgan Stanley sold to the U.S. Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of $10 billion, preferred stock and warrants. Under the terms of the CPP, Morgan Stanley is prohibited from increasing dividends on its common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including its common stock, without the U.S. Treasury’s consent. Furthermore, as long as the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Morgan Stanley’s common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Equity Capital Management Policies” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

On October 14, 2008, the SEC published final rules, effective as of October 17, 2008, under the Exchange Act adopting, among other changes, a temporary rule, set to expire on July 31, 2009, which contains a firm delivery requirement for long and short sales, and the “naked” short selling anti-fraud rule.  

In Europe, governments and regulatory agencies have also implemented several initiatives to respond to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets, including capital injections to certain financial institutions and a range of economic and fiscal stimuli. Most regulators in the European Union introduced temporary or permanent rules to further regulate short selling and enhance disclosure of short sales. In the United Kingdom, as well as pursuing an increased focus on the capital and liquidity strength of regulated firms, the Financial Services   

9  

Table of Contents 

 Authority wrote to chief executive officers of financial services firms expressing its intention to focus on management structures and the culture of supervisory responsibility within firms, and setting out its views on best practice in the area of position valuation and risk control following a number of mis-marking incidents across the industry.  

Financial Holding Company.  

On September 21, 2008, Morgan Stanley obtained approval from the Fed to become a bank holding company upon the conversion of its wholly owned indirect subsidiary, Morgan Stanley Bank, from a Utah industrial bank to a national bank. On September 23, 2008, the OCC authorized Morgan Stanley Bank to commence business as a national bank, operating as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. Concurrently with this conversion, Morgan Stanley became a financial holding company under the BHC Act.  

Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. is an FDIC-insured national bank and, as such, is subject to the supervision and regulation by the OCC and, in certain matters, by the Fed and FDIC. The activities of Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., as a consumer lender, are also subject to regulation under various U.S. federal laws, including the Truth–in–Lending, Equal Credit Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt Collection Practice and Electronic Funds Transfer acts, as well as various state laws. These statutes impose requirements on the making, enforcement and collection of consumer loans and on the types of disclosures that need to be made in connection with such loans.  

Other Banking Institutions. Morgan Stanley Trust is a wholly owned subsidiary that conducts certain transfer agency, sub-accounting and other activities. It is an FDIC-insured federal savings bank whose activities are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Morgan Stanley Trust is also a registered transfer agent subject to regulation and examination by the SEC.  

Morgan Stanley Trust National Association, a wholly owned subsidiary, is a non-depository national bank whose activities are limited to fiduciary activities, primarily personal trust services. It is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the OCC. Morgan Stanley Trust National Association is not FDIC-insured and is not considered a “bank” for purposes of the BHC Act.  

Scope of Permitted Activities. As a financial holding company, Morgan Stanley is able to engage in any activity that is financial in nature, incidental to a financial activity or complementary to a financial activity. Unless otherwise required by the Fed, Morgan Stanley is permitted to commence any new financial activity, or acquire a company engaged in any financial activity, as long as it provides after–the–fact notice of such new activity or investment to the Fed. However, Morgan Stanley must obtain the prior approval of the Fed before acquiring more than five percent of any class of voting stock of a U.S. depository institution or bank holding company or commencing any activity that is complementary to a financial activity.  

Morgan Stanley believes that most of the activities it conducted before becoming a financial holding company remain permissible. In addition, the BHC Act gives Morgan Stanley two years to conform its existing nonfinancial activities and investments to the requirements of the BHC Act with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of up to five years. The BHC Act also grandfathers any “activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,” provided that Morgan Stanley conducted any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 and provided that certain other conditions that are within Morgan Stanley’s reasonable control are satisfied. In addition, the BHC Act permits the Fed to determine by regulation or order that certain activities are complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a risk to safety and soundness.  

It is possible that certain of Morgan Stanley’s existing activities will not be deemed to be permissible financial activities, or incidental or complementary to such activities or otherwise grandfathered. If so, Morgan Stanley will   

10  

Table of Contents 

 be required to divest them before the end of the grace period discussed above. Morgan Stanley does not believe that any such required divestment will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations.  

Consolidated Supervision. As a financial holding company, Morgan Stanley is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the Fed. This means that Morgan Stanley is, among other things, subject to the Fed’s risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements for bank holding companies. The Fed has the authority to conduct on-site examinations of Morgan Stanley and any of its affiliates, subject to coordinating with any state or federal functional regulator of any particular affiliate.  

In addition to the Fed’s consolidated supervision, certain of Morgan Stanley’s subsidiaries are regulated directly by other regulators based upon the activities of those subsidiaries. Except for Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., which has become subject to the supervision and regulation of the OCC upon becoming a national bank, the functional regulation of Morgan Stanley’s subsidiaries by other state and federal regulators has not changed. Morgan Stanley, by participating in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, has become subject to additional oversight by the FDIC, limited to compliance with the terms of that program (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Funding Management Policies—Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program” in Part II, Item 7 herein). Participation in the program does not change the Fed’s role as Morgan Stanley’s consolidated supervisor.  

In order to maintain Morgan Stanley’s status as a financial holding company, its depository institution subsidiaries must remain well capitalized and well managed. Under regulations implemented by the Fed, if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company no longer meets certain capital or management standards, the Fed may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the financial holding company and place limitations on its ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, as a last resort if the deficiencies persist, the Fed may order a financial holding company to cease the conduct of or to divest those businesses engaged in activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. The regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Fed must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies.  

Capital Standards. Federal banking regulators have adopted risk–based capital and leverage guidelines that require Morgan Stanley’s capital–to–assets ratios to meet certain minimum standards.  

The denominator or asset portion of the risk–based capital ratio is determined by allocating assets and specified off–balance sheet financial instruments into four weighted categories, with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk. Under the guidelines, capital is divided into two tiers: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of Tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1 capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to risk–weighted assets) of at least 10% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6% in order to qualify as well capitalized and for their holding company parent to be able to qualify as a financial holding company.  

The federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total book assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets). The adjusted average total assets are derived using month-end balances for each fiscal quarter. The minimum leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that are considered “strong” under Fed guidelines or which have implemented the Fed’s risk–based capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4%.  

The Fed generally requires Morgan Stanley and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk-based and leverage capital ratios substantially in excess of these minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.  

11  

Table of Contents 

U.S. banking regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II Accord (“Basel II”) into the existing risk–based capital requirements. After a transitional period, core financial institutions, including Morgan Stanley, are required to implement advanced measurement techniques by employing internal estimates of certain key risk drivers to derive capital requirements. Prior to becoming a financial holding company, as part of its status until September 2008 as a consolidated supervised entity subject to the group–wide supervision and examination by the SEC, Morgan Stanley calculated its minimum capital requirements in accordance with Basel II as implemented by the SEC. Morgan Stanley’s significant European regulated entities implemented Basel II Capital Standards on January 1, 2008. For March 31, 2009 and future dates, the Company expects to calculate its capital ratios and risk weighted assets in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for bank holding companies adopted by the Fed. These standards are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I.  

Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit Morgan Stanley’s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements may limit Morgan Stanley’s ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect Morgan Stanley’s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels.  

Dividends. In addition to certain dividend restrictions that apply by law to certain of Morgan Stanley’s subsidiaries, as described below, the OCC, the Fed and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and other depository institution subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. It is Fed policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. It is also Fed policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine the company’s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. Under the terms of the CPP, for so long as any preferred stock issued under the CPP remains outstanding, Morgan Stanley is prohibited from increasing dividends on its common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including its common stock, without the U.S. Treasury’s consent until the third anniversary of the U.S. Treasury’s investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties. Furthermore, as long as the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including Morgan Stanley’s common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Equity Capital Management Policies” in Part II, Item 7 herein).  

Prompt Corrective Action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Supervisory actions by the appropriate federal banking regulator under the prompt corrective action rules generally depend upon an institution’s classification within five capital categories. The regulations apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. or Morgan Stanley Trust, and not to bank holding companies such as Morgan Stanley. However, subject to limitations, the Fed is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based upon the undercapitalized status of the holding company’s subsidiary banking institutions. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking institution, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary’s capital restoration plan and might be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments on that guarantee.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Transactions with Affiliates. Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust are both subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on any extensions of credit to, purchase of assets from, and on certain other transactions with, any affiliates. These restrictions include limits on the total amount of credit exposure that they may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates, as well as collateral requirements, and they require all such transactions to be made on market terms.  

FDIC Regulation. An FDIC–insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of a commonly controlled insured depository institution.  

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power: to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor; to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms notwithstanding any clause that purports to accelerate or terminate the contracts; or to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, subject to certain standards. The above provisions would be applicable to Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust.  

As FDIC-insured depository institutions, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust are exposed to changes in the cost of such insurance. On January 1, 2009, the FDIC increased the Deposit Insurance Fund assessment rates as part of the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund restoration plan and has proposed to make, beginning in the second quarter of 2009, further risk-based changes to its deposit insurance assessment system. In addition, by participating in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust have temporarily become subject to an additional assessment on deposits in excess of $250,000 in certain transaction accounts.  

Anti-Money Laundering. 

Morgan Stanley’s Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. In the U.S., for example, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “PATRIOT Act”) imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, broker-dealers and mutual funds to identify and verify customers that maintain accounts. The PATRIOT Act also mandates that certain types of financial institutions monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. An institution subject to the PATRIOT Act also must designate an AML compliance officer, provide employees with training on money laundering prevention, and undergo an annual, independent audit to assess the effectiveness of its AML program. Outside the U.S., applicable laws and regulations similarly subject designated types of financial institutions to AML program requirements. Morgan Stanley has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with these AML program requirements. Morgan Stanley has also implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control.  

Protection of Client Information. 

Many aspects of Morgan Stanley’s business are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the European Union Data Protection Directive in the EU and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. Morgan Stanley has adopted measures in response to such requirements. Morgan Stanley has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.  

Research. 

Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions and are proposed or under consideration in other jurisdictions. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement   

13  

Table of Contents 

 with U.S. Federal and state regulators (to which Morgan Stanley is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.  

Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.  

Broker-Dealer Regulation. Morgan Stanley’s primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, MS&Co., is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and is a member of various self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”) and securities exchanges, including the NYSE. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and retention and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer’s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators.  

Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Fed’s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under the FINRA rules. In many cases, Morgan Stanley’s broker-dealer subsidiaries’ margin policies are more stringent than these rules.  

As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley, including MS&Co., are subject to the SEC’s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various securities exchanges. Many non-U.S. securities exchanges and regulatory authorities either have imposed or are proposing rules relating to capital requirements applicable to Morgan Stanley’s non-U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. These rules, which specify minimum capital requirements, are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net assets be kept in relatively liquid form. See also “Consolidated Supervision” and “Capital Standards” above. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations’ assets.  

Compliance with the capital requirements may limit Morgan Stanley’s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements restrict Morgan Stanley’s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect Morgan Stanley’s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In addition, such rules may require Morgan Stanley to make substantial capital infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules, either in the form of cash or subordinated loans made in accordance with the requirements of the SEC’s net capital rule.  

MS&Co. is a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”), which provides protection for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the liquidation of a broker-dealer. SIPC protects customers’ securities accounts held by a broker-dealer up to $500,000 for each eligible customer, subject to a limitation of $100,000 for claims for cash balances. To supplement this SIPC coverage, MS&Co. has purchased additional protection for the benefit of its customers from Lloyd’s of London, in addition to its existing supplemental coverage from Customer Asset Protection Company (“CAPCO”). The CAPCO coverage will expire on February 16, 2009, after which Lloyd’s of London will be the sole excess SIPC coverage provider.  

Regulation of Certain Commodities Activities. The commodities activities in the Institutional Securities business segment are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Terminal facilities and other assets relating to Morgan Stanley’s commodities activities are also subject to environmental laws both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal.  

Additional Regulation of U.S. Entities. As a registered futures commission merchant, MS&Co. is subject to the net capital requirements of, and its activities are regulated by, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and various commodity exchanges. Certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley are registered with the CFTC as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators. Morgan Stanley’s futures and options-on-futures businesses are also regulated by the National Futures Association (the “NFA”), a registered futures association, of which MS&Co. and certain of its affiliates are members. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships.  

Non-U.S. Regulation. Morgan Stanley’s businesses are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which Morgan Stanley maintains an office. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the Financial Services Authority and several U.K. securities and futures exchanges, including the London Stock Exchange and Euronext.liffe regulate Morgan Stanley’s activities in the U.K.; the Deutsche Bôrse AG and the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) regulate its activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; the Swiss Federal Banking Commission regulates its activities in Switzerland; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange, regulate its activities in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.  

Asset Management.  

Many of the subsidiaries engaged in Morgan Stanley’s asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC, and, in certain states, some employees or representatives of subsidiaries are registered as investment adviser representatives. Many aspects of Morgan Stanley’s asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict Morgan Stanley from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on Morgan Stanley engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time, the revocation of registrations, other censures and fines.  

Morgan Stanley’s Asset Management business is also regulated outside the U.S. For example, the Financial Services Authority regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in Japan; the Securities and Exchange Board of India regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in India; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates Morgan Stanley’s business in Singapore.  

For a discussion of certain risks relating to Morgan Stanley’s regulatory environment, see “Risk Factors” herein. 

15  

Table of Contents 

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.  

The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of January 28, 2009 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.  

John J. Mack (64). Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (since June 2005). Chairman of Pequot Capital Management (June 2005). Co-Chief Executive Officer of Credit Suisse Group (January 2003 to June 2004). President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Credit Suisse First Boston (July 2001 to June 2004). President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (May 1997 to March 2001).  

Walid Chammah (54). Co-President (since December 2007). Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley International (since July 2007). Head of Investment Banking (August 2005 to July 2007) and Head of Global Capital Markets (July 2002 to August 2005).  

James Gorman (50). Co-President (since December 2007) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (since October 2007). President and Chief Operating Officer of the Global Wealth Management Group (February 2006 to April 2008). Head of Corporate Acquisitions Strategy & Research at Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (“Merrill Lynch”) (July 2005 to August 2005) and President of the Global Private Client business at Merrill Lynch (December 2002 to July 2005). Director of MSCI Inc. (since November 2007).  

Colm Kelleher (51). Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (since October 2007). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006). Head of Fixed Income Sales Europe (December 2000 to May 2004).  

Gary G. Lynch (58). Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer (since October 2005). Global General Counsel (October 2001 to October 2005) of Credit Suisse First Boston. Executive Vice Chairman (July 2004 to October 2005) and Vice Chairman (December 2002 to July 2004) of Credit Suisse First Boston and member of the Executive Board (July 2004 to July 2005) of Credit Suisse Group. Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell (September 1989 to October 2001).  

Thomas R. Nides (47). Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary (since September 2005). Worldwide President and Chief Executive Officer of Burson-Marsteller (November 2004 to August 2005). Chief Administrative Officer of Credit Suisse First Boston (June 2001 to June 2004).  

Kenneth M. deRegt (53). Chief Risk Officer (since February 2008). Managing Director of Aetos Capital, LLC, an investment management firm (December 2002 to February 2008). Director of MSCI Inc. (since November 2007).  

Linda H. Riefler (48). Global Head of Research (since December 2008). Chief Talent Officer (June 2006 to November 2008). Head of Client Services (October 2005 to June 2006). Managing Director of MS&Co. (since December 1998). Director of MSCI Inc. (since October 2005).  

16  

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.