Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

Liquidity Risk.  

Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that Morgan Stanley will be unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating its assets. Liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of Morgan Stanley to meet its financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten its viability as a going concern. For more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.  

Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be substantially affected in a negative fashion by an inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or an inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. 

Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings.  

The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. Factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings include the level and quality of our earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality and business mix.  

Our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade.  

We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries.  

We depend on dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws and regulations that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws and regulations may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends. The OCC, the Fed and the FDIC have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank holding company subsidiaries.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Future dividend payments and common stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury’s equity investment in us.  

Under the terms of the CPP, for so long as any preferred stock issued under the CPP remains outstanding, we are prohibited from increasing dividends on our common stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including our common stock, without the U.S. Treasury’s consent until the third anniversary of the U.S. Treasury’s investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties. Furthermore, as long as the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Equity Capital Management Policies” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

Our liquidity and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by U.S. and international markets and economic conditions.  

Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has been and could continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economy. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, and in the past six months the volatility has reached unprecedented levels. In particular, our cost and availability of funding have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. As a result of concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us. 

Market Risk.  

Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices of commodities or securities, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. For more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see “Risk Management—Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors.  

The amount, duration and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to economic and other factors. Results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; or a combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. These factors also may have an impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.  

The results of our Institutional Securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. These fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. Fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the   

18  

Table of Contents 

 realization of returns from our principal investments. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Global Wealth Management Group business segment. In addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management business segment.  

We may experience further writedowns of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions.  

Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.  

Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses.  

Concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. We commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or make large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region.  

Markets have experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of high volatility accompanied by reduced liquidity.  

Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. Morgan Stanley’s risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and Morgan Stanley could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy.  

We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector.  

We finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets, and originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. We also securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. These businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector.  

19  

Table of Contents 

Credit Risk.  

Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. For more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see “Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

We are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations.  

We incur significant “single-name” credit risk exposure through the Institutional Securities business segment. This risk may arise, for example, from entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have long-term obligations to make payments to us and by extending credit to our clients through various credit arrangements. Corporate clients seek loans or lending commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. We incur “individual consumer” credit risk in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment through margin and non-purpose loans to individual investors, which are collateralized by securities.  

Recent market conditions, including decreased liquidity and pricing transparency along with increased market volatility, will negatively impact our “single-name” credit risk exposure. In addition, as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.  

Defaults by another larger financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally.  

The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Morgan Stanley.  

Operational Risk.  

Operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm’s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources, systems or from external events (e.g., external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.). Morgan Stanley may incur operational risk across its full scope of business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology and trade processing). Legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under “Legal Risk.” For more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see “Operational Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

We are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our businesses.  

Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. In general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. We perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. We rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions.  

We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or third party’s systems or improper action by third parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services used by Morgan Stanley, its employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.  

Legal Risk.  

Legal risk refers to the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. Legal risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty’s performance obligations will be unenforceable. For more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see “Risk Management—Legal Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by regulations to which we are and will become subject as a result of becoming a financial holding company.  

On September 21, 2008, we obtained approval from the Fed to become a bank holding company. On September 23, 2008, we became a financial holding company concurrent with the conversion of Morgan Stanley Bank into a national bank. We have a statutory grace period of two years, with the possibility of three one-year extensions for a total grace period of five years, to conform existing activities and investments to the restrictions on nonbanking activities that apply to financial holding companies. The BHC Act also grandfathers commodities activities provided that certain conditions are satisfied. In addition, the BHC Act permits the Fed to determine by regulation or order that certain activities are complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a risk to safety and soundness. The Fed has previously determined that a wide range of commodities activities are either financial in nature or complementary to a financial activity. Although we expect to be able to continue to engage in most of the activities in which we currently engage after such time, it is possible that certain of our existing activities will not be deemed to be permissible under applicable regulations. If so, we will be required to divest them before the end of the grace period discussed above. We do not believe that any such required divestment will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  

As a result of becoming a financial holding company, we will be restricted in engaging in new activities that are not financial in nature. This may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider engaging in. In addition, in order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, our depository institution subsidiaries, such as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A., must remain well capitalized and well managed. Under regulations implemented by the Fed, if any depository institution controlled by us no longer meets certain capital or management standards, the Fed may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on us and place limitations on our ability to conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. If any depository institution controlled by us were to fail to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Fed would be required to restrict our and our subsidiaries’ ability to engage in additional activities to the range of activities permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies, which would severely restrict our ability to conduct our business.  

As a financial holding company, we are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the Fed, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements. The Fed generally requires us and our peer financial holding companies to maintain risk-based and leverage capital ratios substantially in excess of the minimum levels required by certain guidelines published by the federal banking regulators, depending upon general economic conditions and each financial holding company’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit our operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements may limit our ability to pay dividends, repay debt or redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present   

21  

Table of Contents 

 business levels. Further requirements, including certain dividend restrictions, have been imposed on us and other financial institutions participating in the CPP (see “Supervision and Regulation—Financial Holding Company—Dividends” in Part I, Item 1 and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Equity Capital Management Policies” in Part II, Item 7 herein).  

Our business, financial condition and results of operations are heavily regulated and could be adversely affected by new regulations or by changes in regulations or the application thereof in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate.  

The financial services industry is heavily regulated. We are subject to extensive regulation globally and face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities.  

In light of current conditions in the global financial markets and the global economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Most recently, governments in the U.S. and abroad have intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding to the stresses experienced in the global financial markets. Steps undertaken in the U.S. include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, including by establishing a commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, insuring deposits in certain transaction deposit accounts, and injecting capital into financial institutions. Some of the measures subject us and other institutions for which they were designed to additional restrictions, oversight or costs that may have an impact on our business, results of operations or the price of our common stock.  

Proposals for legislation that could substantially intensify the regulation of the financial services industry are expected to be introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and around the world. The agencies regulating the financial services industry also frequently adopt changes to their regulations. Substantial regulatory and legislative initiatives, including a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory system in the U.S. and rules to more closely regulate credit default swaps and other derivative transactions, are possible in the years ahead. We are unable to predict whether any of these initiatives will succeed, which form they will take, or whether any additional changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see “Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 herein.  

The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and regulatory risks, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability.  

We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.  

We are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. The number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. Like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action   

22  

Table of Contents 

 against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. For more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 herein.  

Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies.  

We are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the U.S. and other governments. For example, the actions of the Fed and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict. 

Our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.  

In connection with the commodities activities in our Institutional Securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. In addition, we own six electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe; TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and have an interest in the Heidmar Group of companies, which provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services. As a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. For example, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations.  

Although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. In addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these events.  

We also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. During the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. For example, the EU has increased its focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. We may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. In addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties.  

23  

Table of Contents 

A failure to deal with conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses.  

As a global financial services firm that provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interests in the normal course of business. For example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between Morgan Stanley and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and the Firm or a client on the other. We have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. However, identifying and managing potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. Indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk. It is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses.  

Competitive Environment.  

We face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.  

The financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. In fiscal 2008, this trend accelerated considerably, as several major U.S. financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge, received substantial government assistance or were placed into conservatorship by the U.S. Federal Government. These developments could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. We may experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. For more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see “Competition” in Part I, Item 1 herein.  

Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.  

Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes with performance. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.  

Pursuant to the standardized terms of the CPP described above, among other things, we have agreed to institute certain restrictions on the compensation of certain senior management positions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified senior management. It is possible that the U.S. Treasury may, as it is permitted to do, impose further requirements on us.  

Automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition.  

We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. It is possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.  

24  

Table of Contents 

International Risk.  

We are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways.  

We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases.  

Various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. Crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. These conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally.  

The emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world.  

Acquisition Risk.  

We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances.  

We expect to grow in part through acquisitions, joint ventures and minority stakes. To the extent we make acquisitions or enter into combinations, joint ventures or strategic alliances, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients and business partners. In the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint venture. There is no assurance that our acquisitions or any business we acquire will be successfully integrated and result in all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.  

In October 2008, Morgan Stanley and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. announced a global strategic alliance and have identified areas of potential collaboration for such alliance, including corporate and investment banking, certain areas of retail banking and asset management, and lending activities such as corporate and project related loans. In January 2009, Morgan Stanley and Citi announced they had reached a definitive agreement to combine Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management Group and Citi’s Smith Barney in the U.S., Quilter in the U.K., and Smith Barney Australia into a new joint venture to be called Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (see also “Recent Business Developments” in Part I, Item 1 herein).  

25  

Table of Contents 

Risk Management.  

Our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.  

We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. For more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see “Risk Management—Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

Morgan Stanley, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that Morgan Stanley received not less than 180 days before the end of its fiscal year to which this report relates that Morgan Stanley believes are material.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Item 2. Properties.