Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Introduction.  

Morgan Stanley (the “Company”) is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. A summary of the activities of each of the business segments is as follows.  

Institutional Securities includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; benchmark indices and risk management analytics; and investment activities.  

Global Wealth Management Group provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.  

Asset Management provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which includes hedge funds and funds of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party distribution channels. Asset Management also engages in investment activities.  

The Company’s results of operations for the 12 months ended November 30, 2008 (“fiscal 2008”), November 30, 2007 (“fiscal 2007”) and November 30, 2006 (“fiscal 2006”) are discussed below.  

Financial Holding Company. 

On September 21, 2008, the Company obtained approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Fed”) to become a bank holding company upon the conversion of its wholly owned indirect subsidiary, Morgan Stanley Bank (Utah), from a Utah industrial bank to a national bank. On September 23, 2008, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) authorized Morgan Stanley Bank to commence business as a national bank, operating as Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. Concurrent with this conversion, the Company became a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). For more information about the Company’s transition into a financial holding company, see “Supervision and Regulation—Financial Holding Company” in Part I, Item 1 herein.  

Change in Fiscal Year End.  

On December 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a change in the Company’s fiscal year end from November 30 to December 31 of each year. This change to the calendar year reporting cycle began January 1, 2009. As a result of the change, the Company will have a December 2008 fiscal month transition period, the results of which will be separately reported in the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the calendar quarter ending March 31, 2009 and in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the calendar year ending December 31, 2009.  

Recent Business Developments.  

Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Joint Venture. On January 13, 2009, the Company and Citigroup Inc. (“Citi”) announced they had reached a definitive agreement to combine the Company’s Global Wealth Management Group and Citi’s Smith Barney in the U.S., Quilter in the U.K., and Smith Barney Australia into a new joint venture to be called Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. The Company will own 51%, and Citi will own 49% of the joint venture, after the contribution of the respective businesses to the joint venture and the Company’s payment   

36  

Table of Contents 

 of $2.7 billion to Citi. The Company will appoint four directors to the joint venture’s board and Citi will appoint two directors. After year three, the Company and Citi will have various purchase and sales rights for the joint venture. The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2009 and is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.  

Discontinued Operations.  

On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off (the “Discover Spin-off”) of its business segment Discover Financial Services (“DFS”) to its shareholders. The results of DFS are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of the Discover Spin-off. Fiscal 2008 included costs related to a legal settlement between DFS, VISA and MasterCard. The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd., Global Wealth Management Group’s former mass affluent business in the U.K., are also reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through its sale on February 28, 2007. The results of the Company’s former aircraft leasing business are also reported as discontinued operations through March 24, 2006, the date of sale. See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Executive Summary.  

Financial Information.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

38  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

39  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

N/M—Not Meaningful  

 (1) Amounts represent income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change, net.  

 (2) Earnings applicable to common shareholders are used to calculate earnings per share information. Fiscal 2008 includes a preferred stock dividend of $97 million as well as $15 million for the amortization of discount on the issuance of Series D Preferred Stock and an allocation of $7 million of earnings to the Equity Units. See Notes 11 and 12 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. Fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 include a preferred stock dividend of $68 million and $19 million, respectively.  

 (3) Regional net revenues reflect the regional view of the Company’s consolidated net revenues, on a managed basis, based on the following methodology:  

   Institutional Securities: advisory and equity underwriting—client location; debt underwriting—revenue recording location; sales and trading—trading desk location. Global Wealth Management Group: global representative location. Asset Management: client location, except for the merchant banking business, which is based on asset location.  

 (4) Book value per common share equals common shareholders’ equity of $31,676 million at November 30, 2008, $30,169 million at November 30, 2007 and $34,264 million at November 30, 2006, divided by common shares outstanding of 1,048 million at November 30, 2008, 1,056 million at November 30, 2007 and 1,049 million at November 30, 2006.  

 (5) The computation of average common equity for each business segment is based upon an economic capital framework that estimates the amount of equity capital required to support the businesses over a wide range of market environments while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor requirements. The economic capital framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. The effective tax rates used in the computation of segment return on average common equity were determined on a separate entity basis.  

 (6) For a discussion of average liquidity, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Funding Management Policies—Liquidity Reserves” herein.  

 (7) For a discussion of capital ratios, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein.  

 (8) Equity and fixed income amounts include assets under management or supervision associated with the Asset Management and Global Wealth Management Group business segments. Other amounts include assets under management or supervision associated with the Global Wealth Management Group business segment.  

 (9) Amounts reported for Alternatives reflect the Company’s invested equity in those funds and include a range of alternative investment products such as hedge funds, funds of hedge funds and funds of private equity funds.  

 (10) Revenues and expenses associated with these assets are included in the Company’s Asset Management and Global Wealth Management Group business segments.  

 (11) Amounts represent Asset Management’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.  

 (12) Source: Thomson Reuters, data as of January 5, 2009—The data for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 are for the periods from January 1 to December 31, 2008, January 1 to December 31, 2007 and January 1 to December 31, 2006, respectively, as the industry standard is to view these data on a calendar-year basis.  

 (13) Percentages represent income from continuing operations before income taxes as a percentage of net revenues.  

 (14) Annualized net revenue per global representative amounts equal Global Wealth Management Group’s net revenues (excluding the sale of MSWM S.V., S.A.U.) divided by the quarterly average global representative headcount for the periods presented.  

 (15) The decline in fee-based assets as a percentage of total client assets largely reflected the termination on October 1, 2007 of the Company’s fee-based (fee in lieu of commission) brokerage program pursuant to a court decision vacating a Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) rule that permitted fee-based brokerage. Client assets that were in the fee-based program primarily moved to commission-based brokerage accounts, or at the election of some clients, into other fee-based advisory programs, including Morgan Stanley Advisory, a nondiscretionary account launched in August 2007.  

 (16) Client assets per global representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end global representative headcount.  

 (17) Bank deposits are held at certain of the Company’s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) insured depository institutions for the benefit of retail clients through their accounts.  

 (18) Amounts include Asset Management’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.  

 (19) Source: Lipper, one-year performance excluding money market funds as of November 30, 2008, November 30, 2007 and November 30, 2006, respectively.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Global Market and Economic Conditions in Fiscal 2008.  

During fiscal 2008, a severe downturn in the economy led to price declines and a period of unprecedented volatility across various asset classes. Losses that had previously been limited largely to the subprime mortgage sector during fiscal 2007 spread to residential and commercial mortgages during fiscal 2008 as property prices declined rapidly. The effect of the economic and market downturn also spread to other areas of the credit market, including investment grade and non-investment grade corporate debt, convertible securities, emerging market debt and equity, and leveraged loans. The magnitude of these declines led to a crisis of confidence in the financial sector as a result of concerns about the capital base and viability of certain financial institutions. During this period, interbank lending and commercial paper borrowing fell sharply, precipitating a credit freeze for both institutional and individual borrowers.  

In the U.S., credit conditions worsened considerably over the course of the year, and the U.S. entered into a recession (as announced by the National Bureau of Economic Research) and the credit crisis assumed global proportions. The landscape of the U.S. financial services industry changed dramatically, especially during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (“Lehman Brothers”) declared bankruptcy, and many major U.S. financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge or were put into conservatorship by the U.S. Federal Government, including The Bear Stearns Companies, Inc., Wachovia Corporation, WashingtonMutual, Inc., Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”) and Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”). In addition, the U.S. Federal Government provided a loan to American International Group Inc. (“AIG”) in exchange for an equity interest in AIG. In September 2008, following Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy, the Company and Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. each experienced significantly wider credit spreads on their outstanding debt and sharp declines in stock market capitalization and subsequently received approval from the Fed to become bank holding companies. On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (initially introduced as the Troubled Asset Relief Program or “TARP”) was enacted. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Department of Treasury (the “U.S. Treasury”) announced its intention to inject capital into nine large U.S. financial institutions, including the Company, under the TARP Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”) and since has injected capital into many other financial institutions. In November 2008, the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) and the Fed provided additional assistance to Citi, including an additional capital injection and a government guarantee on certain troubled assets, in exchange for preferred stock as well as other corporate governance measures.  

The U.S. unemployment rate at the end of fiscal 2008 increased to 6.7% from 4.7% at the end of fiscal 2007, reaching the highest level in the last fifteen years. In the U.S., equity market indices ended the fiscal year period significantly lower. Concerns about future economic growth, the adverse developments in the credit markets, mixed views about the U.S. Federal Government’s response to the economic crisis, including the CPP, lower levels of consumer spending, a high rate of unemployment and lower corporate earnings continued to challenge the U.S. economy and the equity markets. Adverse developments in the credit markets, including failed auctions for auction rate securities (“ARS”), rising default rates on residential mortgages, extremely high implied default rates on commercial mortgages and liquidity issues underlying short-term investment products, such as structured investment vehicles and money market funds, weighed heavily as well on equity markets. Oil prices also reached record levels during fiscal 2008 before declining sharply, partly due to lower demand and weaker economic conditions.  

During fiscal 2008, the Fed announced a number of initiatives aimed to provide additional liquidity and stability to the financial markets, and the Fed continues to focus its efforts on mitigating the negative economic impact related to the credit markets. The Fed announced enhancements to its programs to provide additional liquidity to the asset-backed commercial paper and money markets, and the Fed has indicated that it plans to purchase from primary dealers short-term debt obligations issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks. The Fed has established a commercial paper funding facility in order to provide additional liquidity to the short-term debt markets. The Fed continues to consult frequently with its global central bank counterparts and   

41  

Table of Contents 

 during fiscal 2008, a number of coordinated benchmark interest rate reductions were announced by central banks globally. The Fed lowered both the federal funds benchmark rate and the discount rate by 3.50% during fiscal 2008, and at fiscal year end the federal funds target rate was 1.00% and the discount rate was 1.25%. Also, during fiscal 2008, the Fed lowered the primary credit rate by 0.25%. In an additional effort to unlock credit markets, the Fed, the U.S. Treasury and the FDIC announced that the FDIC will temporarily guarantee certain senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their U.S. bank holding companies, subject to certain conditions. In December 2008, the Fed lowered both the federal funds benchmark rate and the discount rate by 0.75% to 0.25% and 0.50%, respectively, and rates remained at historically low levels.  

In Europe, the unemployment rate rose and economic growth continued to slow during fiscal 2008 as export demand decreased, housing prices declined, consumer spending and business investment slowed, and the disruption in the global financial markets continued. In Europe, equity market indices were lower at the end of the fiscal year. Concerns about the economic outlook and difficult conditions in the credit markets continued to challenge the European economy and the equity markets. In the first three quarters of fiscal 2008, the European Central Bank (“ECB”) indicated that it remained concerned about global inflation and raised the benchmark interest rate by 0.25% to 4.25%, while the Bank of England (“BOE”) decreased the benchmark interest rate by an aggregate of 0.75% to 5.00%. In September 2008, the Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy triggered additional credit disruptions, European governments intervened to support large financial institutions and financial services companies within Europe began to consolidate as lending conditions among European banks worsened. After September 2008, global central banks worked collaboratively to reduce interest rates. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the ECB lowered its benchmark interest rates by 1.00% to 3.25% and the BOE lowered its benchmark interest rate by 2.00% to 3.00%. In December 2008, the ECB lowered its benchmark interest rate by 0.75% to 2.50% and the BOE lowered its benchmark interest rate by 1.00% to 2.00%. In January 2009, the ECB lowered its benchmark interest rate by an additional 0.50% to 2.00%, and the BOE lowered its benchmark interest rate by an additional 0.50% to a historically low 1.50%.  

In Asia, the global credit and financial crisis that began in the U.S. and spread throughout Europe adversely impacted the demand for Asian exports, in Japan as well as in emerging markets across Asia. The level of unemployment in Japan, which began the fiscal year at relatively low levels began to rise. Major Asian equity market indices ended fiscal 2008 lower. The Bank of Japan (“BOJ”) lowered the benchmark interest rate by 0.2% to 0.3% during fiscal 2008, and in December 2008, the BOJ reduced its benchmark interest rate by 0.2% to 0.1%. Economies elsewhere in Asia had slower growth, particularly in China and India, due to a lower level of exports, which more than offset domestic demand for capital projects and domestic consumption. Central banks across Asia that previously had relatively high benchmark interest rates, such as Australia, China and India, have all significantly lowered their benchmark interest rates, along with global central bank coordinated interest rate reductions.  

Overview of Fiscal 2008 Financial Results.  

The Company recorded net income of $1,707 million in fiscal 2008, a 47% decrease from $3,209 million in the prior year. Net revenues (total revenues less interest expense) decreased 12% to $24,739 million in fiscal 2008. Non-interest expenses decreased 9% to $22,452 million from the prior year, primarily due to lower compensation costs, partly offset by goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges. Compensation and benefits expense decreased 26%, primarily reflecting lower incentive-based compensation accruals due to lower net revenues in certain of the Company’s businesses. Diluted earnings per share were $1.45 compared with $2.98 a year ago. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $1.54 compared with $2.37 last year. The return on average common equity in fiscal 2008 was 4.9% compared with 8.9% in the prior year. The return on average common equity from continuing operations for fiscal 2008 was 5.2% compared with 7.8% in fiscal 2007.  

The Company’s effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 21.0% in fiscal 2008 compared with 24.5% in fiscal 2007. The decrease primarily reflected lower earnings and a change in the geographic mix of earnings, partly offset by an increase in the rate due to the goodwill impairment charges (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements).  

42  

Table of Contents 

Institutional Securities. Institutional Securities recorded income from continuing operations before income taxes of $2,925 million, a 280% increase from a year ago. Net revenues increased 3% to $16,622 million. The increase in net revenues reflected record equity sales and trading results, higher fixed income sales and trading results, primarily due to lower net mortgage-related losses, gains related to the repurchase of the Company’s debt, pre-tax gains related to two secondary offerings of MSCI Inc. and the widening of credit spreads on the Company’s borrowings for which the fair value option was elected, partially offset by net losses from investments in passive limited partnership interests and lower results in investment banking. Non-interest expenses decreased 11% to $13,697 million, primarily due to lower compensation costs, partially offset by higher non-compensation expenses. Non-compensation expenses increased 24%, primarily due to a charge of approximately $694 million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to certain fixed income businesses.  

Investment banking revenues decreased 34% to $3,630 million from last year due to lower revenues from advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions and lower revenues from underwriting transactions. Advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,740 million, a decrease of 32% from fiscal 2007. Underwriting revenues decreased 37% from last year to $1,890 million. The decrease in investment banking revenues reflected the unprecedented market turmoil in fiscal 2008 that significantly reduced levels of market activity.  

Equity sales and trading revenues increased 10% to a record $9,968 million and reflected higher net revenues from derivative products and slightly higher results in prime brokerage. Equity sales and trading also benefited by approximately $1.6 billion from the widening of the Company’s credit spreads on certain long-term and short-term borrowings accounted for at fair value. Fiscal 2008 reflected lower revenues from principal trading strategies. Fixed income sales and trading revenues were $3,862 million in fiscal 2008 from $268 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 results reflected lower losses in mortgage loan products, record revenues from commodities and record results in foreign exchange products, partially offset by lower net revenues from the interest rate and credit businesses, reflecting the continued dislocation in the credit markets and unfavorable positioning. In addition, fixed income sales and trading benefited by approximately $3.5 billion from the widening of the Company’s credit spreads on certain long-term and short-term borrowings that are accounted for at fair value.  

In fiscal 2008, other sales and trading losses of approximately $3,133 million reflected mark-to-market losses on loans and commitments that were partly offset by gains on related hedges. Fiscal 2008 also included losses related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company’s domestic subsidiary banks. In addition, other sales and trading losses included mark-to-market gains on certain swaps previously designated as hedges of a portion of the Company’s long-term debt. These swaps were no longer considered hedges once the related debt was repurchased by the Company (i.e., the swaps were “de-designated” as hedges). During the period the swaps were hedging the debt, changes in fair value of these instruments were generally offset by adjustments to the basis of the debt being hedged.  

Principal transaction net investment losses aggregating $2,477 million were recognized in fiscal 2008 compared with net investment gains of $1,459 million in fiscal 2007. The losses were primarily related to net realized and unrealized losses from the Company’s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with the Company’s real estate funds and investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans, and other principal investments.  

Global Wealth Management Group. Global Wealth Management Group recorded income from continuing operations before income taxes of $1,154 million compared with $1,155 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 included a pre-tax gain of $687 million related to the sale of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management S.V., S.A.U. (“MSWM S.V.”), the Spanish onshore mass affluent wealth management business (see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements). Fiscal 2008 also included a charge of $532 million associated with the ARS repurchase program and $108 million associated with subsequent writedowns of some of these securities that have been repurchased (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). Net revenues were $7,019 million, a 6% increase over a year ago, primarily related to the previously mentioned sale of MSWM S.V. and higher net interest revenues from growth in the bank deposit program. The increase in net revenues was partly offset by   

43  

Table of Contents 

 lower revenues from asset management, distribution and administration fees and lower investment banking revenues. The decline in asset management revenues reflected a change in the classification of sub-advisory fees due to modifications of certain customer agreements, the discontinuance of the Company’s fee-based (fee in lieu of commission) brokerage program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 pursuant to a court decision vacating an SEC rule that permitted fee-based brokerage and asset depreciation. Client assets in fee-based accounts decreased 32% from a year ago to $136 billion and decreased as a percentage of total client assets to 25% from last year’s 27%. In addition, total client assets decreased to $546 billion, down 28% from the prior fiscal year-end, primarily due to asset depreciation.  

Total non-interest expenses were $5,865 million, a 7% increase from a year ago. Compensation and benefits expense remained flat in fiscal 2008, as severance-related expenses of $41 million and investment in the business were offset by lower incentive-based compensation accruals. Non-compensation costs increased 25%, primarily due to the charge of $532 million for the ARS. In addition, fiscal 2007 included an insurance reimbursement related to a litigation matter. The increase in non-compensation costs was partly offset by a change in the classification of sub-advisory fees due to modifications of certain customer agreements. As of November 30, 2008, the number of global representatives was 8,426.  

Asset Management. Asset Management recorded losses before income taxes of $1,807 million in fiscal 2008 compared with income before income taxes of $1,467 million in fiscal 2007. Net revenues of $1,292 million decreased 76% from the prior year. The decrease in fiscal 2008 primarily reflected principal transaction net investment losses of $1,661 million compared with gains of $1,774 million a year ago. The losses in fiscal 2008 were primarily related to net investment losses associated with the Company’s merchant banking business, which includes the real estate, private equity and infrastructure businesses, and losses associated with certain investments for the benefit of the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The decrease in fiscal 2008 was also due to lower asset management, distribution and administration fees, primarily due to lower performance fees from alternative investment products, lower distribution fees, and lower fund management and administration fees reflecting a decrease in average assets under management. Assets under management or supervision within Asset Management of $399 billion were down $198 billion, or 33%, from last year, primarily reflecting decreases in equity and fixed income products resulting from market depreciation and net outflows. Non-interest expenses decreased 23% from the prior year to $3,099 million. Compensation and benefits expense decreased primarily due to lower net revenues and losses associated with principal investments for the benefit of the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The decrease in compensation expense in fiscal 2008 was partially offset by severance-related expenses of $97 million. The decrease in non-interest expenses was partly offset by an impairment charge of $243 million related to Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited Partnership (“Crescent”).  

Strategic Initiatives.  

The Company has launched several strategic initiatives to further improve its position in the rapidly changing market environment, including:  

   •    Targeting capital to businesses where the Company believes it will have better risk-adjusted returns, including flow trading, equity derivatives, foreign exchange, interest rates and commodities;  

   •    Engaging in a reduction of balance sheet intensive businesses within the Institutional Securities business segment, including a resizing of prime brokerage and the exit from select proprietary trading strategies;  

   •    Targeting an additional $2 billion in cost savings, including the annualized effect of the previously announced headcount reductions and additional non-compensation expense savings in 2009;  

   •    Developing a global alliance with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (“MUFG”), Japan’s largest banking group, and pursuing initiatives in corporate and investment banking, retail banking and lending activities;  

   •    Launching a Retail Banking business to build bank deposits leveraging the Company’s existing retail banking capabilities and financial holding company structure; and  

   •    Forming the largest wealth management business firm with Citi, as measured by financial advisors, through a joint venture (see “Recent Business Developments” herein).  

44  

Table of Contents 

Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations.  

The Company’s results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic factors. In addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political and economic conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income and credit markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to the Company’s unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the Company’s reputation; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; and the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation, and technological changes in the U.S. and worldwide. Such factors also may have an impact on the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the Company’s business, see “Competition” and “Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.  

The following items significantly affected the Company’s results in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007.  

Corporate Lending. The results for fiscal 2008 included net losses of approximately $3.3 billion (consisting of negative mark-to-market valuations and losses of approximately $6.3 billion net of gains on related hedges of approximately $3.0 billion) associated with loans and lending commitments largely related to “event-driven” lending to non-investment grade companies. These losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during the year.  

The results for fiscal 2007 included losses of approximately $700 million, primarily recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2007 that reflected mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and lending commitments largely related to “event-driven” lending to non-investment grade companies. The losses included markdowns of leveraged lending commitments associated with “event-driven” lending transactions that were accepted by the borrower but not yet closed. These losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during the second half of fiscal 2007.  

Mortgage-Related Trading Losses. In fiscal 2008, the Company recorded mortgage-related losses of approximately $1.7 billion. The $1.7 billion included losses on non-subprime residential mortgages of approximately $2.6 billion, partially offset by gains on commercial mortgage-backed securities and commercial whole loan positions of approximately $800 million and gains of approximately $100 million on U.S. subprime mortgage proprietary trading exposures. See “Other Matters—Real Estate-Related Positions” herein for information relating to the Company’s mortgage-related trading exposures.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company recorded $9.0 billion of mortgage-related writedowns resulting from an unfavorable subprime mortgage-related trading strategy and the deterioration and lack of market liquidity for subprime and other mortgage-related instruments. The writedowns included $7.8 billion related to U.S. subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”). These derivative positions were entered into primarily by the Company’s mortgage proprietary trading group. As the credit markets in general, and the mortgage markets in particular, declined dramatically in the fourth quarter, increases in the implied cumulative losses in the subprime mortgage market, coupled with the illiquid nature of the Company’s trading positions, led to a significant deterioration in value in its subprime-related trading positions. The writedowns in fiscal 2007 also included $1.2 billion related to commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”), Alt-A mortgages (a categorization that falls between prime and subprime due to certain loan characteristics) and other loans, conduit and non-performing loans and European non-conforming loans.  

Subsidiary Banks. The Company recorded losses of approximately $900 million in fiscal 2008 related to mortgage-related securities portfolios of Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust (collectively, the   

45  

Table of Contents 

 “Subsidiary Banks”). See “Other Matters—Real Estate-Related Positions—Subsidiary Banks” herein for further information on these securities portfolios.  

Prior to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the securities in the Subsidiary Banks’ portfolios were classified as securities available for sale in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” (“SFAS No. 115”). In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company determined that it no longer intended to hold these securities until the fair value of the securities recovered to a level that exceeded their initial cost. Accordingly, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $437 million in Principal transactions-trading revenues in the consolidated statement of income on its portfolio of securities available for sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and reclassified the portfolios to Financial instruments owned in the consolidated statement of financial condition effective November 30, 2007.  

Auction Rate Securities. Under the terms of various agreements entered into with government agencies and the terms of the Company’s announced offer to repurchase, the Company agreed to repurchase at par certain ARS held by retail clients that were purchased through the Company. In addition, the Company agreed to reimburse retail clients who have sold certain ARS purchased through the Company at a loss. Fiscal 2008 reflected charges of $532 million for the ARS repurchase program and writedowns of $108 million associated with ARS held in inventory (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Monoline Insurers. Monoline insurers (“Monolines”) provide credit enhancement to capital markets transactions. Fiscal 2008 included losses of $1.7 billion related to monoline exposures. The current credit environment severely affected the capacity of such financial guarantors. The Company’s direct exposure to Monolines is limited to bonds that are insured by Monolines and to derivative contracts with a Monoline as counterparty. The Company’s exposure to Monolines at November 30, 2008 consisted primarily of asset-backed securities (“ABS”) bonds of approximately $700 million in the Subsidiary Banks’ portfolio that are collateralized primarily by first and second lien subprime mortgages enhanced by financial guarantees, $3.1 billion in insured municipal bond securities and approximately $500 million in net counterparty exposure (gross exposure of approximately $8.0 billion net of cumulative credit valuation adjustments of approximately $3.8 billion and net of hedges). The Company’s exposure to Monolines at November 30, 2007 consisted primarily of ABS bonds of $1.5 billion in the Subsidiary Banks’ portfolio, $1.3 billion in insured municipal bond securities and $800 million in net counterparty exposure. The Company’s hedging program for Monoline risk includes the use of both CDSs and transactions that effectively mitigate certain market risk components of existing underlying transactions with the Monolines. The increase in the Company’s exposure to Monolines from November 30, 2007 was primarily due to the ARS repurchase program as previously mentioned, as many ARS are insured by Monolines.  

Structured Investment Vehicles. The Company recognized losses of $470 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $129 million in fiscal 2007 related to securities issued by structured investment vehicles (“SIVs”) included in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition (see “Asset Management” herein).  

Real Estate Holdings and Real Estate Investor Funds. Principal transaction net investment revenues in fiscal 2008 included losses related to real estate holdings and investor funds. Approximately $1.2 billion and $0.9 billion of these losses were recognized in the Institutional Securities and Asset Management business segments, respectively. Losses in the Institutional Securities business segment were related to net realized and unrealized losses from the Company’s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with the Company’s real estate funds. Losses in the Asset Management business segment included writedowns on its investment in Crescent of approximately $250 million prior to the Company consolidating its assets and liabilities in fiscal 2008. These writedowns are reflected in Principal transactions—investments in the consolidated statement of income.  

Also, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $243 million related to Crescent, which is reflected in Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income. See “Other Matters—Real Estate-Related Positions” herein for further information.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Goodwill and Intangibles. Fiscal 2008 included impairment charges related to goodwill and intangible assets of $725 million (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements). Given the future uncertainty in the performance of financial market and economic conditions, the Company will perform an interim impairment test as necessary in 2009, which could result in additional impairment charges.  

Morgan Stanley Debt. Net revenues benefited by approximately $5.6 billion and $840 million in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively, from the widening of the Company’s credit spreads on certain long-term and short-term borrowings, including structured notes and junior subordinated debentures, that are accounted for at fair value.  

In addition, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company recorded gains of approximately $2.3 billion from repurchasing its debt in the open market and mark-to-market gains of approximately $1.4 billion on certain swaps previously designated as hedges of a portion of the Company’s long-term debt. These swaps were no longer considered hedges once the related debt was repurchased by the Company (i.e., the swaps were “de-designated” as hedges). During the period the swaps were hedging the debt, changes in fair value of these instruments were generally offset by adjustments to the basis of the debt being hedged.  

Sales of Subsidiaries and Other Items. Results for fiscal 2008 included a pre-tax gain of $1.5 billion related to the secondary offerings of MSCI Inc. and a pre-tax gain of $687 million related to the sale of MSWM S.V. (see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Results for fiscal 2007 included a gain of $168 million ($109 million after-tax) in discontinued operations related to the sale of Quilter Holdings Ltd. on February 28, 2007 (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements) and the $360 million reversal of the Coleman (Parent) Holdings Inc. (“Coleman”) litigation reserve.  

Capital-Related Transactions.  

During fiscal 2008, the Company entered into several capital-related transactions that increased shareholders’ equity and long-term borrowings by approximately $24.6 billion. Such transactions included the sale of equity units (the “Equity Units”) to a wholly owned subsidiary of the China Investment Corporation Ltd. (“CIC”) for approximately $5.6 billion and the issuance to MUFG of shares of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock and shares of Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock for a total of $9 billion. In addition, the Company, as part of the CPP, issued to the U.S. Treasury 10,000,000 shares of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and Warrants to purchase 65,245,759 shares of common stock for a purchase price of $10 billion.  

See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these capital-related transactions.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Business Segments.  

Substantially all of the Company’s operating revenues and operating expenses can be directly attributed to its business segments. Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective revenues or other relevant measures.  

As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the segment results to the Company’s consolidated results. Income before taxes in Intersegment Eliminations represents the effect of timing differences associated with the revenue and expense recognition of commissions paid by the Asset Management business segment to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment associated with sales of certain products and the related compensation costs paid to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment’s global representatives. Income from continuing operations before income taxes recorded in Intersegment Eliminations was $15 million, $2 million and $23 million in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. Included in the results of Intersegment Eliminations for fiscal 2007 is a $25 million advisory fee related to the Discover Spin-off that was eliminated in consolidation. In addition, the results in the Institutional Securities business segment for fiscal 2006 included a $30 million advisory fee related to the Company’s sale of its former aircraft leasing business that was eliminated in consolidation.  

48  

Table of Contents 

INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues are comprised of fees from advisory services and revenues from the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans. Investment banking revenues were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Investment banking revenues decreased 34% in fiscal 2008, reflecting the unprecedented market turmoil in fiscal 2008 that significantly reduced levels of market activity. This contrasts to fiscal 2007, when investment banking revenues increased 31% from fiscal 2006 and reached record levels, reflecting a more favorable market environment with higher levels of advisory and capital raising activity.  

In fiscal 2008, advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,740 million, a decrease of 32% from fiscal 2007. Advisory fees in fiscal 2008 reflected lower levels of activity due to the challenging market environment. In fiscal 2007, advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions increased 45% to a record $2,541 million, primarily reflecting a strong volume of transaction activity.  

Equity underwriting revenues decreased 33% to $1,045 million in fiscal 2008, reflecting significantly lower levels of market activity, particularly for initial public offerings. Equity underwriting revenues increased 48% to a record $1,570 million in fiscal 2007, reflecting higher global industry-wide equity and equity-related activity.  

49  

Table of Contents 

Fixed income underwriting revenues decreased 41% to $845 million in fiscal 2008 and increased 1% to $1,427 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 revenues were impacted by significantly lower levels of market activity across most products, particularly loan syndications and securitized products. The 1% increase in fiscal 2007 was primarily due to strong revenues from underwriting investment grade corporate products, which was partially offset by declines in other debt products, primarily non-investment grade.  

At the end of fiscal 2008, the backlog for investment banking transactions was lower across most products as compared with the end of fiscal 2007, reflecting difficult market conditions. The backlog of merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions and equity and fixed income underwriting transactions is subject to the risk that transactions may not be completed due to challenging or unforeseen economic and market conditions, adverse developments regarding one of the parties to the transaction, a failure to obtain required regulatory approval or a decision on the part of the parties involved not to pursue a transaction.  

Sales and Trading Revenues. Sales and trading revenues are composed of principal transaction trading revenues, commissions and net interest revenues (expenses). In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views principal trading, commissions and net interest revenues (expenses) in the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to principal transactions are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company’s positions, and other related expenses.  

The components of the Company’s sales and trading revenues are described below:  

Principal Transactions–Trading. Principal transaction trading revenues include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company’s positions, as well as proprietary trading activities for its own account.  

Commissions. Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter (“OTC”) equity securities and options.  

Net Interest. Interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements, trading strategies, customer activity in the Company’s prime brokerage business, and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Certain reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions may be entered into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions.  

Total sales and trading revenues increased 33% and decreased 47% in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. The increase in fiscal 2008 reflected higher equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues, partially offset by higher losses in other sales and trading revenue.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Sales and trading revenues can also be analyzed as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Amounts include Principal transactions—trading, Commissions and Net interest revenues (expenses). Other sales and trading net revenues primarily include net losses from loans and lending commitments and related hedges associated with the Company’s investment banking, corporate lending and other corporate activities. All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

Equity Sales and Trading Revenues. Equity sales and trading revenues increased 10% to a record $9,968 million in fiscal 2008 and reflected record net revenues from derivative products and slightly higher results in prime brokerage. Equity sales and trading revenues also benefited from the widening of the Company’s credit spreads on financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value, including, but not limited to, those for which the fair value option was elected pursuant to SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS No. 159”) on December 1, 2006 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Equity sales and trading revenues reflected approximately $1.6 billion due to the widening of the Company’s credit spreads during fiscal 2008 resulting from the decrease in the fair value of certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected. Revenues from derivative products reflected higher customer flows and high levels of volatility. Principal trading strategies reflected significantly lower revenues in fiscal 2008 as the Company exited select proprietary trading strategies. Although prime brokerage revenues increased in fiscal 2008, in the fourth quarter, the Company’s prime brokerage business experienced significant outflows as clients withdrew their cash balances and reallocated positions. These outflows have had a negative impact on prime brokerage’s operating results in fiscal 2008.  

Fiscal 2008 equity sales and trading revenues also reflected unrealized losses of approximately $300 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the counterparties’ credit default spreads. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of approximately $125 million in fiscal 2008 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads. The unrealized losses and gains do not reflect any gains or losses on related non-derivative hedging instruments.  

Equity sales and trading revenues increased 38% to a then record $9,040 million in fiscal 2007, benefiting from international revenues. The increase was driven by higher revenues from derivative products, prime brokerage and equity cash and financing products, partially offset by trading losses in quantitative strategies resulting from unfavorable positioning. Revenues from derivative products benefited from strong customer flows. Prime brokerage generated increased revenues, reflecting continued growth in global client asset balances. Higher revenues from financing products were primarily due to higher commission revenues driven by strong market volumes. Equity sales and trading revenues also reflected approximately $390 million due to the widening of the Company’s credit spreads resulting from the decrease in the fair value of certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected.  

Fixed Income Sales and Trading Revenues. Fixed income sales and trading revenues increased to $3,862 million in fiscal 2008 from $268 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 results reflected lower losses in mortgage loan products, record revenues from commodities and record results in foreign exchange products, partially offset by lower net revenues from the interest rate and credit businesses. Interest rate, currency and credit products revenues decreased 55% in fiscal 2008. Continued dislocation in the credit markets resulted in lower net revenues from credit products including losses of $1.7 billion related to exposure to monoline insurers (see   

51  

Table of Contents 

 “Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Monoline Insurers” herein) and unfavorable positioning, partially offset by higher revenues from foreign exchange products and strong results in interest rate products. Record results in foreign exchange products were primarily due to higher levels of customer flows and market volatility. Mortgage-related losses of approximately $1.7 billion were primarily due to a broadening decline in the residential and commercial mortgage sector. The decline in the Company’s mortgage loan product activities reflected the difficult credit market conditions in fiscal 2008. See “Other Matters—Real Estate-Related Positions” herein for further information. Commodity revenues increased 62%, primarily due to higher revenues from oil liquids and electricity and natural gas products, reflecting higher market volatility and strong customer flow. Fixed income sales and trading revenues also benefited in fiscal 2008 by approximately $3.5 billion from the widening of the Company’s credit spreads resulting from the decrease in the fair value of certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected.  

Fiscal 2008 fixed income sales and trading revenues reflected unrealized losses of approximately $6.6 billion related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the counterparties’ credit default spreads. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of approximately $2.0 billion in fiscal 2008, related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads. The unrealized losses and gains do not reflect any gains or losses on related non-derivative hedging instruments.  

Fixed income sales and trading revenues decreased 97% to $268 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2007 results reflected significant losses in credit products and lower results in commodities, partially offset by record results in interest rate and currency products. Credit product revenues decreased $9.4 billion, primarily reflecting mortgage-related writedowns of $7.8 billion, reflecting the deterioration in value of U.S. subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in CDOs entered into primarily by the Company’s mortgage proprietary trading group. Spread widening, lower liquidity and higher volatility resulted in lower origination, securitization and trading results across most credit product groups and also adversely affected the performance of the Company’s hedging strategies. The Company’s residential and commercial mortgage loan activities contributed to the significant decline in credit product revenues, reflecting the difficult market conditions, as well as continued concerns in the subprime mortgage loan sector. Interest rate, credit and currency products revenues increased 16% in fiscal 2007, reflecting higher revenues from interest rate, emerging markets and foreign exchange products. Commodity revenues decreased 33%, primarily due to lower trading results from oil liquids, electricity and natural gas products and lower revenues recognized on structured transactions. Fixed income sales and trading revenues also benefited from gains on interest rate derivatives. Fixed income sales and trading revenues also benefited in fiscal 2007 by approximately $450 million from the widening of the Company’s credit spreads resulting from the decrease in the fair value of certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected.  

In addition to the equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues discussed above, sales and trading revenues included other trading revenues, consisting primarily of certain activities associated with the Company’s corporate lending activities. In connection with its corporate lending activities, the Company provides to select clients loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) that are generally classified as either “event-driven” or “relationship-driven.” “Event-driven” loans and commitments refer to activities associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization transactions. “Relationship-driven” loans and lending commitments are generally made to expand business relationships with select clients. For further information about the Company’s corporate lending activities, see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk.” The Company’s corporate lending business intends to distribute its current positions; however, this is taking substantially longer than in the past due to market conditions. Widening credit spreads for non-investment grade loans have resulted in significant writedowns in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, and further deterioration could result in additional writedowns for these loans and lending commitments in excess of hedges. The fair value measurement of loans and lending commitments takes into account certain fee income that is attributable to the contingent commitment contract.  

52  

Table of Contents 

In fiscal 2008, other sales and trading losses were approximately $3.1 billion. Included in the $3.1 billion were net losses of $3.3 billion (negative mark-to-market valuations and losses of $6.3 billion, net of gains on related hedges of $3.0 billion) associated with loans and lending commitments largely related to certain “event-driven” lending to non-investment grade companies. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or if the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. The $3.1 billion also included writedowns of securities of approximately $1.2 billion in the Company’s Subsidiary Banks. For further information, see “Other Matters—Real Estate-Related Positions—Subsidiary Banks” herein. In addition, other sales and trading losses included mark-to-market gains of approximately $1.4 billion on certain swaps previously designated as hedges of a portion of the Company’s long-term debt. These swaps were no longer considered hedges once the related debt was repurchased by the Company (i.e., the swaps were “de-designated” as hedges). During the period the swaps were hedging the debt, changes in fair value of these instruments were generally offset by adjustments to the basis of the debt being hedged.  

In fiscal 2007, other sales and trading losses of approximately $1.2 billion primarily reflected approximately $700 million of mark-to-market valuations associated with loans and commitments largely related to “event-driven” lending to non-investment grade companies and the impairment charge related to securities in the Company’s Subsidiary Banks. The losses included markdowns of leveraged lending commitments associated with “event-driven” lending transactions that were accepted by the borrower but not yet closed. These losses were primarily related to the illiquid market conditions that existed during the second half of fiscal 2007.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. The Company’s investments generally are held for long-term appreciation. It is not possible to determine when the Company will realize the value of such investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Moreover, estimates of the fair value of the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.  

Principal transaction net investment losses aggregating $2,477 million were recognized in fiscal 2008 as compared with net investment gains aggregating $1,459 million and $1,081 million in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. The losses in fiscal 2008 were primarily related to net realized and unrealized losses from the Company’s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with the Company’s real estate funds and investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans and other principal investments. The increase in fiscal 2007 was primarily related to realized and unrealized net gains associated with certain of the Company’s investments, including Grifols S.A. and Bovespa Holdings S.A., and higher revenues from the Company’s investments in passive limited partnership interests associated with the Company’s real estate funds. The increase in fiscal 2007 also reflected higher revenues primarily due to the appreciation of investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Fiscal 2006’s results primarily reflected net gains associated with the Company’s investments.  

Other. Other revenues increased 395% in fiscal 2008 and 132% in fiscal 2007. The increase in fiscal 2008 reflected revenues related to Institutional Securities’ share (approximately $2.1 billion) of the Company’s repurchase of debt (see “Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Morgan Stanley Debt” herein for further discussion) and two secondary offerings of MSCI Inc. totaling approximately $1.5 billion (see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements). Fiscal 2008 also included a gain associated with the sale of a controlling interest in a previously consolidated commodities subsidiary. The increase in fiscal 2007 was primarily attributable to revenues related to the operation of pipelines, terminals and barges and higher sales of benchmark indices and portfolio risk performance analytic products.  

Non-Interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses decreased 11% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to lower compensation expense. Compensation and benefits expense decreased 28%, primarily reflecting lower incentive-based compensation accruals due to a challenging market environment, partially offset by severance-related expenses of $653 million in fiscal 2008. Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 24%. Fiscal 2008 results included a charge of approximately $694 million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to certain fixed income businesses (see Note 6 to the consolidated financial   

53  

Table of Contents 

 statements), and fiscal 2007’s results included a reversal of the $360 million legal accrual related to the Company’s favorable outcome from the Coleman litigation. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 27%, primarily due to higher depreciation expense on property and equipment and higher costs associated with exiting certain property lease agreements. Information processing and communications expense increased 5% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher data processing costs and market data. Marketing and business development expense decreased 7%, primarily due to lower levels of business activity. Other expenses increased 141%, reflecting the previously mentioned charge of approximately $694 million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and the legal reversal of $360 million in fiscal 2007 as previously mentioned, partially offset by lower minority interest.  

Non-interest expenses increased 15% in fiscal 2007. Compensation and benefits expense increased 10%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals for certain businesses. The increase also reflected higher costs associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans, partially offset by Institutional Securities’ share ($190 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 24%, reflecting increased levels of business activity and expenses associated with acquired businesses. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 33%, primarily due to higher rent and occupancy costs in Europe, Asia and the U.S. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 30%, primarily reflecting substantially increased equity and fixed income trading activity. Marketing and business development expense increased 27%, primarily due to a higher level of business activity. Professional services expense increased 6%, primarily due to higher legal and consulting costs related to increased business activity. Other expenses increased 51%, reflecting costs associated with the subsidiaries acquired in September and December 2006, partially offset by lower net litigation accruals. Fiscal 2007 results included a reversal of the $360 million legal accrual related to the Company’s favorable outcome from the Coleman litigation. Fiscal 2006 included legal accruals related to the pending settlement of General American litigation, which was partially offset by a favorable outcome related to the LVMH litigation.  

54  

Table of Contents 

GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT GROUP  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Investment Banking. Global Wealth Management Group investment banking includes revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and unit trusts, which are generally earned from offerings underwritten by the Institutional Securities business segment. Investment banking revenues decreased 32% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to lower underwriting activity across equity and unit trust products, partially offset by an increase in fixed income underwriting activity. Investment banking revenues increased 46% in fiscal 2007, primarily due to strong underwriting activity across equity, fixed income and unit trust products.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. Principal transactions include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company’s inventory positions held, primarily to facilitate customer transactions. Principal transaction trading revenues increased 3% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher revenues from municipal, corporate and government fixed income securities, partially offset by $108 million in writedowns on $3.8 billion of ARS repurchased from clients and held on the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition and losses associated with investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation plans. In fiscal 2007, principal transaction trading revenues increased 23%, primarily due to higher revenues from derivative products, municipal and corporate fixed income securities, and foreign exchange products and higher revenues associated with investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation plans.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. Principal transaction net investment losses were $54 million in fiscal 2008 compared with net investment gains of $29 million and $57 million in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. The results in fiscal 2008 reflected net losses associated with investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation plans. The results in fiscal 2007 reflected lower net gains from certain of the Company’s investments in exchanges and memberships compared with fiscal 2006.  

Commissions. Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commission revenues decreased 2% in fiscal 2008, reflecting lower client activity. Commission revenues increased 23% in fiscal 2007, reflecting higher client activity.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees for investment management, account services and administration. The Company also receives shareholder servicing fees and fees for services it provides in distributing certain open-ended mutual funds and other products. Mutual fund distribution fees are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 11% in fiscal 2008 compared with an 11% increase in fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2008, the decrease was driven by a change in the classification of sub-advisory fees due to modifications of certain customer agreements, the discontinuance of the Company’s fee-based brokerage program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and asset depreciation. In fiscal 2007, the increase was primarily due to higher client asset balances in fee-based accounts. Client assets in fee-based accounts decreased 32% to $136 billion as of November 30, 2008 and represented 25% of total client assets versus 27% at November 30, 2007. Client assets in fee-based accounts rose 3% to $201 billion at November 30, 2007 and represented 27% of total client assets versus 29% at November 30, 2006.  

Total client asset balances decreased to $546 billion as of November 30, 2008 from $758 billion as of November 30, 2007, primarily due to asset depreciation. Client asset balances in households greater than $1 million decreased to $349 billion as of November 30, 2008 from $522 billion at November 30, 2007 and $442 billion at November 30, 2006.  

Net Interest. Interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including customer bank deposits and margin loans and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions. Net interest revenues increased 32% and 46% in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. The increase in both periods was primarily due to increased customer account balances in the bank deposit program. Balances in the bank deposit program rose to $36.4 billion as of November 30, 2008 from $26.2 billion at November 30, 2007.  

Other. Other revenues primarily include customer account service fees and other miscellaneous revenues. Other revenues were $965 million and $163 million in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. Fiscal 2008 included $743 million related to the sale of MSWM S.V., the Spanish onshore mass affluent wealth management business, during the second quarter of fiscal 2008 (see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements) and Global Wealth Management Group’s share ($43 million) of the Company’s repurchase of debt (see “Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Morgan Stanley Debt” herein for further discussion). Fiscal 2007 reflected higher service fees and higher other miscellaneous revenues.  

Non-Interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 7% in fiscal 2008, primarily reflecting the charge of $532 million for the ARS repurchase program (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements). Compensation and benefits expense remained flat in fiscal 2008, as severance-related expenses of $41 million and investment in the business were offset by lower incentive-based compensation accruals. Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 25%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 8%, primarily due to an increase in space costs and branch renovations. Professional services expense decreased 40%, primarily due to the change in the classification of sub-advisory fees due to modifications of certain customer agreements and lower legal costs. Other expenses increased 206%, primarily resulting from the charge of $532 million related to ARS as previously mentioned and higher litigation costs.  

56  

Table of Contents 

Non-interest expenses increased 9% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in compensation and benefits expense, partially offset by lower non-compensation expenses, primarily due to lower charges for legal and regulatory matters and continued cost discipline across the business. Compensation and benefits expense increased 15%, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals due to higher net revenues and investments in the business, partially offset by Global Wealth Management Group’s share ($50 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses decreased 2%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 6%, primarily due to leasehold improvements and higher rental costs. Information processing and communications expense decreased 8%, primarily due to lower computing costs. Marketing and business development expense increased 39%, primarily due to costs associated with the Company’s advertising campaign. Other expenses decreased 20%, primarily resulting from a reduction in costs associated with legal and regulatory matters, which included an insurance reimbursement related to a litigation matter.  

57  

Table of Contents 

ASSET MANAGEMENT  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Investment Banking. Asset Management generates investment banking revenues primarily from the placement of investments in real estate funds and the underwriting of unit trust products. Investment banking revenues decreased 77% in fiscal 2008 and increased 91% in fiscal 2007. The decrease in fiscal 2008 primarily reflected lower revenues from real estate products. The increase in fiscal 2007 primarily reflected higher revenues from certain real estate products.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. In fiscal 2008, the Company recognized losses of $346 million, which included $470 million related to securities issued by SIVs included in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition. These losses were partially offset by net gains from hedges on certain investments. In fiscal 2007, the Company recognized losses of $129 million related to SIVs.  

SIVs are unconsolidated entities that issue various capital notes and debt instruments to fund the purchase of assets. While the Company does not sponsor or serve as asset manager to any unconsolidated SIVs, the Company does serve as investment advisor to certain unconsolidated money market funds (“Funds”) that have investments in securities issued by SIVs. In the second half of fiscal 2007, widespread illiquidity in the commercial paper market led to market value declines and rating agency downgrades of many securities issued by SIVs, some of which were held by the Funds. As a result, the Company purchased at amortized cost approximately $900 million of such securities from the Funds during fiscal 2007 and $217 million of such securities during fiscal 2008. The carrying value of the purchased securities still held by the Company as of November 30, 2008 was $209 million. Such positions are reflected at fair value and are presented in Financial instruments owned—Corporate and other debt in the consolidated statements of financial condition. The Funds had investments in securities issued by SIVs of an aggregate face value of approximately $100 million as of November 30, 2008 compared with $8.2 billion as of November 30, 2007. Subsequent to November 30, 2008, the Company has not purchased additional SIV securities from the Funds and the Funds no longer have investments in such securities. The Company has no obligation to purchase any additional securities from the Funds in the future.  

58  

Table of Contents 

During fiscal 2008, money market and liquidity funds advised by the Company’s asset management affiliates that invest primarily in corporate obligations experienced net outflows of $18 billion. Credit and liquidity conditions deteriorated in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, resulting in material redemptions from corporate money market and liquidity funds. The Company purchased approximately $25 billion of securities from the funds during fiscal 2008. Most of the securities have matured or were sold by the Company. At November 30, 2008, $600 million were included in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition. The securities were purchased by the Company to fund investor redemptions amid illiquid trading markets for a wide range of money market instruments. Securities purchased included commercial paper, municipals, certificates of deposit and notes. All of the securities were short term in nature and were rated A1/P1 or better. These purchases were funded primarily through various available stabilization facilities.  

The Company does not consolidate these money market and liquidity funds because the Company does not have a controlling financial interest in the funds nor is it the primary beneficiary of such funds. The Company also does not have a significant variable interest in such funds.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. Asset Management principal transaction investment revenues consist primarily of gains and losses on the Company’s investments.  

Principal transaction net investment losses aggregating $1,661 million were recognized in fiscal 2008 as compared with gains of $1,774 million in fiscal 2007. The results in fiscal 2008 were primarily related to net investment losses associated with the Company’s merchant banking business, including real estate and private equity investments, and losses associated with certain investments for the benefit of the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Included in the net investment losses in fiscal 2008 were writedowns of approximately $250 million on Crescent prior to its consolidation. See “Other Matters—Real Estate-Related Positions—Real Estate Investor Funds” herein for further discussion. The results in fiscal 2007 were primarily driven by investments associated with the Company’s real estate products and private equity portfolio, including employee deferred compensation plans and co-investment plans.  

Real estate and private equity investments generally are held for long-term appreciation. It is not possible to determine when the Company will realize the value of such investments since, among other factors, such investments generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Moreover, estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset Management, distribution and administration fees include revenues generated from the management and supervision of assets, performance-based fees relating to certain funds, and separately managed accounts and fees relating to the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds. Asset Management fees arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 16% in fiscal 2008 compared with an increase of 37% in fiscal 2007. The decrease in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to lower performance fees from alternative investment products, lower distribution fees, and lower fund management and administration fees, reflecting a decrease in average assets under management. Fiscal 2008 also reflected lower shareholder servicing fees related to the modification of certain sub-transfer agent agreements, which resulted in an offsetting reduction to professional services expense. The increase in fiscal 2007 was due to higher fund management and administration fees resulting from an increase in assets under management and a more favorable asset mix. The increase was also due to higher performance fees from the alternatives business.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Asset Management’s year-end and average assets under management or supervision were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation.  

 (2) Amounts represent Asset Management’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.  

 (3) The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as hedge funds, funds of hedge funds and funds of private equity funds.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Activity in Asset Management’s assets under management or supervision during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Prior period information has been reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation.  

 (2) Amount represents Asset Management’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority interest.  

Net flows in fiscal 2008 were primarily associated with negative outflows from Van Kampen and Morgan Stanley Retail and Intermediary products and institutional money markets.  

Other. Other revenues increased 517% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to the revenues associated with Crescent. See “Real Estate-Related Positions—Real Estate Investor Funds—Crescent” herein for further discussion. The increase in fiscal 2008 also included Asset Management’s share ($74 million) of the Company’s repurchase of debt (see “Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations—Morgan Stanley Debt” herein for further discussion) and higher revenues associated with Lansdowne Partners (“Lansdowne”), a London-based investment manager in which the Company has a minority interest. Other revenues increased 188% in fiscal 2007, primarily due to revenues associated with Lansdowne and Avenue Capital Group, a New York-based investment manager, which the Company acquired minority stakes in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  

Non-Interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses decreased 23% in fiscal 2008, primarily reflecting a decrease in compensation and benefits expense, partially offset by higher operating costs and an impairment charge of $243 million associated with Crescent. Compensation and benefits expense decreased 53% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs reflecting lower net revenues and losses associated with principal investments for the benefit of the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The decrease in fiscal 2008 was partially offset by severance-related expenses of $97 million. Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 27%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 16%, primarily due to higher costs related to increased occupancy usage compared with fiscal 2007. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees decreased 9%, primarily due to lower commission expenses. Professional services expense decreased 20%, primarily due to lower sub-advisory fees and sub-transfer agent fees, partially offset by an increase in consulting and legal fees. Other expenses increased 412%, primarily due to Crescent operating costs and impairment charges of $268 million, including the $243 million noted above.  

61  

Table of Contents 

Non-interest expenses increased 55% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting an increase in compensation and benefits expense. Compensation and benefits expense increased 81% in fiscal 2007, primarily reflecting higher incentive-based compensation accruals due to higher net revenues. The increase in fiscal 2007 was also due to expenses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans, partially offset by Asset Management’s share ($20 million) of the incremental compensation expense related to equity awards to retirement-eligible employees that was recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Excluding compensation and benefits expense, non-interest expenses increased 24%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 29%, primarily due to higher rental costs associated with business growth. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 10%, primarily due to increased fee sharing, increased assets under management and higher commission expenses associated with the launching of new products. These increases were offset by a decrease in the deferred commission amortization. Information processing and communications expense increased 21%, primarily due to higher licensing fees associated with the acquisition of FrontPoint Partners (“FrontPoint”). Professional services expense increased 47%, primarily due to higher sub-advisory fees related to the acquisition of FrontPoint. Other expenses increased 47%, primarily due to an insurance reimbursement received in fiscal 2006 related to certain legal matters and an increase in other miscellaneous expenses.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Other Matters.  

The following matters are discussed in the Company’s notes to the consolidated financial statements. For further information on these matters, please see the applicable note:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Real Estate-Related Positions.   

Overview. The Company has real estate exposure(1) to:  

   •    non-subprime residential mortgages, a category which includes prime, Alt-A, European and Asian residential mortgage loans, residential mortgage-backed securities bonds (“RMBS”) and derivatives referencing such mortgages or mortgage-backed securities;  

   •    commercial whole loans, commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) and related derivatives;  

63  

Table of Contents 

   •    U.S. subprime mortgage-related trading positions consisting of U.S. asset-backed securities (“ABS”), collateralized debt obligation (“CDO”) securities, investments in subprime loans and derivatives referencing subprime mortgages or subprime mortgage-backed securities; and  

   •    real estate properties and real estate investor funds.  

 (1) Subprime mortgages are loans secured by real property made to a borrower (or borrowers) with a diminished or impaired credit rating or with a limited credit history. A borrower’s credit history is reflected in his credit report and routinely converted into a numerical credit score often referred to as a Fair Isaac Corporation (or “FICO”) score. Generally, a loan made to a borrower with a low FICO score or other credit score has historically been considered subprime. Loans to borrowers with higher FICO scores are typically considered prime or A1t-A, but may be subprime if the loan exhibits other high-risk factors.  

   The Company exposures include interests in and derivatives with CDOs. CDOs provide credit risk exposure to a portfolio of securities (“cash CDOs”) or a reference portfolio of securities (“synthetic CDOs”). The underlying or reference portfolios may consist of ABS, RMBS, CMBS or other securities. The CDOs to which the Company has exposure were primarily structured and underwritten by third parties, although the Company also structured and underwrote CDOs for which it received structuring and/or distribution fees, and from time to time retained interests in such CDOs.  

The Company’s interests in mortgage-related positions are carried at fair value with changes recognized in earnings. The valuation methodology used for these instruments incorporates a variety of inputs, including prices observed from the execution of a limited number of trades in the marketplace; ABX, CMBX and similar indices that track the performance of a series of credit default swaps based on subprime residential or commercial mortgages; and other market information, including data on remittances received and updated cumulative loss data on the underlying mortgages. The fair value of such positions experienced significant declines in the second half of fiscal 2007 and throughout fiscal 2008 as a result of a deterioration of value in the benchmark instruments as well as market developments. The value of these positions remains subject to mark-to-market volatility. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a description regarding valuation of these instruments.  

The Company’s non-subprime residential, commercial and U.S. subprime mortgage-related exposures have each been reduced in fiscal 2008 through writedowns, sales, paydowns, and hedging and trading activities, whereby the Company purchased protection including credit default, index and total rate-of-return swap positions.  

The Company continues to monitor its real estate-related and lending-related positions in order to manage its exposures to these markets and businesses. As market conditions continue to evolve, the fair value of these positions could further deteriorate.  

The following tables provide a summary of the Company’s non-subprime residential, commercial and U.S. subprime mortgage-related exposures (excluding amounts related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company’s Subsidiary Banks) as of and for the fiscal years ended November 30, 2008 and 2007, as well as the Company’s Net Exposure. The Company utilizes various methods of evaluating risk in its trading and other portfolios, including monitoring its Net Exposure. Net Exposure is defined as potential loss to the Company over a period of time in an event of 100% default of the referenced loan, assuming zero recovery. Positive net exposure amounts indicate potential loss (long position) in a default scenario. Negative net exposure amounts indicate potential gain (short position) in a default scenario. Net Exposure does not take into consideration the risk of counterparty default such that actual losses could exceed the amount of Net Exposure. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein for a further description of how credit risk is monitored. For a further discussion of the Company’s risk management policies and procedures see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

64  

Table of Contents 

Non-subprime Residential Mortgage-Related Exposures.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Statement of financial condition amounts are presented on a net asset/liability basis and do not take into account any netting of cash collateral against these positions. As of November 30, 2008, the $8.0 billion is reflected in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $8.3 billion and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $0.3 billion. As of November 30, 2007, the $16.5 billion is reflected in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition as Financial instruments owned of $16.5 billion.  

 (2) At November 30, 2008, gross and net exposure on non-subprime residential loans and bonds was split 53% Alt-A/near prime and 47% prime underlying collateral. Gross and net exposure of U.S. Alt-A residential loans and bonds was $1.6 billion at November 30, 2008.  

 (3) Amounts represent both hedges and directional positioning. At November 30, 2008, these positions included credit default and super senior CDO swaps.  

 (4) Amounts represent assets recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities” (“SFAS No. 140”), and Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 46, as revised (“FIN 46R”), “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,” that function as collateral for an offsetting amount of non-recourse debt to third parties. Any retained interests in these transactions are reflected in RMBS bonds.  

 (5) Regional distribution of Net Exposure was 49% U.S., 39% Europe and 12% Asia at November 30, 2008.  

Commercial Mortgage-Related Exposures.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Statement of financial condition amounts are presented on a net asset/liability basis and do not take into account any netting of cash collateral against these positions. As of November 30, 2008, the $17.0 billion is reflected in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $24.1 billion and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $7.1 billion. As of November 30, 2007, the $31.5 billion is reflected in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $33.2 billion and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $1.7 billion.  

 (2) Amounts include unfunded lending commitments.  

 (3) Composition of commercial loans was 68% senior and 32% mezzanine at November 30, 2008.  

 (4) Amounts represent both hedges and directional positioning. At November 30, 2008, amounts include credit default, super senior CDOs, index and total rate-of-return swaps.  

 (5) Amounts represent assets recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140 and FIN 46R that function as collateral for an offsetting amount of non-recourse debt to third parties. Any retained interests in these transactions are reflected in CMBS bonds.  

 (6) Regional distribution of Net Exposure of the long positions (i.e., CMBS bonds, commercial loans and warehouse lines) was 62% U.S., 17% Europe and 21% Asia at November 30, 2008.  

65  

Table of Contents 

U.S. Subprime Mortgage-Related Exposures.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Statement of financial condition amounts are presented on a net asset/liability basis and do not take into account any netting of cash collateral against these positions. In addition, these amounts reflect counterparty netting to the extent that there are positions with the same counterparty that are subprime-related; they do not reflect any counterparty netting to the extent that there are positions with the same counterparty that are not subprime related. As of November 30, 2008, the $9.3 billion is reflected in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $13.9 billion and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $4.6 billion. As of November 30, 2007, the $6.1 billion is reflected in the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition as follows: Financial instruments owned of $15.3 billion and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased of $9.2 billion.  

 (2) CDO squared refers to CDOs where the collateral is comprised entirely of other CDO securities.  

 (3) In determining the fair value of the Company’s ABS super senior CDO-related exposures the Company took into consideration prices observed from the execution of a limited number of transactions and data for relevant benchmark instruments in synthetic subprime markets. Deterioration of value in the benchmark instruments as well as market developments have led to significant declines in the estimates of fair value. These declines reflected increased implied losses across this portfolio. At November 30, 2008, these implied loss levels are consistent with losses in the range between 22% – 48% implied by the ABX indices. These cumulative loss levels, at a severity rate of 62%, imply defaults in the range of 79% – 95% for 2005 and 2006 outstanding mortgages.  

66  

Table of Contents 

Subsidiary Banks.  

The securities portfolios of the Subsidiary Banks include certain subprime-related securities. The portfolios contain no subprime whole loans, subprime residuals or CDOs.  

At November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, the securities portfolios totaled $7.2 billion and $9.9 billion, respectively, consisting primarily of investment grade-rated ABS bonds and residential mortgage-backed securities. Of these total amounts, $2.7 billion and $5.5 billion were subprime mortgage-related securities as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively.  

Real Estate Investments.  

Real Estate Investor Funds. The Company acts as the general partner for various real estate funds and also invests in certain of these funds as a limited partner.  

Crescent. An affiliated entity of the Company acquired an investment in Crescent in August 2007. The assets of Crescent primarily include office buildings, investments in resorts and residential developments in select markets across the U.S. (the “Crescent properties”). The Company had originally intended to include the Crescent properties in an investor fund but at the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company modified its investment strategy based on various factors, including current market conditions, valuation, size of the investment and timing of the fund, and determined to operate Crescent and risk manage the Crescent properties.  

As a result, the Company consolidated Crescent’s assets and liabilities of approximately $4.7 billion and $3.9 billion, respectively, as of May 31, 2008. The Company will continue to evaluate the Crescent properties and position them for sale as opportunities arise.  

Prior to consolidating the assets and liabilities of Crescent, the Company recorded writedowns on its investment of approximately $250 million. These writedowns are included in the Asset Management business segment and are reflected in Principal transactions—investments in the consolidated statement of income for fiscal 2008. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $243 million, which is reflected in Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income.  

Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2008, the consolidated operating results of Crescent are included in the Asset Management business segment. Fiscal 2008 included net revenues of $37 million, non-interest expenses of $568 million and a loss before income taxes of $531 million related to Crescent.  

Real Estate Investments. The Company’s real estate investments are shown below by business group, property type and geographic region. Such amounts exclude investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

67  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Amounts are shown gross of any non-recourse debt provided by external lenders which reduces the Company’s exposures.  

 (2) Real estate bridge financing in fiscal 2007 primarily included amounts related to Crescent.  

Stock-Based Compensation.  

The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS No. 123R”). For further information on SFAS No. 123R, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Additionally, based on interpretive guidance related to SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company changed its accounting policy for expensing the cost of anticipated year-end equity awards that are granted to retirement eligible employees in the first quarter of the following year. Effective December 1, 2005, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the current fiscal year. As such, the Company accrued the estimated cost of fiscal 2008 year-end awards granted to retirement-eligible employees over the 2008 fiscal year rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant (which occurred in December 2008).  

As a result, fiscal 2006 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs:  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2003 year-end awards;  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2004 year-end awards;  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;  

   •    the full cost of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2005); and  

   •    the full cost of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2006).  

Fiscal 2007 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs:  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2004 year-end awards;  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees; and  

   •    the full cost of fiscal 2007 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2007).  

68  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal 2008 stock-based compensation expense primarily included the following costs:  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2005 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2006 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees;  

   •    amortization of fiscal 2007 year-end awards to non-retirement eligible employees; and  

   •    the full cost of fiscal 2008 year-end awards to retirement eligible employees (made in December 2008).  

Fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 year-end awards are generally amortized over three and four years, while subsequent year-end awards are generally amortized over two and three years.  

Coleman Litigation.  

Effective November 30, 2007, the Company reversed a $360 million reserve previously established under SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” (“SFAS No. 5”) for a claim filed against the Company by Coleman.  

Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.  

Contributions. The Company made contributions of $326 million and $131 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from operations.  

The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded plans by considering several factors, including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The Company’s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax regulations (for example, in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or “ERISA”). As of November 30, 2008, there were no minimum required ERISA contributions for the Company’s U.S. pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Liabilities for benefits payable under certain postretirement and unfunded supplementary plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries.  

Expense. The Company recognizes the compensation cost of an employee’s pension benefits (including prior-service cost) over the employee’s estimated service period. This process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In accordance with the adoption of SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” (“SFAS No. 158”), the measurement date to determine plan assets, liabilities and expense was changed from September 30 to November 30. Net periodic pension expense was $134 million, $145 million and $160 million, while net periodic postretirement expense was $17 million, $14 million and $18 million for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively.  

See Notes 2 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the Company’s defined benefit pension and postretirement plans including the adoption of SFAS No. 158.  

69  

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies.  

The Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), the following involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.  

Fair Value.  

Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value. A significant number of the Company’s financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include but are not limited to:  

   •    Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased;  

   •    Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral;  

   •    Certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;  

   •    Certain Deposits;  

   •    Other secured financings; and  

   •    Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes and certain junior subordinated debentures.  

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  

In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches. A hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the observable inputs be used when available. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein Level 1 uses observable prices in active markets, and Level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable inputs and therefore require the greatest use of judgment. In periods of market dislocation, such as those experienced in fiscal 2008, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. In addition, a continued downturn in market conditions could lead to further declines in the valuation of many instruments. For further information on the fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 hierarchy, and related valuation techniques, see Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements.  

The Company’s Level 3 assets before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy were $86.2 billion and $73.7 billion as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively, and represented approximately 27% as of November 30, 2008 and 15% as of November 30, 2007 of the assets measured at fair value (13% and 7% of total assets as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively). Level 3 liabilities before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy were $28.4 billion and $19.5 billion as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007, respectively, and represented approximately 16% and 7%, respectively, of the Company’s liabilities measured at fair value.  

During fiscal 2008, the Company reclassified approximately $17.3 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, commercial whole loans and corporate loans. The reclassifications were due to a reduction in the volume of recently executed transactions and market price quotations for these instruments, or a lack of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the fair value measurement of these instruments. These unobservable inputs include, depending upon the position, assumptions to establish   

70  

Table of Contents 

 comparability to bonds, loans or swaps with observable price/spread levels, default recovery rates, forecasted credit losses and prepayment rates. The Company reclassified approximately $7.5 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 3 to Level 2. These reclassifications primarily related to ABS and corporate loans as some liquidity re-entered the market for these specific positions, and external prices and spread inputs for these instruments became observable.  

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis. Certain of the Company’s assets were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. These assets include certain goodwill, certain intangible assets, certain premises and equipment, certain equity method investments, certain loans and certain real estate investments that were impaired during fiscal 2008, primarily in the fourth quarter, and written down to their fair value. In addition, a continued downturn in market conditions could result in additional impairment charges in future periods.  

For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs, by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.  

For further information on financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis, see Note 2 and Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Fair Value Control Processes. The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to assure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. These control processes include reviews of the pricing model’s theoretical soundness and appropriateness by Company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks. Additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the Financial Control, Market Risk and Credit Risk Departments participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. Where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model.  

Consistent with market practice, the Company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral (“margining”) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. Through this margining process, one party or both parties to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. This sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the Company’s recorded fair value for the relevant OTC derivative products. For certain OTC derivative products, the Company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. This information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these OTC derivative products. For more information regarding the Company’s risk management practices, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

Legal, Regulatory and Tax Contingencies.  

In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.  

71  

Table of Contents 

The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company’s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  

Reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis and represent an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case, prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, and the opinions and views of internal and external legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be.  

The Company is subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and subsequent years’ examinations, and tax reserves are established as appropriate.  

The Company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated in accordance with SFAS No. 5. The Company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of tax audits in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”. Once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded reserves, if any.  

See Notes 9 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on legal proceedings and tax examinations.  

Special Purpose Entities and Variable Interest Entities. 

The Company’s involvement with special purpose entities (“SPEs”) consists primarily of the following:  

   •    Transferring financial assets into SPEs;  

   •    Acting as an underwriter of beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles;  

   •    Holding one or more classes of securities issued by, or making loans to or investments in SPEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets;  

   •    Purchasing and selling (in both a market-making and a proprietary-trading capacity) securities issued by SPEs/VIEs, whether such vehicles are sponsored by the Company or not;  

   •    Entering into derivative transactions with SPEs (whether or not sponsored by the Company);  

   •    Providing warehouse financing to CDOs and CLOs;  

   •    Entering into derivative agreements with non-SPEs whose value is derived from securities issued by SPEs;  

72  

Table of Contents 

   •    Servicing assets held by SPEs or holding servicing rights related to assets held by SPEs that are serviced by others under subservicing arrangements;  

   •    Serving as an asset manager to various investment funds that may invest in securities that are backed, in whole or in part, by SPEs; and  

   •    Structuring and/or investing in other structured transactions designed to provide enhanced, tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.  

The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial instruments. The Company’s involvement with SPEs is discussed further in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.  

In most cases, these SPEs are deemed for accounting purposes to be variable interest entities (“VIEs”). Unless a VIE is determined to be a QSPE (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements), the Company is required to perform an analysis of each VIE at the date upon which the Company becomes involved with it to determine whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE, in which case the Company must consolidate the VIE. QSPEs are not consolidated. In addition, the Company serves as an investment advisor to numerous unconsolidated money market and other funds.  

The Company reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon the occurrence of certain reconsideration events. If the Company’s initial assessment results in a determination that it is not the primary beneficiary of a VIE, then the Company reassesses this determination upon the occurrence of:  

   •    Changes to the VIE’s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates the obligation to absorb the expected losses or the right to receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the current primary beneficiary and the other variable interest holders, including the Company.  

   •    Acquisition by the Company of additional variable interests in the VIE.  

If the Company’s initial assessment results in a determination that it is the primary beneficiary, then the Company reassesses this determination upon the occurrence of:  

   •    Changes to the VIE’s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocates the obligation to absorb the expected losses or the right to receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the current primary beneficiary and the other variable interest holders, including the Company.  

   •    A sale or disposition by the Company of all or part of its variable interests in the VIE to parties unrelated to the Company.  

   •    The issuance of new variable interests by the VIE to parties unrelated to the Company.  

The determination of whether an SPE meets the accounting requirements of a QSPE requires significant judgment, particularly in evaluating whether the permitted activities of the SPE are significantly limited and in determining whether derivatives held by the SPE are passive and nonexcessive. In addition, the analysis involved in determining whether an entity is a VIE, and in determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE, requires significant judgment (see Notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements).  

73  

Table of Contents 

Liquidity and Capital Resources.  

The Company’s senior management establishes the liquidity and capital policies of the Company. Through various risk and control committees, the Company’s senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company’s asset and liability position. The Company’s Treasury Department and other control groups, assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company’s business activities have on its consolidated statements of financial condition, liquidity and capital structure.  

Global market and economic conditions have been disrupted and volatile, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, volatility reached unprecedented levels. In particular, the Company’s cost and availability of funding have been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 the Company became a financial holding company under the BHC Act and gained additional access to various government lending programs and facilities including the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (“CPFF”), the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”), the Term Securities Lending Facility (“TSLF”) and the Primary Dealer Credit Facility (“PDCF”) (for a further discussion about these lending programs and facilities, see “Funding Management Policies-Secured Financing” herein). During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company further diversified its funding profile and increased its liquidity position by accessing these programs and engaging in a reduction of balance sheet intensive businesses within the Institutional Securities business segment.  

The Balance Sheet.  

The Company actively monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet. A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in managing the size of its balance sheet.  

The Company’s total assets decreased to $658,812 million at November 30, 2008, from $1,045,409 million at November 30, 2007. The decrease was primarily due to decreases in securities borrowed, financial instruments owned—corporate and other debt and corporate equities, securities received as collateral, federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell and receivables from customers, partially offset by increases in interest bearing deposits with banks. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company increased its focus on rescaling the size of its balance sheet intensive businesses including prime brokerage and select proprietary trading strategies.  

Within the sales and trading related assets and liabilities are transactions attributable to securities financing activities. As of November 30, 2008, securities financing assets and liabilities were $251 billion and $238 billion, respectively. Securities financing transactions include repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, securities received as collateral and obligation to return securities received, customer receivables/payables and related segregated customer cash.  

Securities financing assets and liabilities also include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. Matched book transactions accommodate customers, as well as obtain securities for the settlement and financing of inventory positions. The customer receivable portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated, according to regulatory requirements. The customer payable portion of the securities financing transactions primarily includes customer payables to the Company’s prime brokerage clients. The Company’s risk exposure on these transactions is mitigated by collateral maintenance policies that limit the Company’s credit exposure to customers. Included within securities financing assets was $5 billion recorded under certain provisions of SFAS No. 140 which represented equal and offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions.  

74  

Table of Contents 

The Company uses the balance sheet leverage ratio, the Tier 1 leverage ratio and risk based capital ratios (see “Regulatory Requirements” herein) as indicators of capital adequacy when viewed in the context of the Company’s overall liquidity and capital policies. The Company utilizes the leverage ratio when evaluating leverage trends. The balance sheet leverage ratio reflects the deduction from shareholders’ equity of the amount of equity used to support goodwill and intangible assets (as the Company does not view this amount of equity as available to support its risk capital needs). In addition, the Company views junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts as a component of its capital base given the inherent characteristics of the securities including their long-dated nature, the Company’s ability to defer coupon interest, and the subordinated nature of the obligations in the capital structure. The Company also receives rating agency equity credit for these securities.  

The following table sets forth the Company’s total assets and leverage ratios as of November 30, 2008 and November 30, 2007 and for the average month-end balances during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible shareholders’ equity.  

Balance Sheet and Funding Activity in Fiscal 2008.  

The Company’s total non-current portion of long-term borrowings, shareholders’ equity and deposits form a stable source of long-term funding for the Company.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During fiscal 2008, the Company issued notes with a carrying value at year-end aggregating approximately $45 billion, including non-U.S. dollar currency notes aggregating approximately $13 billion. In connection with the note issuances, the Company generally enters into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term London Interbank Offered Rates trading levels. The weighted average maturity of the Company’s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 6.4 years at November 30, 2008 and 5.5 years at November 30, 2007.  

75  

Table of Contents 

As of November 30, 2008, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Company’s senior indebtedness was approximately $156 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries) compared with $207 billion as of November 30, 2007. The decrease in the amount of senior indebtedness was primarily due to maturities and repurchases of senior debt as well as currency revaluations.  

China Investment Corporation Investment.  

In December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units that included contracts to purchase Company common stock to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC for approximately $5,579 million. CIC’s ownership in the Company’s common stock, including the number of shares of common stock to be received by CIC upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts, will be 9.9% or less of the Company’s total shares outstanding based on the total shares that were outstanding on November 30, 2007. CIC is a passive financial investor and has no special rights of ownership nor a role in the management of the Company. A substantial portion of the investment proceeds was treated as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes.  

For a more detailed summary of the Equity Units, including the junior subordinated debentures issued to support trust common and trust preferred securities and the stock purchase contracts, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc.  

On October 13, 2008, the Company issued to MUFG 7,839,209 shares of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series B Preferred Stock”) and 1,160,791 shares of Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock (“Series C Preferred Stock”) for an aggregate purchase price of $9 billion that gave MUFG a 21% ownership interest on a fully-diluted basis at the date of issuance (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). The Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock qualify as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes.  

Capital Purchase Program.  

The Company was part of the initial group of financial institutions participating in the CPP, and on October 26, 2008 entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement—Standard Terms with the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, the Company sold to the U.S. Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of $10 billion, 10 million shares of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of the Company (the “Series D Preferred Stock”) and warrants to purchase up to 65,245,759 shares of common stock of the Company at an exercise price of $22.99 per share (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements).  

The Series D Preferred Stock qualifies as Tier 1 capital and ranks senior to the Company’s common shares and pari passu, which is at an equal level in the capital structure, with existing preferred shares, other than preferred shares which by their terms rank junior to any other existing preferred shares. The Series D Preferred Stock pays a compounding cumulative dividend rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and will reset to a rate of 9% per annum after year five. The Series D Preferred Stock is non-voting, other than class voting rights on matters that could adversely affect the Series D Preferred Stock. The Series D Preferred Stock is callable at par after three years. Prior to the end of three years, the Series D Preferred Stock may be redeemed with the proceeds from one or more qualified equity offerings of any Tier 1 perpetual preferred or common stock of at least $250 million. The U.S. Treasury may also transfer the Series D Preferred Stock to a third party at any time. The number of shares to be delivered upon settlement of the warrant will be reduced by 50% if the Company receives aggregate gross proceeds of at least 100% of the aggregate Liquidation Preference of the Series D Preferred Stock ($10 billion) from one or more qualified equity offerings prior to December 31, 2009.  

Equity Capital Management Policies.  

The Company’s senior management views equity capital as an important source of financial strength. The Company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory   

76  

Table of Contents 

 requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries’ equity.  

As of November 30, 2008, the Company’s equity capital (which includes shareholders’ equity and junior subordinated debentures issued to capital trusts) was $61,097 million, an increase of $24,952 million from November 30, 2007, primarily due to the CIC, MUFG and CPP investments and growth in retained earnings.  

In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company’s outstanding common stock. This share repurchase authorization replaced the Company’s previous repurchase authorizations with one repurchase program for capital management purposes that will consider, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. As of November 30, 2008, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization. During fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased $711 million of its common stock as part of its capital management share repurchase program (see also “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities,” in Part II, Item 5). As a condition under the CPP, the Company’s share repurchases are currently limited to purchases in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan, consistent with past practices, including purchases to offset share dilution in connection with any such plans. This restriction is effective until October 2011 or until the U.S. Treasury no longer owns any of the Company’s preferred shares issued under the CPP.  

The Board of Directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. In December 2008, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.27. The Company also announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $348.35 per share of Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.34835); a quarterly dividend of $25.56 per share of perpetual Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B; a quarterly dividend of $25.56 per share of perpetual Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C; and a quarterly dividend of $10.69 per share of perpetual Fixed Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D. As part of its participation in the CPP, the Company agreed that it would not, without the U.S. Treasury’s consent, increase the current dividend on its common stock as long as any preferred stock issued under the CPP remains outstanding until the third anniversary of the investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties.  

In addition, pursuant to the terms of the CPP investment, the Company is prohibited from paying any dividend with respect to shares of common stock, other junior securities or preferred stock ranking pari passu with the Series D Preferred Stock or repurchasing or redeeming any shares of the Company’s common shares, other junior securities or preferred stock ranking pari passu with the Series D Preferred Stock in any quarter unless all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on the Series D Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods (including the latest completed dividend period), subject to certain limited exceptions.  

Economic Capital.  

The Company’s economic capital framework estimates the amount of equity capital required to support the businesses over a wide range of market environments while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor requirements. The framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques.  

Economic capital is assigned to each business segment and sub-allocated to product lines. Each business segment is capitalized as if it were an independent operating entity. This process is intended to align equity capital with the risks in each business in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis (such as return on equity and shareholder value added).  

77  

Table of Contents 

Economic capital is based on regulatory capital usage plus additional capital for stress losses. The Company assesses stress loss capital across various dimensions of market, credit, business and operational risks. Economic capital requirements are met by regulatory Tier 1 capital. For a further discussion of the Company’s Tier 1 capital see “Regulatory Requirements” herein. The difference between the Company’s Tier 1 capital and aggregate economic capital requirements denotes the Company’s unallocated capital position.  

The following table presents the Company’s allocated average Tier 1 capital (“economic capital”) and average common equity for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Tier 1 capital allocated to the Institutional Securities business segment increased compared with fiscal 2007 driven by growth in credit risk exposure partially offset by the incorporation of market risk capital model enhancements. Tier 1 capital and common equity allocated to Asset Management increased primarily due to consolidation of Crescent on the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition. See “Other Matters—Real Estate-Related Positions—Real Estate Investments—Crescent” herein for further discussion. Additionally, the proportion of common equity allocated to the operating segments decreased due to the issuance of hybrid capital. See “China Investment Corporation Investment,” “Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc.” and “Capital Purchase Program” herein.  

The Company generally uses available unallocated capital for organic growth, additional acquisitions and other capital needs, including repurchases of common stock where permitted under the terms of the CPP while maintaining adequate capital ratios. For a discussion of risk-based capital ratios, see “Regulatory Requirements” herein.  

Liquidity and Funding Management Policies.  

The primary goal of the Company’s liquidity management and funding activities is to ensure adequate funding over a wide range of market environments. Given the mix of the Company’s business activities, funding requirements are fulfilled through a diversified range of secured and unsecured financing.  

The Company’s liquidity and funding risk management policies are designed to mitigate the potential risk that the Company may be unable to access adequate financing to service its financial obligations without material franchise or business impact. The key objectives of the liquidity and funding risk management framework are to support the successful execution of the Company’s business strategies while ensuring sufficient liquidity through the business cycle and during periods of stressed market conditions.  

Liquidity Management Policies.  

The principal elements of the Company’s liquidity management framework are the Contingency Funding Plan (“CFP”) and Liquidity Reserves. Comprehensive financing guidelines (secured funding, long-term funding strategy, surplus capacity, diversification and staggered maturities) support the Company’s target liquidity profile.  

78  

Table of Contents 

Contingency Funding Plan. The Contingency Funding Plan is the Company’s primary liquidity risk management tool. The CFP models a potential, prolonged liquidity contraction over a one-year time period and sets forth a course of action to effectively manage a liquidity event. The CFP and liquidity risk exposures are evaluated on an on-going basis and reported to the Firm Risk Committee and other appropriate risk committees.  

The Company’s CFP model is designed to be dynamic and scenarios incorporate a wide range of potential cash outflows during a liquidity stress event, including, but not limited to, the following: (i) repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year and no incremental unsecured debt issuance; (ii) maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance and replacement with cash collateral; (iii) return of unsecured securities borrowed and any cash raised against these securities; (iv) additional collateral that would be required by counterparties in the event of a two-notch long-term credit ratings downgrade; (v) higher haircuts on or lower availability of secured funding, similar to a stressed cash capital approach; (vi) client cash withdrawals; (vii) drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; and (viii) discretionary unsecured debt buybacks.  

The CFP is produced on a parent and major subsidiary level to capture specific cash requirements and cash availability at various legal entities. The CFP assumes that the parent company does not have access to cash that may be held at certain subsidiaries due to regulatory, legal or tax constraints. In addition, the CFP assumes that the parent company does not draw down on its committed credit facilities.  

Liquidity Reserves. The Company seeks to maintain target liquidity reserves that are sized to cover daily funding needs and meet strategic liquidity targets as outlined in the CFP. These liquidity reserves are held in the form of cash deposits with banks and pools of unencumbered securities. The parent company liquidity reserve is managed globally and consists of overnight cash deposits and unencumbered U.S. and European government bonds and other high-quality collateral. All of the parent securities are central bank eligible. The Company believes that diversifying the form in which its liquidity reserves (cash and securities) are maintained enhances its ability to quickly and efficiently source funding in a stressed environment. The Company’s funding requirements and target liquidity reserves may vary based on changes to the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors.  

On November 30, 2008, the parent liquidity reserve was $61 billion and the total Company liquidity reserve was $130 billion. The average parent liquidity reserve was $69 billion and the average total Company liquidity reserve was $138 billion for fiscal 2008.  

Committed Credit Facilities.  

The Company maintains a $5 billion senior revolving credit agreement with a group of banks to support general liquidity needs, which consists of three separate tranches: a U.S. dollar tranche; a Japanese yen tranche; and a multicurrency tranche available in both euro and the British pound, all of which exist with the Company as borrower. At November 30, 2008, no borrowings were outstanding under the credit agreement. The credit agreement expires on April 16, 2009 and the Company does not expect to renew this facility.  

Capital Covenants.  

In October 2006 and April 2007, the Company executed replacement capital covenants in connection with offerings by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII and Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (the “Capital Securities”). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenants, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the replacement capital covenants, see the Company’s Current Reports on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006 and April 26, 2007.  

79  

Table of Contents 

Funding Management Policies.  

The Company’s funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the Company’s operations. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of secured and unsecured funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the Company’s liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. Maturities of financings are designed to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period.  

The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources may include the Company’s equity capital, long-term debt, repurchase agreements, securities lending, deposits, commercial paper, letters of credit and lines of credit. The Company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products in the U.S., European and Asian markets, targeting global investors and currencies such as the U.S. dollar, Euro, British pound, Australian dollar and Japanese yen.  

Secured Financing. A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in financing these assets with collateralized borrowings.  

The Company’s goal is to achieve an optimal mix of secured and unsecured funding through appropriate use of collateralized borrowings. The Institutional Securities business segment emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is more typically subject to disruption during periods of financial stress. As part of this effort, the Institutional Securities business segment continually seeks to expand its global secured borrowing capacity.  

In addition, the Company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains funded and unfunded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.  

On March 11, 2008, the Fed announced an expansion of its securities lending program to promote liquidity in the financing markets for Treasury securities and other collateral. Under the TSLF, the Fed will lend up to $200 billion of Treasury securities to primary dealers secured for a term of 28 days (rather than overnight, as in the existing program) by a pledge of other securities, including federal agency debt, federal agency residential-mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”), and non-agency AAA/Aaa-rated private-label residential MBS. In September 2008, the Fed changed the TSLF from a monthly to a weekly competitive auction.  

On March 16, 2008, the Fed announced that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the “New York Fed”) has been granted the authority to establish a PDCF. The PDCF provides overnight funding to primary dealers in exchange for a specified range of collateral. The Company may at times use the PDCF as an additional source of secured funding for its regular business operations. In September 2008, the New York Fed expanded the schedule of collateral acceptable under the PDCF.  

In September 2008, the Company became a financial holding company under the BHC Act (see “Supervision and Regulation—Financial Holding Company” in Part I). Additionally, the Fed authorized the New York Fed to extend credit to the Company’s U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary against all types of collateral that may be pledged at the Fed’s Primary Credit Facility (“PCF”) for depository institutions or at the PDCF. The Fed also authorized the New York Fed to extend credit to the Company’s London-based broker-dealer subsidiary against collateral that would be eligible to be pledged at the PDCF.  

Unsecured Financing. The Company views long-term debt and deposits as stable sources of funding for core inventories and illiquid assets. Securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate   

80  

Table of Contents 

 long-term debt swapped to a floating rate and deposits. The Company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management, reduce borrowing costs and hedge interest rate risk (see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. In October 2008, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury invoked the systemic risk exception of the FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 and the FDIC announced the TLGP.  

The TLGP provides a guarantee, through the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012, of certain senior unsecured debt issued by participating Eligible Entities (including the Company) between October 14, 2008 and June 30, 2009. The maximum amount of FDIC-guaranteed debt a participating Eligible Entity (including the Company) may have outstanding is 125% of the entity’s senior unsecured debt that was outstanding as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature on or before June 30, 2009. The ability of Eligible Entities (including the Company) to issue guaranteed debt under this program is scheduled to expire on June 30, 2009. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $16.2 billion of senior unsecured debt outstanding under the TLGP.  

Short-Term Borrowings. The Company’s unsecured short-term borrowings may consist of commercial paper, bank loans, bank notes and structured notes with maturities of twelve months or less at issuance.  

The table below summarizes the Company’s short-term unsecured borrowings:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Commercial Paper Funding Facility. On October 7, 2008, the Fed announced the creation of the CPFF, a facility that complements the Fed’s existing credit facilities to help provide liquidity to term funding markets. The CPFF provides a liquidity backstop to U.S. issuers of commercial paper through a special purpose vehicle that purchases three-month unsecured and asset-backed commercial paper directly from eligible issuers. The CPFF is intended to improve liquidity in short-term funding markets and thereby increase the availability of credit for businesses and households. The CPFF finances only highly rated, U.S. dollar-denominated, three-month commercial paper. On October 27, 2008, the CPFF began funding purchases of commercial paper. The Company has been participating in the CPFF program.  

Deposits. The Company’s bank subsidiaries’ primary source of funding includes bank deposit sweeps, federal funds purchased, certificates of deposit, money market deposit accounts, commercial paper and Federal Home Loan Bank advances.  

Deposits were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Deposits increased over the past year as consistent with the Company’s ongoing strategy to enhance its stable funding profile.  

81  

Table of Contents 

On October 3, 2008, under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the FDIC temporarily raised the basic limit on federal deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. This increased coverage lasts through December 31, 2009 and is in effect for Morgan Stanley’s two U.S. depository institutions.  

Additionally, under the Final Rule implementing the TLGP, the FDIC provides unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2009, for certain transaction accounts at FDIC-insured participating institutions. The Company has elected for its FDIC-insured subsidiaries to participate in the account guarantee of the TLGP.  

Long-Term Borrowings. The Company uses a variety of long-term debt funding sources to generate liquidity, taking into consideration the results of the CFP. In addition, the issuance of long-term debt allows the Company to reduce reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Financing transactions are structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and to maximize investor diversification through sales to global institutional and retail clients. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the Company’s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit. As a result of the significant disruptions in the credit markets, the cost of new financing available to the Company during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 increased significantly.  

During fiscal 2008, the Company’s long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improving its balance sheet strength (evaluated through enhanced capital and liquidity positions). As a result, for fiscal 2008, a principal amount of approximately $45 billion of unsecured debt was issued.  

The Company may from time to time engage in various transactions in the credit markets (including, for example, debt repurchases) which it believes are in the best interests of the Company and its investors. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased $12.1 billion of fixed/floating rate long-term debt.  

The Company’s long-term borrowings included the following components:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Credit Ratings.  

The Company relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of financing generally are dependent on the Company’s short-term and long-term credit ratings. In addition, the Company’s debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. Factors that are important to the determination of the Company’s credit ratings include the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality and business mix.  

In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, the Company may be required to provide additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. As of November 30, 2008, the amount of additional collateral that could be called by counterparties under the terms of collateral agreements in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the Company’s long-term credit rating was approximately $498.3 million. An additional amount of approximately $1,456.2 million could be called in the event of a two-notch downgrade. Of these amounts, $1,013.2 million relates to bilateral arrangements between the Company and other parties where upon   

82  

Table of Contents 

 the downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver incremental collateral to the other. These bilateral downgrade arrangements are a risk management tool used extensively by the Company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded.  

As of January 28, 2009, the Company’s and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.’s senior unsecured ratings were as set forth below. The Company does not intend to disclose any future revisions to, or withdrawals of, these ratings, except in its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements with Unconsolidated Entities.  

The Company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its Institutional Securities business segment.  

Institutional Securities Activities. The Company utilizes SPEs primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $1.2 billion at November 30, 2008, substantially all of which were related to residential mortgage loan, commercial mortgage loan and U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligation securitization transactions. For further information about the Company’s securitization activities, see Notes 2 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements as well as “Critical Accounting Policies” herein.  

The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Guarantees. FASB Interpretation No. 45, “Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others” (“FIN 45”), requires the Company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. FIN 45 defines guarantees as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. FIN 45 also defines guarantees as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity’s failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.  

83  

Table of Contents 

The table below summarizes certain information regarding derivative contracts, financial guarantees to third parties, market value guarantees and liquidity facilities at November 30, 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Fair value amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting.  

 (2) Approximately $2.2 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the “Commitments” table below in primary and secondary lending commitments.  

In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for information on trust preferred securities, indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees, general partner guarantees, securitized asset guarantees and other guarantees.  

Commitments and Contractual Obligations.  

The Company’s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment activities, corporate lending and financing arrangements, mortgage lending and margin lending as of November 30, 2008 are summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) These commitments are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial condition (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).  

 (2) This amount includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $571 million as of November 30, 2008, of which $563 million have maturities of less than one year and $8 million of which have maturities of three to five years.  

84  

Table of Contents 

 (3) The Company enters into forward starting securities purchased under agreements to resell (agreements that have a trade date as of or prior to November 30, 2008 and settle subsequent to year-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations. These agreements primarily settle within three business days and as of November 30, 2008, $45.5 billion of the $46.5 billion settled with three business days.  

 (4) This amount includes binding commitments to enter into margin-lending transactions of $1.0 billion as of November 30, 2008 in connection with the Company’s Institutional Securities business segment.  

For further description of these commitments, see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Part II Item 7A.  

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Contractual obligations at November 30, 2008 include long-term borrowings, operating leases and purchase obligations. The Company’s future cash payments associated with its contractual obligations as of November 30, 2008 are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (2) See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (3) Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, and computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements. Purchase obligations at November 30, 2008 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition. See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements regarding subsequent events.  

Regulatory Requirements.  

In September 2008, the Company became a financial holding company subject to the regulation and oversight of the Fed. In granting financial holding company status, the Fed will evaluate the Company’s compliance with well-capitalized standards prospectively (see “Supervision and Regulation—Financial Holding Company” in Part I). Prior to September 2008, the Company was a consolidated supervised entity as defined by the SEC.  

During fiscal 2008 and as of November 30, 2008, the Company calculated capital requirements on a consolidated basis in accordance with the Basel II Accord as interpreted by the SEC. The Basel II Accord is designed to be a risk-based capital adequacy approach, which allows for the use of internal estimates of risk components to calculate regulatory capital. As of November 30, 2008, the Company was in compliance with Basel II capital requirements with a ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (“RWAs”) of 26.8%. The Company seeks to maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to RWAs of at least 6%. This ratio as of November 30, 2008 was 17.9%.  

In addition to the above ratios, financial holding companies are also subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the Fed. The Company calculated its Tier 1 leverage ratio as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets). The adjusted average total assets are derived using month-end balances for the fiscal quarter. This ratio as of November 30, 2008 was 6.6%.  

85  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents the Company’s Basel II consolidated capital ratios and allowances as of November 30 and August 31, 2008 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total allowable capital is comprised of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital consists predominately of common shareholders’ equity as well as qualifying preferred stock (including cumulative preferred stock issued to the U.S. Department of the Treasury and non-cumulative preferred stock), trust preferred securities mandatorily convertible to common equity and other junior subordinated debt issued to trusts less goodwill (excluding minority ownership), non-servicing intangible assets (excluding mortgage servicing rights), net deferred tax assets (recoverable in excess of one year) and debt valuation adjustment (“DVA”). DVA represents the cumulative change in fair value of certain of the Company’s borrowings (for which the fair value option was elected) that was attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit spreads and is included in retained earnings. For a further discussion of fair value see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Tier 2 capital consists of qualifying subordinated and long-term debt. Long-term debt included in Tier 2 capital has a maturity greater than five years and is limited (together with qualifying subordinated debt) to an amount equal to 50% of Tier 1 capital, until December 1, 2008 when long-term debt no longer is included in Tier 2 capital. The Company’s total capital ratio excluding long-term debt from Tier 2 capital was 19.4% as of November 30, 2008.  

As of November 30, 2008, the Company calculated its RWAs in accordance with the regulatory capital requirements of the SEC which is consistent with guidelines described under the Basel II Accord. RWAs reflect both on and off balance sheet risk of the Company. The risk capital calculations will evolve over time as the Company enhances its risk management methodology and incorporates improvements in modeling techniques while maintaining compliance with the regulatory requirements and interpretations. For March 31, 2009 and future dates, the Company expects to calculate its capital ratios and RWAs in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for bank holding companies adopted by the Fed. These standards are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I.  

86  

Table of Contents 

Market RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other factors. For a further discussion of the Company’s market risks and Value-at-Risk model, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7A herein. Market RWAs incorporate three components: Systematic risk, Specific risk, and Incremental Default risk (“IDR”). Systematic and Specific risk charges are computed using either a Standardized Approach (applying a fixed percentage to the fair value of the assets) or the Company’s Value-at-Risk model. Capital charges related to IDR are calculated using an IDR model that estimates the loss due to sudden default events affecting traded financial instruments at a 99.9% confidence level. In addition, Market RWAs include assets classified as investments for which capital is computed using a Standardized Approach.  

Credit RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations. For a further discussion of the Company’s credit risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein. Credit RWAs are determined using either an Internal Ratings-based (“IRB”) Approach, which reflects the Company’s internal estimate of a borrower or counterparty’s credit worthiness, or a Standardized Approach. A Standardized Approach is used for certain asset categories, including receivables (e.g., fees, interest and other), premises, equipment and software costs, and other assets where a fixed percentage is applied to the fair value of the assets. Credit capital charges related to certain loans, OTC derivative receivable exposures and security financing transactions are computed using an IRB Approach. Within the IRB Approach, future potential credit exposure resulting from derivative receivables is estimated using an internal model and is the most significant contributor to total Credit RWAs. The risk-reducing effect of hedges related to loan and counterparty exposures is excluded from capital calculations.  

Operational risk capital charges are designed to account for the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events and take into account legal risk. RWAs for operational risk are currently calculated under the Basic Indicator Approach in accordance with Basel II. The Company holds capital equal to the average net revenues over the previous three years using a fixed percentage. For a further discussion of operational risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Operational Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

The Company also employs an Economic Capital framework, whereby incremental capital for stress losses is held in addition to capital requirements under Basel II requirements (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Economic Capital” herein).  

Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.  

The Company’s assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the Company’s expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and profitability.  

A significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company’s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows.  

87  

Table of Contents 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.