PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

CORPORATE STRUCTURE, INDUSTRY AND OTHER INFORMATION

Edison International was incorporated on April 20, 1987, under the laws of the State of California for the purpose of becoming the parent holding company of SCE, a California public utility corporation, and subsidiaries that are competitive businesses primarily related to the generation, delivery or use of electricity (the "Competitive Businesses"). As a holding company, Edison International's progress and outlook are dependent on developments at its operating subsidiaries. 

The principal executive offices of Edison International and SCE are located at 2244 Walnut Grove Avenue, P.O. Box 976, Rosemead, California 91770, and the telephone numbers are (626) 302-2222 for Edison International and (626) 302-1212 for SCE.

This is a combined Annual Report on Form 10-K for Edison International and SCE. Edison International and SCE make available at www.edisoninvestor.com: Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after Edison International and SCE electronically file such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Such reports are also available on the SEC's internet website at www.sec.gov. The information contained on, or connected to, the Edison investor website is not incorporated by reference into this report.

Subsidiaries of Edison International 

SCE is an investor-owned public utility primarily engaged in the business of supplying and delivering electricity to an approximately 50,000 square-mile area of southern California. The SCE service area contains a population of nearly 14 million people and SCE serves the population through approximately 5 million customer accounts. In 2013, SCE's total operating revenue of $12.6 billion was derived as follows: 41.6% commercial customers, 40.2% residential customers, 7% agricultural and other customers, 5.5% industrial customers, 5.1% public authorities, and 0.6% resale sales. Sources of energy to serve SCE's customers during 2013 were approximately: 79% purchased power and 21% SCE-owned generation.

Prior to December 17, 2012, Edison International had a competitive power generation segment, the majority of which consisted of its indirectly, wholly-owned subsidiary, EME. EME is a holding company with subsidiaries and affiliates engaged in the business of developing, acquiring, owning or leasing, operating and selling energy and capacity from independent power production facilities. On December 17, 2012 (the "Petition Date"), EME and certain of its wholly-owned subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. As a result of the bankruptcy filing and beginning on the Petition Date, Edison International determined that it no longer retained significant influence over EME and accordingly, EME's results of operations have not been consolidated with those of Edison International. Additionally, EME's results of operations prior to December 17, 2012 and for prior periods, are reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements. For further information regarding the EME bankruptcy, see "Management Overview—EME Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Filing" in the MD&A and "Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 16. Discontinued Operations."

Edison Capital holds energy and infrastructure investments in the form of leveraged leases and partnership interests in affordable housing projects in the United States.

Edison International also has several subsidiaries that have been formed to hold equity interests and engage in businesses in emerging sectors of the electricity industry. To date, the holdings of these subsidiaries are not material for financial reporting purposes. In August 2013, Edison International acquired SoCore Energy, LLC, a distributed solar developer focused on commercial rooftop installations.

3

Electric Power Industry Trends

Multiple factors are converging to put the electric power industry on the cusp of significant change. These factors include: 

•leveling of demand due to decelerating population growth, demand side management of energy and an increase in distributed- or self-generation;

•prioritization by public policymakers of initiatives to reduce carbon emissions and advance competition; 

•increased need for infrastructure replacement and development to accommodate new technologies; and 

•technological and financing innovation that facilitates conservation and self-generation and changes in electricity generation, transmission and distribution.

Edison International has been addressing these changes by focusing SCE on investing in and strengthening its electric grid and driving operational and service excellence to improve system safety, reliability and service while controlling costs and rates. Simultaneously, Edison International is investing in Competitive Businesses to meet the electricity needs of commercial and industrial customers both inside and beyond SCE's service area. Edison International continues to see merit in the ownership and operation of Competitive Businesses as a matter of corporate strategy and is exploring business ventures in a number of areas related to the provision of electric power and infrastructure, including distributed generation, electrification of transportation, water purification, and power management services to the commercial and industrial sector.

Regulation of Edison International as a Holding Company

Edison International and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation. As a public utility holding company, Edison International is subject to the Public Utility Holding Company Act. The Public Utility Holding Company Act primarily obligates Edison International and its utility subsidiaries to provide access to their books and records to the FERC and the CPUC for ratemaking purposes.

Edison International is not a public utility and its capital structure is not regulated by the CPUC. The 1988 CPUC decision authorizing SCE to reorganize into a holding company structure, however, imposed certain obligations on Edison International and its affiliates. These obligations include a requirement that SCE's dividend policy shall continue to be established by SCE's Board of Directors as though SCE were a stand-alone utility company, and that the capital requirements of SCE, as deemed to be necessary to meet SCE's service obligations, shall receive first priority from the Boards of Directors of Edison International and SCE. The CPUC has also promulgated Affiliate Transaction Rules, which, among other requirements, prohibit holding companies from (1) being used as a conduit to provide non-public information to a utility's affiliate and (2) causing or abetting a utility's violation of the rules, including providing preferential treatment to affiliates.

Employees

At December 31, 2013, Edison International and its consolidated subsidiaries had an aggregate of 13,677 full-time employees, 13,599 of which were full-time employees at SCE. 

Approximately 4,000 of SCE's full-time employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with one labor union; the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 47, AFL-CIO ("IBEW"). The IBEW collective bargaining agreements expire on December 31, 2014.

Insurance

Edison International maintains a property and casualty insurance program for itself and its subsidiaries and excess liability insurance covering liabilities to third parties for bodily injury or property damage resulting from operations. These policies are subject to specific retentions, sub-limits and deductibles, which are comparable to those carried by other utility companies of similar size. SCE also has separate insurance programs for nuclear property and liability, workers compensation and solar rooftop construction. For further information on nuclear and wildfire insurance, see "Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies." 

4

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY

Regulation

CPUC

The CPUC has the authority to regulate, among other things, retail rates, energy purchases on behalf of retail customers, SCE capital structure, rate of return, issuance of securities, disposition of utility assets and facilities, oversight of nuclear decommissioning funding and costs, and aspects of the transmission system planning, site identification and construction.

FERC

The FERC has the authority to regulate wholesale rates as well as other matters, including unbundled transmission service pricing, rate of return, accounting practices, and licensing of hydroelectric projects. The FERC also has jurisdiction over a portion of the retail rates and associated rate design.

NERC

The FERC assigned administrative responsibility to the NERC to establish and enforce reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards, which protect the bulk power system against potential disruptions from cyber and physical security breaches. The critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cyber security assets, including supervisory control and data acquisition systems for the electric grid. Compliance with these standards is mandatory. The maximum penalty that may be levied for violating a NERC reliability or critical infrastructure protection standard is $1 million per violation, per day.

SCE has a formal cyber security program that covers SCE's information technology systems as well as customer data. Program staff is engaged with industry groups as well as public-private initiatives to reduce risk and to strengthen the security and reliability of SCE's systems and infrastructure. The program is also engaged in the protection of SCE's customer information.

Transmission and Substation Facilities Regulation

The construction, planning and project site identification of SCE's transmission lines and substation facilities require the approval of many governmental agencies and compliance with various laws. These agencies include utility regulatory commissions such as the FERC, the CPUC and other state regulatory agencies depending on the project location; the CAISO, and other environmental, land management and resource agencies such as the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Forest Service, and the California Department of Fish and Game; and regional water quality control boards. In addition, to the extent that SCE transmission line projects pass through lands owned or controlled by Native American tribes, consent and approval from the affected tribes and the Bureau of Indian Affairs are also necessary for the project to proceed.

CEC

The construction, planning, and project site identification of SCE's power plants (excluding solar and hydro plants) of 50 MW or greater within California are subject to the jurisdiction of the CEC. The CEC is also responsible for forecasting future energy needs. These forecasts are used by the CPUC in determining the adequacy of SCE's electricity procurement plans.

Nuclear Power Plant Regulation

The NRC has jurisdiction with respect to the safety of the San Onofre and Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Stations. The NRC regulates commercial nuclear power plants through licensing, oversight and inspection, performance assessment, and enforcement of its requirements. In June 2013, SCE decided to permanently retire and decommission San Onofre. For further information, see "Management Overview—Permanent Retirement of San Onofre " in the MD&A.

Overview of Ratemaking Process

CPUC

Revenue authorized by the CPUC through triennial GRC proceedings is intended to provide SCE a reasonable opportunity to recover its costs and earn a return on its net investments in generation and distribution assets and general plant (also referred to as “rate base”) on a forecast basis. The CPUC sets an annual revenue requirement for the base year which is made up of the operation and maintenance costs, depreciation, taxes and a return consistent with the authorized cost of capital (discussed below). The return is established by multiplying an authorized rate of return, determined in separate cost of capital 

5

proceedings, by SCE's authorized CPUC rate base. In the GRC proceedings, the CPUC also generally approves the level of capital spending on a forecast basis. Following the base year, the revenue requirements for the remaining two years are set by a methodology established in the GRC proceeding, which generally, among other items, includes annual allowances for escalation in operation and maintenance costs and additional changes in capital-related investments.

SCE's 2012 GRC authorized revenue requirements for 2012, 2013, and 2014 of $5.7 billion, $5.8 billion, and $6.2 billion, respectively. In November 2013, SCE filed its 2015 GRC application that requested a 2015 base rate revenue requirement of $6.4 billion. For further discussion of the 2015 GRC, see “Management Overview—2015 General Rate Case” in the MD&A.

CPUC rates decouple authorized revenue from the volume of electricity sales so that SCE receives revenue equal to amounts authorized. Differences between amounts collected and authorized levels are either collected from or refunded to customers, and, therefore, such differences do not impact operating revenue. Accordingly, SCE is neither benefited nor burdened by the volumetric risk related to retail electricity sales.

The CPUC regulates SCE's cost of capital, including its capital structure and authorized rates of return. SCE's authorized capital structure is 43% long-term debt, 9% preferred equity and 48% common equity. SCE's authorized cost of capital, effective January 1, 2013, consists of: cost of long-term debt of 5.49%, cost of preferred equity of 5.79% and return on common equity of 10.45%. In 2013, the CPUC authorized SCE's cost of capital adjustment mechanism to continue for 2014 and 2015. The mechanism provides for an automatic adjustment to SCE's authorized cost of capital if the utility bond index changes beyond certain thresholds on an annual basis. The index changes did not exceed the threshold in September 2013 so the return on common equity will remain at 10.45% for 2014. SCE will reevaluate the cost of capital for 2015 in September 2014 and the capital adjustment mechanism will set SCE's 2015 cost of capital.

Balancing accounts (also referred to as cost-recovery mechanisms) are typically used to track and recover SCE's costs of fuel, purchased-power, and certain operation and maintenance expenses, including energy efficiency and demand-side management program costs. SCE earns no return on these activities and although differences between forecasted and actual costs do not impact earnings, such differences do impact cash flows and can change rapidly.

SCE's balancing account for fuel and power procurement-related costs is referred to as the ERRA balancing account. SCE sets rates based on an annual forecast of the costs that it expects to incur during the subsequent year. In addition, the CPUC has established a "trigger" mechanism for the ERRA balancing account that allows for a rate adjustment if the balancing account over- or under-collection exceeds 5% of SCE's prior year's revenue that is classified as generation for retail rates. For 2014, the trigger amount is approximately $289 million. At December 31, 2013, SCE's undercollection in the ERRA balancing account was approximately $1 billion, due to delays in regulatory decisions and the deferral of San Onofre costs to the OII proceeding. For further information on the status of the ERRA undercollection, see "Management Overview—ERRA Balancing Account" in the MD&A. 

The majority of procurement-related costs eligible for recovery through cost-recovery rates are pre-approved by the CPUC through specific decisions and a procurement plan with predefined standards that establish the eligibility for cost recovery. If such costs are subsequently found to be non-compliant with this procurement plan, then this could negatively impact SCE's earnings and cash flows. In addition, the CPUC retrospectively reviews outages associated with utility-owned generation and SCE's power procurement contract administration activities through the annual ERRA review proceeding. If SCE is found to be unreasonable or imprudent with respect to its utility-owned generation outages and contract administration activities, then this could negatively impact SCE's earnings and cash flows.

FERC

Revenue authorized by the FERC is intended to provide SCE with recovery of its prudently-incurred transmission costs, including a return on its net investment in transmission assets (also referred to as "rate base"). In November 2013, the FERC approved SCE's settlement to implement a formula rate effective January 1, 2012 to determine SCE's FERC transmission revenue requirement, including its construction work in progress ("CWIP") revenue requirement that was previously recovered through a separate mechanism. Under operation of the formula rate, transmission revenue will be updated to actual cost of service annually. The transmission revenue requirement and rates are updated each December, to reflect a forecast of costs for the upcoming rate period, as well as a true up of the transmission revenue to actual costs incurred by SCE in the prior calendar year on its formula rate. The FERC weighted average ROE, including project and other incentives, is 10.45% and will remain in effect until at least June 30, 2015, when the moratorium, provided for in the settlement, on modifications to the formula rate tariff ends. For further information on the current FERC formula rates, related transmission revenue requirements and rate changes, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Regulatory Proceedings—FERC Formula Rates” in the MD&A.

6

Retail Rates Structure

To develop retail rates, the authorized revenue requirements are allocated among all customer classes (residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural and street lighting) on a functional basis (i.e., generation, distribution, transmission, etc.). Specific rate components are designed to recover the authorized revenue allocated to each customer class.

SCE has a four-tier residential rate structure. Each tier represents a certain electricity usage level and within each increasing usage level, the electricity is priced at a higher rate per kilowatt hour. The first tier is a baseline tier and has the lowest rate per kilowatt hour. "Baseline" refers to a specific amount of energy allocated for residential customers that is charged at a lower price than energy used in excess of that amount. Baseline allowances are determined by SCE for approval by the CPUC using average residential electricity consumption for nine geographical regions in southern and central California. 

The intent of the baseline allowance and the tiered structure is to provide a portion of reasonable energy needs (baseline usage) of residential customers at the lowest rate, and to encourage conservation of energy by increasing the rate charged as energy usage increases. Although, for more than a decade, statutory restrictions on increasing Tier 1 and 2 rates resulted in shifting much of the cost of residential rate increases to the higher tier/usage customers, the California legislature passed a law ("AB 327") in October 2013 that lifts the restrictions on Tier 1 and 2 rates. The law also returns to the CPUC the authority to authorize an increase in residential customer charges (beginning in January 2015 at the earliest, which can aid in recovering more of SCE’s fixed costs of serving residential customers. In connection with an open rulemaking proceeding at the CPUC, SCE has proposed to reduce the rate ratio between the four tiers so that more revenues are collected from Tier 1 and 2 customers, which will relieve the pressure on upper-tier rates, and a decision is expected on this proposal by summer 2014. SCE also expects to include a proposal for an increased customer charge in a subsequent phase of the rulemaking.

Energy Efficiency Incentive Mechanism

In December 2012, the CPUC adopted an energy efficiency incentive mechanism for the 2010 – 2012 energy efficiency program performance period. The mechanism uses an incentive calculation that is based on actual energy efficiency expenditures. The December 2012 CPUC decision provided shareholder earnings for the 2010 program performance period and allows SCE the opportunity to claim future shareholder earnings in both 2013 and 2014 associated with SCE's 2011 and 2012 program performance periods using this incentive calculation. In September 2013, the CPUC adopted a new energy efficiency incentive mechanism called the Energy Savings and Performance Incentive Mechanism ("ESPI"). The ESPI will apply starting with the 2013 – 2014 energy efficiency program cycle and continue for subsequent cycles, until further notice. The ESPI is comprised of performance/savings rewards and management fees based on actual energy efficiency expenditures and does not contain any provisions for penalties. The proposed ESPI schedule for earning claims anticipates payments of the incentive rewards occurring between one and two years after the relevant program year. For further discussion of SCE's energy efficiency incentive awards, see "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Regulatory Proceedings—Energy Efficiency Incentive Mechanism" in the MD&A.

Purchased Power and Fuel Supply

SCE obtains power needed to serve its customers primarily from purchases from qualifying facilities, independent power producers, the CAISO, and other utilities as well as from its generating facilities.

Natural Gas Supply

SCE requires natural gas to meet contractual obligations for power tolling agreements (power contracts in which SCE has agreed to provide or pay for the natural gas burned to generate electricity). SCE also requires natural gas to fuel its Mountainview and peaker plants, which are generation units that are designed to operate in response to changes in demand for power. The physical natural gas purchased by SCE is subject to competitive bidding.

Nuclear Fuel Supply

SCE had various nuclear fuel supply commitments for San Onofre Units 2 and 3. As a result of the decision to permanently retire San Onofre Units 2 and 3, SCE has submitted fuel contract delivery cancellation notices for these contractual arrangements. For more information, see "Management Overview—Permanent Retirement of San Onofre" in the MD&A and "Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Other Contingencies."

7

For Palo Verde, contractual arrangements are in place covering 100% of the projected nuclear fuel requirements through the years indicated below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CAISO Wholesale Energy Market

In California and other states, there are wholesale energy markets through which competing electricity generators offer their electricity output to market participants, including electricity retailers. Each state's wholesale electricity market is generally operated by its state ISO or a regional RTO. California's wholesale electricity market is operated by the CAISO. The CAISO schedules power in hourly increments with hourly prices through a real-time and day-ahead market that combines energy, ancillary services, unit commitment and congestion management. SCE participates in the day-ahead and real-time markets for the sale of its generation and purchases for its load requirements.

The CAISO uses a nodal locational pricing model, which sets wholesale electricity prices at system points ("nodes") that reflect local generation and delivery costs. Generally, SCE schedules its electricity generation to serve its load but when it has excess generation or the market price of power is more economic than its own generation, SCE may sell power from utility-owned generation assets and existing power procurement contracts into, or buy generation and/or ancillary services to meet its load requirements from, the day-ahead market. SCE will offer to buy its generation at nodes near the source of the generation, but will take delivery at nodes throughout SCE's service area. Congestion may occur when available energy cannot be delivered due to transmission constraints, which results in transmission congestion charges and differences in prices at various nodes. The CAISO also offers congestion revenue rights or CRRs, a commodity that entitles the holder to receive (or pay) the value of transmission congestion between specific nodes, acting as an economic hedge against transmission congestion charges.

Competition

SCE faces retail competition in the sale of electricity to the extent that federal and California laws permit other entities to provide electricity and related services to customers within SCE's service area. While California law provides only limited opportunities for customers in SCE's service area to choose to purchase power directly from an energy service provider other than SCE, a California statute was adopted in 2009 that permits a limited, phased-in expansion of customer choice (direct access) for nonresidential customers. SCE also faces competition from cities and municipal districts that create municipal utilities or community choice aggregators. Competition between SCE and other electricity providers is conducted mainly on the basis of price. 

SCE also faces increased competition from distributed power generation alternatives, such as roof-top solar facilities, becoming available to its customers as a result of technological developments, federal and state subsidies, and declining costs of such alternatives. 

Distributed power generation’s competitiveness has been fostered by legislation passed in 1995, when distributed power generation systems were first introduced to the marketplace. The legislation was meant to encourage private investment in renewable energy resources by both residential and non-residential customers and required SCE to offer a net energy metering ("NEM") billing option to customers who install eligible distributed power generation systems to supply all or part of their energy needs. SCE is required to offer the NEM option until the total generating capacity used by NEM customers exceeds 10% of SCE’s aggregate customer peak demand (the "NEM Cap"). 

NEM customers are interconnected to SCE’s grid and credited for the net difference between the electricity SCE supplied to them through the grid and the electricity the customer exported to SCE over a twelve month period. SCE is required to credit the NEM customer for the power they sell back to SCE at the full retail rate. Through the credit they receive, NEM customers effectively avoid paying costs for the grid, which include all of the fixed costs of the poles, wires, meters, advanced technologies, and other infrastructure that makes the grid safe, reliable, and able to accommodate solar panels or other distributed generation systems. In addition, NEM customers are exempted from standby and departing load charges and interconnection-related costs.

8

AB 327 directs the CPUC to address this subsidization through: rate reform, which includes the imposition of fixed charges on both NEM and non-NEM customers; the development of a new standard billing contract for customers who install distributed generation systems after July 2017 or the attainment of the NEM Cap; and a transition period over which customers who received NEM billing prior to new standard billing contract period will transition to the new contract. The new standard billing contract will be based on the actual costs and benefits of distributed power generation.

The effect of these types of competition on SCE generally is to reduce the number of customers purchasing power from SCE in the case of alternative electricity provider and to level the demand for power from SCE in the case of customers who self-generate. However customers who use alternative electricity providers, typically continue to utilize and pay for SCE's transmission and distribution services. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Southern California Edison Company—Regulatory Risks."

In the area of transmission infrastructure, SCE may experience increased competition from merchant transmission providers. The FERC has made changes to its transmission planning requirements with the goal of opening transmission development to competition from independent developers. In July 2011, the FERC adopted new rules that remove incumbent public utility transmission owners' federally-based right of first refusal to construct certain new transmission facilities. The rules direct regional entities, such as ISOs, to create new processes that would allow other providers to develop certain types of new transmission projects. The CAISO filed its processes, as required by the rule, with the FERC in October 2012. The FERC has not yet approved all of these processes. The majority of SCE's 2013 – 2014 transmission capital forecast relates to transmission projects that have been approved by the CAISO and barring a re-evaluation under the new rules, will not be subject to the new processes. The impact of the new rules on future transmission projects will depend on the processes ultimately implemented by regional entities.

Properties

SCE supplies electricity to its customers through extensive transmission and distribution networks. Its transmission facilities, which include sub-transmission facilities and are located primarily in California but also in Nevada and Arizona, deliver power from generating sources to the distribution network and consist of lines ranging from 33 kV to 500 kV and substations. SCE's distribution system, which takes power from substations to customers, includes over 53,000 line miles of overhead lines, 37,000 line miles of underground lines and approximately 800 distribution substations, all of which are located in California. SCE owns the generating facilities listed in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In June 2013, SCE decided to permanently retire the remaining Units at San Onofre. For more information, see "Management Overview—Permanent Retirement of San Onofre " in the MD&A.

On December 30, 2013, SCE completed the sale of its interest in Four Corners to APS. See "Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2. Property, Plant and Equipment" for more information.

9

San Onofre and certain of SCE's substations, and portions of its transmission, distribution and communication systems are located on lands owned by the federal, state or local governments under licenses, permits, easements or leases, or on public streets or highways pursuant to franchises. Certain of the documents evidencing such rights obligate SCE, under specified circumstances and at its expense, to relocate such transmission, distribution, and communication facilities located on lands owned or controlled by federal, state, or local governments. In particular, the easement granted by the U.S. Navy for San Onofre gives the Navy the right to set site-restoration requirements, which could exceed the NRC requirements and require SCE to restore the site to its original condition. 

The majority of SCE's hydroelectric plants and related reservoirs are located in whole or in part on U.S.-owned lands and are subject to FERC licenses. Slightly over half of these plants have FERC licenses that expire at various times between 2021 and 2046. SCE continuously monitors and maintains these licenses. FERC licenses impose numerous restrictions and obligations on SCE, including the right of the United States to acquire projects upon payment of specified compensation. When existing licenses expire, the FERC has the authority to issue new licenses to third parties that have filed competing license applications, but only if their license application is superior to SCE's and then only upon payment of specified compensation to SCE. New licenses issued to SCE are expected to contain more restrictions and obligations than the expired licenses because laws enacted since the existing licenses were issued require the FERC to give environmental objectives greater consideration in the licensing process. Substantially all of SCE's properties are subject to the lien of a trust indenture securing first and refunding mortgage bonds. See "Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5. Debt and Credit Agreements."

Seasonality

Due to warm weather during the summer months and SCE's rate design, operating revenue during the third quarter of each year is generally higher than the other quarters.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION OF EDISON INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES

Legislative and regulatory activities by federal, state, and local authorities in the United States relating to energy and the environment impose numerous restrictions on the operation of existing facilities and affect the timing, cost, location, design, construction and operation of new facilities by Edison International's subsidiaries, as well as the cost of mitigating the environmental impacts of past operations. The environmental regulations and other developments discussed below may impact SCE's fossil-fuel fired power plants and fossil-fuel power plants owned by others that SCE purchases power from, and accordingly, the discussion in this section focuses mainly on regulations applicable to California. For more information on environmental risks, see "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Southern California Edison Company—Environmental Risks."

Edison International and SCE continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments and to evaluate possible strategies for compliance with environmental regulations. Additional information about environmental matters affecting Edison International and its subsidiaries, including projected environmental capital expenditures, is included in the MD&A under the heading "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Capital Investment Plan" and in "Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Environmental Remediation." 

Air Quality

The CAA, which regulates air pollutants from mobile and stationary sources, has a significant impact on the operation of fossil fuel plants. The CAA requires the US EPA to establish concentration levels in the ambient air for six criteria pollutants to protect public health and welfare. These concentration levels are known as NAAQS. The six criteria pollutants are carbon monoxide, lead, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, particulate matter, and SO2.

Federal environmental regulations of these criteria pollutants require states to adopt state implementation plans, known as SIPs, for certain pollutants, which detail how the state will attain the standards that are mandated by the relevant law or regulation. The SIPs must be equal to or more stringent than the federal requirements and must be submitted to the US EPA for approval. Each state identifies the areas within its boundaries that meet the NAAQS (attainment areas) and those that do not (non-attainment areas), and must develop a SIP both to bring non-attainment areas into compliance with the NAAQS and to maintain good air quality in attainment areas. If the attainment status of areas changes, states may be required to develop new SIPs that address the changes. Much of southern California is in a non-attainment area for several criteria pollutants.

National Ambient Air Quality Standards

In 2010, the US EPA proposed a revision to the primary and secondary NAAQS for 8-hour ozone that it had finalized in 2008. The 8-hour ozone standard established in 2008 was 0.075 parts per million but the implementation process must be completed before the 0.075 parts-per-million standard can be enforced. The US EPA issued initial area designations of attainment, nonattainment, and unclassifiable areas across the nation in 2012. Areas in SCE's service area were classified in 

10

various degrees of nonattainment, including the greater Los Angeles area (known as the South Coast Air Basin), which was designated as extreme nonattainment; Kern County (marginal nonattainment); Riverside County (severe nonattainment); Ventura County (serious nonattainment); and the San Joaquin Valley (extreme nonattainment). California is in the process of developing air quality management plans and updating its state implementation plan to outline how compliance with the 2008 NAAQS will be achieved. The implementation plans may call for more stringent restrictions on air emissions, which could further increase the difficulty of siting new natural gas fired generation in Southern California.

Water Quality

Clean Water Act

Regulations under the federal Clean Water Act dictate permitting and mitigation requirements for many of SCE's construction projects, and govern critical parameters at generating facilities, such as the temperature of effluent discharges and the location, design, and construction of cooling water intake structures at generating facilities. Federal standards intended to protect aquatic organisms by reducing capture in the screens attached to cooling water intake structures (impingement) at generating facilities and the water volume brought into the facilities (entrainment) are expected to be finalized in the first quarter of 2014. Due to the decision to permanently retire San Onofre Units 2 and 3, SCE will seek relief from the federal standards in order to avoid material capital expenditures at San Onofre. 

California Restriction on the Use of Ocean-Based Once-Through Cooling

California has a US EPA-approved program to issue individual or group permits for the regulation of Clean Water Act discharges. California also regulates certain discharges not regulated by the US EPA. In 2010, the California State Water Resources Control Board ("SWRCB") issued a final policy, which established significant restrictions on the use of ocean water by existing once-through cooled power plants along the California coast. The final policy required an independent engineering study to be completed prior to the fourth quarter of 2013 regarding the feasibility of compliance by California's two coastal nuclear power plants. SCE received a suspension of the requirement to perform the study pending the submittal of additional information to the SWRCB regarding the continued use of ocean water at San Onofre during decommissioning. In November 2013, SCE submitted this additional information to the SWRCB and is awaiting a decision on its request to be exempted from the requirements of the policy. If the SWRCB grants the exemption, further compliance-related capital expenditures at San Onofre will likely not be required.

Greenhouse Gas Regulation

There have been a number of federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives to reduce GHG emissions. Any climate change regulation or other legal obligation that would require substantial reductions in GHG emissions or that would impose additional costs or charges for the emission of GHGs could significantly increase the cost of generating electricity from fossil fuels, as well as the cost of purchased power.

Federal Legislative/Regulatory Developments

In 2010, the US EPA issued the Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, known as the "GHG tailoring rule." This regulation generally subjects newly constructed sources of GHG emissions and newly modified existing major sources to the PSD air permitting program beginning in January 2011 (and later, to the Title V permitting program under the CAA); however, the GHG tailoring rule significantly increases the emissions thresholds that apply before facilities are subjected to these programs. The emissions thresholds for CO2 equivalents in the final rule vary from 75,000 tons per year to 100,000 tons per year, depending on the date and whether the sources are new or modified. In September 2013, the US EPA announced proposed carbon dioxide emissions limits for new power plants. President Obama has directed the US EPA to develop greenhouse gas emissions performance standards for existing plants by June 2015. Regulation of GHG emissions pursuant to the PSD program could affect efforts to modify SCE's facilities in the future, and could subject new capital projects to additional permitting or emissions control requirements that could delay such projects. 

Since 2010, the US EPA's Final Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule has required all sources within specified categories, including electric generation facilities, to monitor emissions, and to submit annual reports to the US EPA by March 31 of each year. SCE's 2013 GHG emissions from utility-owned generation were approximately 6.7 million metric tons. 

Regional Initiatives and State Legislation

Regional initiatives and state legislation also require reductions of GHG emissions and it is not yet clear whether or to what extent any federal legislation would preempt them. If state and/or regional initiatives remain in effect after federal legislation is enacted, utilities and generators could be required to satisfy them in addition to the federal standards.

11

SCE's operations in California are subject to two laws governing GHG emissions. The first law, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 (also referred to as AB 32), establishes a comprehensive program to reduce GHG emissions. AB 32 required the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") to develop regulations, which became effective in 2012, that would reduce California's GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. In December 2011, the CARB regulation was officially published establishing a California cap-and-trade program. In the California cap-and-trade program, all covered GHG emitters, including SCE, are subject to a “cap” on their emissions designed to encourage entities to reduce emissions from their operations. Covered entities must remit a compliance instrument for each ton of carbon dioxide equivalent gas emitted and can do so buying state-issued emission allowances at auction or purchasing them in the secondary allowance market. GHG emitters can also meet up to 8% of their AB 32 cap-and-trade obligations by participating in verified offset programs, such as reforestation, that have recognized effects on reducing atmospheric GHGs. The first compliance period for the cap-and-trade program covers 2013-2014 GHG emissions. The most recent auction, held on November 19, 2013, cleared at $11.48/metric ton, $0.77 above the floor price of $10.71.

CARB regulations implementing a cap-and-trade program and the cap-and-trade program itself, continue to be the subject of litigation. In 2012, environmental groups filed a case against CARB challenging the cap-and-trade program's offset provisions. SCE intervened as part of a broad business coalition to support the provisions on offset programs. The Superior Court upheld the offset provisions but the case is on appeal. The California Chamber of Commerce and a private company filed suits alleging that the auction itself violated AB 32 and the California Constitution. The Superior Court consolidated the two suits and ruled in CARB's favor in November 2013. Plaintiffs have announced their intent to appeal.

The second law, SB 1368, required the CPUC and the CEC to adopt GHG emission performance standards that apply to California investor-owned and publicly owned utilities' long-term arrangements for the purchase of electricity. The standards that have been adopted prohibit these entities, including SCE, from entering into long-term financial commitments with generators that emit more than 1,100 pounds of CO2 per MWh, which is the performance of a combined-cycle gas turbine generator.

In 2011, California enacted a law to require California retail sellers of electricity to procure 33% of their customers' electricity requirements from renewable resources, as defined in the statute. The CPUC set procurement quantity requirements applicable to SCE that incrementally increase to 33% over several periods between January 2011 and December 2020. The requirement remains at 33% of retail sales for each year thereafter. In October 2013, AB 327 was enacted to permit the CPUC to require the procurement of eligible renewable energy resources in excess of 33%; but the CPUC has not yet changed this requirement. SCE's delivery of eligible renewable resources to customers was 20% of its total energy portfolio for 2012 and is estimated to be approximately 22% of its total energy portfolio for 2013. 

Litigation Developments

Litigation alleging that GHGs have caused damages for which plaintiffs seek recovery may affect SCE, whether or not it is named as a defendant. The legal developments in this area have focused on whether lawsuits seeking recovery for such alleged damages present questions capable of judicial resolution or political questions that should be resolved by the legislative or executive branches.

In 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court dismissed public nuisance claims against five power companies related to GHG emissions. In the dismissal, the Supreme Court ruled that the CAA, and the US EPA actions it authorizes, displace federal common law nuisance claims that might arise from the emission of GHGs. The Supreme Court also affirmed that at least some of the plaintiffs had standing to bring the case, but did not determine whether the CAA also preempts state law claims that might arise from the same circumstances.

Other suits alleging causes of action that include negligence, public and private nuisance, trespass, and violation of the public trust have been dismissed on threshold grounds, including justiciability and standing, by several courts. However, various groups of plaintiffs continue to explore and assert legal theories under which they seek to obtain recovery for past alleged harm, or have courts issue rulings that will control levels of current and future GHG emissions. Thus, the defendants in the dismissed actions, including SCE and other Edison International subsidiaries, together with other industrial companies associated with GHG emissions, may be required to defend such actions in both state and federal courts for the foreseeable future.

12

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS