ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

RISKS RELATING TO EDISON INTERNATIONAL

Edison International's liquidity depends on SCE's ability to pay dividends and tax allocation payments to Edison International.

Edison International is a holding company and, as such, it has no operations of its own. Edison International's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of SCE and its ability to make upstream distributions. Prior to paying dividends to Edison International, SCE has financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. In addition, CPUC holding company rules require that SCE's dividend policy be established by SCE's Board of Directors on the same basis as if SCE were a stand-alone utility company, and that the capital requirements of SCE, as deemed to be necessary to meet SCE's service obligations, shall receive first priority from the Boards of Directors of both Edison International and SCE. SCE may also owe tax-allocation payments to Edison International under applicable tax-allocation agreements. Financial market and economic conditions may have an adverse effect on Edison International's liquidity. See "Risks Relating to Southern California Edison Company" below for further discussion.

The Settlement Agreement between Edison International, EME and certain of EME’s unsecured creditors may not be approved by the Bankruptcy Court or otherwise not be consummated, which could result in claims by EME against Edison International that may result in losses to Edison International. 

In December 2012, EME and certain of its wholly-owned subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in the Bankruptcy Court. EME submitted its Plan of Reorganization in December 2013, which included the sale of substantially all of EME’s assets to NRG Energy, Inc. Under the December Plan, EME would have retained certain assets and liabilities, including any claims against Edison International when it emerges from bankruptcy. EME had indicated that it was preparing a complaint containing claims similar to those alleged by the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors in a motion filed in the Bankruptcy Court in August 2013 against Edison International, SCE, certain other subsidiaries of Edison International, and present and former directors of Edison International, SCE and EME (the "EME Claims"). In February 2014, Edison International, EME and certain of EME’s creditors holding a majority of its outstanding senior unsecured notes (“Consenting Noteholders”) entered into a Settlement Agreement pursuant to which EME amended its previously filed Plan of Reorganization to incorporate the terms of the Settlement Agreement. Under the Amended Plan of Reorganization, all existing EME claims against Edison International would be extinguished. The Amended Plan of Reorganization, including the Settlement Agreement, is subject to Bankruptcy Court approval, which is expected to occur in March 2014, but is not certain. If the Amended Plan is not approved, this could result in EME or its creditors filing the EME Claims against Edison International, SCE, certain other subsidiaries of Edison International, and present and former directors of Edison International, SCE and EME. If such a complaint were to be filed, Edison International would vigorously contest such allegations. An unfavorable outcome of such claims by EME could result in losses to and adversely impact Edison International. For further information on EME's bankruptcy filing, see "Management Overview—EME Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Filing."

Edison International's activities are concentrated in one industry and in one region.

Edison International does not have diversified sources of revenue or regulatory oversight. SCE comprises substantially all of Edison International’s business, and Edison International’s business is expected to remain concentrated in the electricity industry. Furthermore, Edison International's current business is concentrated almost entirely in southern California. As a result, Edison International's future performance may be affected by events and economic performance concentrated in southern California or by regional regulation or legislation.

13

RISKS RELATING TO SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY

Regulatory Risks

SCE is subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or legislation.

SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE's business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. Among other things, the CPUC regulates SCE's retail rates and capital structure, and the FERC regulates SCE's wholesale rates. The NRC regulated the operations of San Onofre and regulates the decommissioning of San Onofre. The construction, planning, and project site identification of SCE's power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to the jurisdiction of the California Energy Commission (for thermal power plants 50 MW or greater) and the CPUC.

SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE's business could be materially affected. The process of obtaining licenses and permits from regulatory authorities may be delayed or defeated by concerted community opposition and such delay or defeat would have a material effect on SCE's business.

This extensive governmental regulation creates significant risks and uncertainties for SCE's business. Existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE, or its facilities or operations in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in significant additional costs. In addition, regulations adopted via the public initiative process may apply to SCE, or its facilities or operations in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in significant additional costs.

SCE's financial results depend upon its ability to recover its costs in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates.

SCE's ongoing financial results depend on its ability to recover from its customers in a timely manner its costs, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, through the rates it charges its customers as approved by the CPUC and FERC. SCE's financial results also depend on its ability to earn a reasonable return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. SCE's capital investment plan, increasing procurement of renewable power, increasing environmental regulations, leveling demand, and the cumulative impact of other public policy requirements, collectively place continuing upward pressure on customer rates. If SCE is unable to obtain a sufficient rate increase or modify its rate design to recover material amounts of its costs (including an adequate return on capital) in rates in a timely manner, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected. For further information on SCE's rate requests, see "Management Overview—2015 General Rate Case," "Item 1. Business—SCE—Overview of Ratemaking Process—Retail Rates Structure" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources—SCE—Regulatory Proceedings—FERC Formula Rates" in the MD&A.

SCE may not fully recover its investment in San Onofre from regulatory proceedings, SCE's supplier, insurance, or otherwise; could be subject to NRC actions, including the imposition of penalties; or could be ordered by the CPUC to make refunds to customers of prior revenues. 

In June 2013, SCE decided to permanently retire and decommission Units 2 and 3 at San Onofre. The CPUC is conducting an investigation proceeding that will consider the cost recovery for all San Onofre costs, including the cost of the steam generator replacement project, other sunk capital costs, substitute market power costs, nuclear fuel, operation and maintenance costs and seismic study costs. SCE cannot assure that the remaining cost of the steam generators, repair costs or the necessary substitute market power will be recoverable from its supplier, insurance, regulatory processes or otherwise or that the CPUC will not order refund of revenues previously collected. These amounts could be material and could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations. 

San Onofre remains subject to NRC oversight and SCE is aware of an NRC investigation into information SCE provided to the NRC regarding the steam generator failure; which could subject SCE to additional actions, including imposition of penalties. For more information, see "Management Overview—Permanent Retirement of San Onofre" in the MD&A.

SCE's energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could materially affect its financial condition and liquidity.

SCE obtains energy, capacity, environmental credits and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants, and through contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an 

14

approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE's cash flows remain subject to volatility primarily resulting from changes to commodity prices. In addition, SCE is subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance with SCE's procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs. For more information, see "Management Overview—ERRA Balancing Account" in the MD&A.

SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on economic terms or fully recover the costs of hedges through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, which could materially affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations, see "Market Risk Exposures" in the MD&A.

Financing Risks

As a capital intensive company, SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access the capital markets or the cost of financing were to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations would be materially affected.

SCE regularly accesses the capital markets to finance its activities and is expected to do so by its regulators as part of its obligation to serve as a regulated utility. SCE's needs for capital for its ongoing infrastructure investment program are substantial. SCE's ability to obtain financing, as well as its ability to refinance debt and make scheduled payments of principal, interest and preferred stock dividends, are dependent on numerous factors, including SCE's levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, its financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. SCE's failure to obtain additional capital from time to time would have a material effect on SCE's liquidity and operations.

Competitive and Market Risks

The electricity industry is undergoing extensive changes, including increased competition, technological advancements, and political and regulatory developments.

The entire electricity industry is undergoing extensive change, including technological advancements such as self-generation, energy storage and distributed generation that may change the nature of energy generation and delivery. 

Demand for electricity from utilities has been leveling, while growth in self-generation has been accelerating. At the same time, a growing amount of investment is needed to replace aging infrastructure, and without corresponding growth in demand or corresponding savings elsewhere, these investments are reflected in rate increases that have the effect of further leveling demand and encouraging self-generation. Self-generation itself may exacerbate these trends by reducing the pool of customers, subject to certain regulatory limits, from whom fixed costs are recovered, while potentially increasing costs of system modifications that may be needed to integrate the systemic effects of self-generation. Rate designs that disproportionately impose costs on some classes of customers also accelerate these trends. For example, customers in California that self-generate their own power do not currently pay most transmission and distribution charges and non-bypassable charges, subject to limitations. Other customer classes have had artificial caps placed upon their proportionate sharing in overall costs. The net result is to increase utility rates further for those customers who do not self-generate or are not subject to such caps, which encourages more self-generation and further rate increases. For more information, see "Item 1. Business—SCE—Overview of Ratemaking Process—Retail Rates Structure."

In addition, the FERC has adopted changes that have opened transmission development to competition from independent developers, allowing such developers to compete with incumbent utilities for the construction and operation of transmission facilities. For more information, see "Item 1. Business—SCE—Competition."

Another emerging trend in the electricity industry is the increasing public discussion regarding the possibility of future changes in the electric utility business model as a result of the technological advancements and competitive pressures discussed above as well as political and regulatory developments. In October 2013, the CPUC held an open hearing to receive views from various sources on whether the current California utility business model should be revised. It is possible that material revisions to the traditional utility business model could materially affect SCE's business model and its financial condition and results of operations. 

Operating Risks

SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and maintaining its facilities.

SCE's infrastructure is aging and could pose a risk to system reliability. In order to mitigate this risk, SCE is engaged in a significant and ongoing infrastructure investment program. This substantial investment program elevates the operational risks and the need for superior execution in its activities. SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected if it is unable to successfully manage these risks as well as the risks inherent in operating and maintaining its 

15

facilities, the operation of which can be hazardous. SCE's inherent operating risks include such matters as the risks of human performance, workforce capabilities, public opposition to infrastructure projects, delays, environmental mitigation costs, difficulty in estimating costs, system limitations and degradation, and interruptions in necessary supplies.

Weather-related incidents and other natural disasters could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations.

Weather-related incidents and other natural disasters, including storms, wildfires and earthquakes, can disrupt the generation and transmission of electricity, and can seriously damage the infrastructure necessary to deliver power to SCE's customers. These events can lead to lost revenues and increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs. They can also result in regulatory penalties and disallowances, particularly if SCE encounters difficulties in restoring power to its customers. These occurrences could materially affect SCE's business, financial condition and results of operations, and the inability to restore power to SCE's customers could also materially damage the business reputation of SCE and Edison International.

The generation, transmission and distribution of electricity are dangerous and involve inherent risks of damage to private property and injury to employees and the general public.

Electricity is dangerous for employees and the general public should they come in contact with electrical current or equipment, including through downed power lines or if equipment malfunctions. Injuries and property damage caused by such events can subject SCE to liability that, despite the existence of insurance coverage, can be significant. The CPUC has increased its focus on public safety issues with an emphasis on heightened compliance with construction and operating standards and the potential for penalties being imposed on utilities. Such penalties and liabilities could be significant but are very difficult to predict. The range of possible penalties and liabilities includes amounts that could materially affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations.

SCE's systems and network infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical and cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality.

Regulators, such as the NERC, and U.S. Government Departments, including the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security and Energy, have noted that the U.S. national electric grid and other energy infrastructures have potential vulnerabilities to cyber and other attacks and disruptions and that such threats are becoming increasingly sophisticated and dynamic. SCE's operations require the continuous operation of critical information technology systems and network infrastructure. Although SCE actively monitors developments in this area and is involved in various industry groups and government initiatives, no security measures can completely shield such systems and infrastructure from vulnerabilities to cyber attacks, intrusions or other catastrophic events that could result in their failure or reduced functionality. If SCE's information technology systems security measures were to be breached or a critical system failure were to occur without timely recovery, SCE could be unable to fulfill critical business functions and/or sensitive confidential personal and other data could be compromised, which could materially affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations and materially damage the business reputation of Edison International and SCE. See "Item 1. Business—Regulation—NERC" for further discussion.

There are inherent risks associated with owning and decommissioning nuclear power generating facilities, including, among other things, potential harmful effects on the environment and human health and the danger of storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials.

The cost of decommissioning Unit 2 and Unit 3 of San Onofre could prove more extensive than is currently estimated. These costs could exceed estimates or may not be recoverable through regulatory processes or otherwise. For more information, see "Risks Relating to Southern California Edison Company—Regulatory Risks" above.

Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident. 

Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection, which is currently approximately $13.6 billion. SCE and other owners of the San Onofre and Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Stations have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of $375 million per site. If nuclear incident liability claims were to exceed $375 million, the remaining amount would be made up from contributions of approximately $12.2 billion made by all of the nuclear facility owners in the U.S., up to an aggregate total of $13.6 billion. There is no assurance that the CPUC would allow SCE to recover the required contribution made in the case of one or more nuclear incident claims that exceeded $375 million. If this public liability limit of $13.6 billion is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. There can be no assurance of SCE's ability to recover uninsured costs in the event 

16

the additional federal appropriations are insufficient. For more information on nuclear insurance risk, see "Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Nuclear Insurance."

SCE's insurance coverage for wildfires arising from its ordinary operations may not be sufficient.

Edison International has experienced increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from SCE's ordinary operations. In addition, the insurance that has been obtained for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient. Uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. A loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially affect Edison International's and SCE's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to Edison International. For more information on wildfire insurance risk, see "Item 8. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies—Wildfire Insurance."

Environmental Risks

SCE is subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and materially affect SCE.

SCE is subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental regulations and permitting requirements that involve significant and increasing costs and substantial uncertainty. SCE devotes significant resources to environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation projects, and emission allowances to comply with existing and anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. However, the current trend is toward more stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive application of environmental regulations. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement greenhouse gas controls could materially affect operations of power plants, which could in turn impact electricity markets and SCE's purchased power costs. SCE may also be exposed to risks arising from past, current or future contamination at its former or existing facilities or with respect to offsite waste disposal sites that have been used in its operations. Other environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, disposal of ash, wastewater discharge and cooling water systems, are also generally becoming more stringent. The continued operation of SCE facilities may require substantial capital expenditures for environmental controls or cessation of operations. Current and future state laws and regulations in California also could increase the required amount of energy that must be procured from renewable resources. See "Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulation of Edison International and Subsidiaries" for further discussion of environmental regulations under which SCE operates.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES