PART I

Item 1. Business.

Introduction

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world’s largest home improvement retailer based on Net Sales for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2014 ("fiscal 2013"). The Home Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement products and lawn and garden products and provide a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 104,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal 2013, we had 2,263 The Home Depot stores located throughout the United States including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam, Canada and Mexico. When we refer to "The Home Depot," the "Company," "we," "us" or "our" in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is (770) 433-8211.

Our internet website is www.homedepot.com. We make available on the Investor Relations section of our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.

We include our website addresses throughout this filing for reference only. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this report.

For information on key financial highlights, including historical revenues, profits and total assets, see the "Five-Year Summary of Financial and Operating Results" on page F-1 of this report and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

 1
Our Business

Operating Strategy 

Over the past several years, we have maintained a consistent strategic framework comprised of three key initiatives: Customer Service; Product Authority; and Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency. We tie these together through our Interconnected Retail initiative with the objective of strengthening our performance in each element of the framework and providing a seamless customer experience, whether it begins online or in our stores. In fiscal 2013, we continued to execute on our strategy as follows:

•Customer Service. Our customer service initiative is anchored on the principles of creating an emotional connection with our customers, putting customers first, taking care of our associates and simplifying the business. One of our primary objectives has been to take tasking out of the stores so that our associates can devote more time to assisting our customers. By the end of fiscal 2013, we reached our goal of dedicating 60% of our store labor hours to customer-facing activities. We have also instituted new programs for our professional customers and new associate training specific to our "interconnected" customers who order product online and pick it up in our stores. Through these efforts, we exceeded our internal goal in customer satisfaction survey results, and we are continuing our efforts to improve on those results. We also sought to maintain competitive wages and incentive opportunities to attract, retain and motivate our associates. 

•Product Authority. Our product authority initiative is facilitated by our merchandising transformation and portfolio strategy, which is focused on delivering product innovation, assortment and value. In fiscal 2013, we introduced a wide range of innovative new products to our professional, do-it-for-me and do-it-yourself customers, while remaining focused on offering everyday values in our stores and online. To maximize the productivity of our selling square footage, we invested in advanced tools to localize the selection of in-store products and identify space availability that can be shifted to other categories we want to grow. We also continued to expand our online product assortment to provide more variety for our customers. For example, in fiscal 2013, we continued our appliance showroom resets in our stores and expanded our assortment of appliances available online, resulting in double digit growth for appliances in fiscal 2013. In addition, to respond to increasing customer demand for personalization, we introduced customizable products such as patio sets.

•Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency. We have advanced this initiative through building best-in-class competitive advantages in our information technology and supply chain to better ensure product availability to our customers while managing our costs. During fiscal 2013, we continued to focus on optimizing our supply chain network and improving our inventory, transportation and distribution productivity. This effort included enhancements to our forecasting and replenishment systems, which help our business react to and recover from sales spikes while keeping inventory under control. We also invested in our information technology to support our interconnected retail initiative. In addition to making disciplined decisions about capital allocation, we maintained our focus on expense control, which drove higher returns on invested capital and allowed us to return value to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends as discussed in Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

•Interconnected Retail. As customers increasingly expect to be able to buy how, when and where they want, we believe that providing a seamless shopping experience across multiple channels, with an expanded array of merchandise, will be a key enabler for future success. The interconnected retail initiative is woven throughout our business and connects our other three key initiatives. At the core of this initiative is using our almost 2,000 U.S. stores as a network of convenient locations for our customers who shop online. In fiscal 2013, we completed our rollout of Buy Online, Ship to Store ("BOSS") and Buy Online, Return In Store ("BORIS"), which complement Buy Online, Pick-up In Store ("BOPIS"), introduced in fiscal 2011. We also began the groundwork for Buy Online, Deliver From Store ("BODFS"), which will give us the capability to deliver orders placed online from our stores to the customer's home or job site. We expect to launch BODFS in fiscal 2014. To further support direct-to-customer delivery, in February 2014, we opened a new direct fulfillment center in Georgia, with two additional facilities expected to be built by the end of 2015. For our user experience online, we continued to enhance our website and mobile sites by improving our search functionality, making our product content more visual and engaging and simplifying the check-out process. For fiscal 2013, sales from our online channels increased over 50% compared to fiscal 2012. We also enhanced our online experience by acquiring Blinds.com, the market leader in online sales of window coverings, in January 2014. 

 2
Customer Service  

Our Customers. The Home Depot stores serve three primary customer groups, and we have different customer service approaches to meet their particular needs:

•Do-It-Yourself ("DIY") Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. Our associates assist these customers with specific product and installation questions both in our stores and through online resources and other media designed to provide product and project knowledge. We also offer a variety of clinics and workshops both to impart this knowledge and to build an emotional connection with our DIY customers.

•Do-It-For-Me ("DIFM") Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase materials and hire third parties to complete the project or installation. Our stores offer a variety of installation services targeted at DIFM customers who purchase products and installation of those products from us in our stores, online or in their homes through in-home consultations. Our installation programs include many categories, such as flooring, cabinets, countertops, water heaters, and sheds. In addition, we provide professional installation in a number of categories sold through our in-home sales programs, such as roofing, siding, windows, kitchen and bath refacing, furnaces, and central air systems. 

•Professional Customers. These customers are primarily professional remodelers, general contractors, repairmen, small business owners and tradesmen. We recognize the unique service needs of the professional customer and use our expertise to facilitate their buying experience. We offer a variety of special programs to these customers, including delivery and will-call services, dedicated staff, expanded credit programs, designated parking spaces close to store entrances and bulk pricing programs for both online and in-store purchases. In fiscal 2013, we launched a mobile app for our professional customers, which enables them to see multiple stores' inventory at one time, provides them with direct access to our pro desks, and gives them other functionality to help them better manage their businesses. We also introduced Pro Xtra, a new loyalty program that provides our professional customers with discounts on useful business services, exclusive product offers and a purchase tracking tool to enable receipt lookup online and job tracking of purchases across all forms of payment.

In fiscal 2013, we undertook a number of projects and new developments to enhance our customers' shopping experiences. Our goal is to remove complexity from the stores to allow our associates to focus on our customers. As noted above, as of the end of fiscal 2013, approximately 60% of our store labor hours were dedicated to customer-facing activity. We also rolled out a new initiative in fiscal 2013 called Project Simple to reduce unnecessary store reports, store-based emails and meetings that kept store management from selling activities. To assist our BOPIS and BOSS customers, we rolled out a new customer service training for our associates called Customer FIRST for the Interconnected Customer, which stresses the importance of quick customer pickup of merchandise. To support this initiative, we enabled our First Phone mobile handheld devices to complete BOPIS and BOSS transactions from anywhere in the store. Now our online customers can come into the store, retrieve their merchandise and complete the transaction without having to stand in line at the cash register. During fiscal 2013, we also revamped our freight flow process to improve our in-stock rate and accuracy of our on-hand inventory count while also shifting more of the stocking activity to take place when stores are closed so as not to interfere with our customers' shopping experience. 

In fiscal 2013, we continued to automate our special order and installation process to improve transparency and communication and to simplify the customer experience. In addition, we are rolling out Install to Go so that our third-party installers can accept payment on their mobile devices from our DIFM customers, an added convenience for both our installers and customers. We also completed the integration of two companies acquired in fiscal 2012 that provide services to our customers – a flooring measurement company and a kitchen and bath refacing company. These acquisitions enable us to increase our control over the installation process and serve as a single point of contact for our customers, which in turn strengthens and unifies our customers' home services experience under The Home Depot brand.

We help our professional, DIY and DIFM customers finance their projects by offering private label credit products in our stores through third-party credit providers. In fiscal 2013, our customers opened approximately 2.8 million new The Home Depot private label credit accounts, and at fiscal year end the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 11 million. Private label credit card sales accounted for approximately 23% of sales in fiscal 2013. 

Our Associates. Our associates are key to our customer service initiative. We empower our associates to deliver excellent customer service through our Customer FIRST training program, and we have a number of programs to recognize stores and individual associates for exceptional customer and community service. At the end of fiscal 2013, we employed approximately 365,000 associates, of whom approximately 22,000 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or 

 3
temporary basis. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve. We measure associate satisfaction regularly, and we believe that our employee relations are very good. 

Product Authority

Our Products. Our product portfolio strategy is aimed at delivering innovation, assortment and value. A typical The Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 products during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary items. We also offer over 700,000 products through our Home Depot and Home Decorators Collection websites. To enhance our merchandising capabilities, we continued to make improvements to our information technology tools in fiscal 2013 to give our merchants and suppliers greater visibility into category and item performance and to increase the localization of our stores – both in terms of product assortment and space allocation. We also continued to use the resources of BlackLocus, Inc., a data analytics and pricing firm we acquired in fiscal 2012, to help us make focused merchandising decisions based on complex sets of large amounts of data.

In fiscal 2013, we introduced a number of innovative and distinctive products to our customers at attractive values. Examples of these new products include LED light bulbs from Cree®; Soft Spring Carpet from Mohawk®; customizable patio furniture from Plantation Patterns Patio®; wifi-enabled thermostats from Nest® and Honeywell®; Behr Marquee® exterior paint with a one coat coverage guarantee and ability to repel rain within 60 minutes of application; and Double Duty Sawzall Blades from Milwaukee®.

During fiscal 2013, we offered a number of proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments, such as Husky® hand tools and tool storage; Defiant® door locks; Everbilt® hardware fasteners; Hampton Bay® lighting and fans; Vigoro® lawn care products; RIDGID® and Ryobi® power tools; Glacier Bay® bath fixtures; HDX® tools, hardware, storage and cleaning products; and CE Tech® audio-visual accessories. We will continue to assess strategic alliances and relationships with suppliers and opportunities to expand the range of products available under brand names that are exclusive to The Home Depot.

We maintain a global sourcing program to obtain high-quality and innovative products directly from manufacturers around the world. In fiscal 2013, in addition to our sourcing operations at our Store Support Center in Atlanta, Georgia, we maintained three sourcing offices located in the Chinese cities of Shanghai, Shenzhen and Dalian, as well as sourcing offices in Gurgaon, India; Rome, Italy; Monterrey, Mexico and Toronto, Canada.

The percentage of Net Sales of each of our major product categories (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years is presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Net Sales outside the U.S. were $8.5 billion, $8.4 billion and $8.0 billion for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Long-lived assets outside the U.S. totaled $2.9 billion, $3.1 billion and $3.1 billion as of February 2, 2014, February 3, 2013 and January 29, 2012, respectively.

Quality Assurance. We have both quality assurance and engineering resources that are dedicated to overseeing the quality of all of our products, whether they are directly imported, locally or globally sourced or proprietary branded products. Through these programs, we have established criteria for supplier and product performance that are designed to ensure that our products comply with applicable international, federal, state and local safety, quality and performance standards. We also have a Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Program designed to ensure that our suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility.

Energy Saving Products and Programs.  Over 20 years ago, The Home Depot made a commitment to sustainability and doing the right thing for our shareholders, our customers and the environment. We support sustainability on a daily basis by providing consumers with a selection of environmentally preferred products that help them save money, energy and water. Through our Eco Options® Program introduced in 2007, we have created product categories that allow consumers to easily identify products that meet specifications for energy efficiency, water conservation, healthy home, clean air and sustainable forestry. As of the end of fiscal 2013, our Eco Options® Program included over 7,700 products. Through this program, we sell products such as ENERGY STAR® certified appliances, compact fluorescent light ("CFL") and LED light bulbs, wifi-programmable thermostats, tankless water heaters and other products, enabling our customers to save on their utility bills. We estimate that in fiscal 2013 we have helped consumers save nearly $770 million in electricity costs through sales of ENERGY STAR® certified products as well as over 42 billion gallons of water and over $350 million in water bills through the sales of WaterSense®-labeled bath faucets, showerheads, aerators, toilets and irrigation controllers. Additionally, by converting all of our consumer interior paints to "Low VOC" or "Zero VOC," we eliminated over 27 million pounds of volatile organic compound emissions in fiscal 2013.

 4
We also continue to use the Eco Options® page on our website to reach consumers interested in environmentally responsible and cost-saving products and projects. The site provides consumers with information on the benefits of environmentally-preferred Eco Options® products through "green" blogs, articles and projects, featured Eco Options® products and energy and water savings calculators to help consumers estimate potential savings by switching out their older, less efficient products with energy- and water-saving models.

We continue to offer our nationwide, in-store CFL bulb recycling program launched in 2008. This service is offered to customers free of charge and is available in all U.S. stores. We also maintain an in-store rechargeable battery recycling program. Launched in 2001 and currently done in partnership with Call2Recycle, this program is also available to customers free of charge in all stores throughout the U.S. Through these recycling programs, in fiscal 2013 we helped recycle over 600,000 pounds of CFL bulbs and over 940,000 pounds of rechargeable batteries collected from our customers. In fiscal 2013, we also recycled over 94,000 lead acid batteries collected from our customers under our lead acid battery exchange program, as well as approximately 186,000 tons of cardboard through a nationwide cardboard recycling program across our U.S. stores. 

Seasonality. Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter. 

Competition. Our industry is highly competitive, with competition based primarily on customer service, price, store location and appearance, and quality, availability and assortment of merchandise. Although we are currently the world’s largest home improvement retailer, in each of the markets we serve there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and, to a lesser extent, other retailers, as well as with installers of home improvement products. In addition, we face growing competition from online and multichannel retailers as our customers increasingly use computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile devices to shop online and compare prices and products. 

Intellectual Property. Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot® trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business, including our expanding proprietary brands such as HDX®, Husky®, Hampton Bay®, Home Decorators Collection®, Glacier Bay® and Vigoro®. We also maintain patent portfolios relating to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our products or business operations.

Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency

Logistics. Our supply chain operations are focused on creating a competitive advantage through ensuring product availability for our customers, effectively using our investment in inventory, and managing total supply chain costs. Our fiscal 2013 initiatives have been to further optimize and efficiently operate our network, build new logistics capabilities and improve our inventory management systems and processes by investing in information technology.

Our distribution strategy is to provide the optimal flow path for a given product. Rapid Deployment Centers ("RDCs") play a key role in optimizing our network as they allow for aggregation of product needs for multiple stores to a single purchase order and then rapid allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon arrival at the RDC. This results in a simplified ordering process and improved transportation and inventory management. We have 18 fully mechanized RDCs in the U.S., and we opened our first RDC in Canada in early 2014, with a second Canadian RDC under development. We also continued our U.S. transload program for imported products in four facilities operated by third parties near ocean ports. Transload facilities allow us to improve our import logistics costs and inventory management by postponing final inventory deployment decisions until product arrives at destination ports. 

Over the past several years, we have centralized our inventory planning and replenishment function and implemented new forecasting and replenishment technology. This has helped us to improve our in-stock rates and our inventory productivity at the same time. At the end of fiscal 2013, over 95% of our U.S. store products were ordered through central inventory management.

In addition to our 18 RDCs in the U.S., at the end of fiscal 2013, we operated 34 bulk distribution centers, which handle products distributed optimally on flat bed trucks, in the U.S. and Canada. We also operated 36 conventional distribution centers, which include stocking, direct fulfillment and specialty distribution centers, in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. In 

 5
February 2014, to support direct-to-customer delivery, we opened a new direct fulfillment center in the U.S., and we plan to add two additional facilities by the end of 2015. We expect these facilities to provide us the ability to deliver 90% of our customers' parcel orders in the U.S. within two days. We remain committed to leveraging our supply chain capabilities to fully utilize and optimize our improved logistics network.

Commitment to Environmentally Responsible Operations. The Home Depot is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our business, including energy usage, supply chain, store construction and maintenance, and, as noted above under "Energy Saving Products and Programs," product selection and delivery of product knowledge to our customers.

In fiscal 2013, our energy management team continued to implement strict operational standards that establish energy efficient practices in all of our U.S. facilities. These include HVAC unit temperature regulation and adherence to strict lighting schedules, which are the largest sources of energy consumption in our stores, as well as use of energy management systems in each store to monitor energy efficiency. We estimate that by implementing and utilizing these energy saving programs, we have saved almost 7.0 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) since 2004. That year, we set a goal to reduce our kWh per square foot in our U.S. stores by 20% by 2015, and we met that goal in fiscal 2013, well in advance of our targeted date.

Through our supply chain efficiencies described above under "Logistics," we are targeting a 20% reduction in our domestic supply chain greenhouse gas emissions from 2008 to 2015, which would equate to annual fuel savings of approximately 25 million gallons. We also continued to monitor our "carbon footprint" from the operation of our stores as well as from our transportation and supply chain activities. Through our energy conservation and supply chain initiatives, we estimate that we reduced our absolute carbon emissions by approximately 216,000 metric tons in 2012 compared to 2011.

With respect to construction of our stores, we partnered with the U.S. Green Building Council and, as of the end of fiscal 2013, have built eight LEED for New Construction certified or similarly certified stores. In 2012, we opened a new store in Lodi, California and used a grant from the U.S. Department of Energy to help design, monitor and verify the energy savings at that store. The building is designed to consume substantially less energy than the 2007 90.1 ASHRAE standards established by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, an international society that sets forth HVAC and refrigeration standards to promote sustainability. We also implemented a rainwater reclamation project in 2010. As of the end of fiscal 2013, we had retrofitted 122 of our stores with reclamation tanks to collect rainwater and condensation from HVAC units and garden center roofs, which is in turn used to water plants in our outside garden centers. We estimate our annual water savings from these units to be approximately 500,000 gallons per retrofitted store in fiscal 2013.

Our efforts have resulted in a number of environmental awards and recognitions. For example, in 2013, we were named "Retail Partner of the Year" by both the ENERGY STAR® division and WaterSense® division of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for our overall excellence in energy efficiency and water efficiency. We also scored 99 out of 100 on the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Disclosure Index, placing us among the highest scoring companies in the Index and at the top of our sector.

We are strongly committed to maintaining a safe shopping and working environment for our customers and associates and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do business. Our Environmental, Health & Safety ("EH&S") function is dedicated to ensuring the health and safety of our customers and associates, with trained associates who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis. Our EH&S policies are woven into our everyday operations and are part of The Home Depot culture. Some common program elements include: daily store inspection checklists (by department); routine follow-up audits from our store-based safety team members and regional, district and store operations field teams; equipment enhancements and preventative maintenance programs to promote physical safety; departmental merchandising safety standards; training and education programs for all associates, with varying degrees of training provided based on an associate's role and responsibilities; and awareness, communication and recognition programs designed to drive operational awareness and understanding of EH&S issues.

Interconnected Retail

Our interconnected retail initiative supports and connects our three other key initiatives, and it is growing in importance as the line between online and in-store shopping continues to blur. Over 30% of our online orders are picked up in a store, and many of our customers research products online and then go into one of our stores to view the products in person or talk to an associate before making the purchase. While in the store, customers may also go online to access ratings and reviews, compare prices or view our extended assortment, and over 10% of our online orders are created in-store with a store associate assisting the customer. Providing a seamless multichannel retail experience is key to helping our customers buy when, how 

 6
and where they want. Throughout fiscal 2013, we continued to invest in our website to allow customers to more easily find and purchase an expanded array of products and provide them with flexibility and convenience for their purchases (for example, through our BOPIS, BORIS and BOSS programs). Through our website, which can be accessed through computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile devices, customers can share reviews, purchase products, track their installation projects and connect with our associates to gain product and project knowledge. To increase the productivity and efficiency of our associates, merchants and suppliers and ensure that the right product is in the right place to meet our customers' needs, we also continued to invest in the development of our distribution forecasting and replenishment system for enhanced inventory management.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.