PART I  

 Item 1. Business.  

Background and Business Overview  

We are a leading global information and measurement company that provides clients with a comprehensive understanding of consumers and consumer behavior. We deliver critical media and marketing information, analytics and industry expertise about what consumers buy and what consumers watch (consumer interaction with television, online and mobile) on a global and local basis. Our information, insights and solutions help our clients maintain and strengthen their market positions and identify opportunities for profitable growth. We have a presence in approximately 100 countries, including many developing and emerging markets, and hold leading market positions in many of our services and geographies. Based on the strength of the Nielsen brand, our scale and the breadth and depth of our solutions, we believe we are the global leader in measuring and analyzing consumer behavior in the segments in which we operate.  

We help our clients enhance their interactions with consumers and make critical business decisions that we believe positively affect our clients’ sales. Our data and analytics solutions, which have been developed through substantial investment over many decades, are deeply embedded into our clients’ workflow as demonstrated by our long-term client relationships, multi-year contracts and high contract renewal rates. The average length of relationship with our top ten clients, which include The Coca-Cola Company, NBC Universal, Nestle S.A., News Corp., The Procter & Gamble Company and the Unilever Group, is more than 30 years. Typically, before the start of each year, nearly 70% of our annual revenue has been committed under contracts in our combined Buy and Watch segments.  

We align our business into three reporting segments, the principal two of which are what consumers buy (consumer purchasing measurement and analytics herein referred to as “Buy”) and what consumers watch (media audience measurement and analytics herein referred to as “Watch”). Our Buy and Watch segments, which together generated approximately 97% of our revenues in 2012, are built on an extensive foundation of proprietary data assets designed to yield essential insights for our clients to successfully measure, analyze and grow their businesses. The information from our Buy and Watch segments, when brought together, can deliver powerful insights into the effectiveness of advertising by linking media consumption trends with consumer purchasing data to better understand how media exposure drives purchase behavior. We believe these integrated insights will better enable our clients to enhance the return on investment of their advertising and marketing spending.  

Our Buy segment provides retail transactional measurement data, consumer behavior information and analytics primarily to businesses in the consumer packaged goods industry. According to Euromonitor International, global consumer spending in the product categories we measure was over $7.0 trillion in 2009. Our extensive database of retail and consumer information, combined with our advanced analytical capabilities, helps generate strategic insights that influence our clients’ key business decisions. We track billions of sales transactions per month in retail outlets in approximately 100 countries around the world and our data is used by our clients to measure their sales and market share. We are the only company offering such extensive global coverage for the collection, provision and analysis of this information for consumer packaged goods. Our Buy services also enable our clients to better manage their brands, uncover new sources of demand, launch and grow new services, analyze their sales, improve their marketing mix and establish more effective consumer relationships. Within our Buy segment, we have two primary geographic groups, developed and developing markets. Developed markets primarily include the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan and Australia while developing markets include Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Russia, China, India and Southeast Asia. Our Buy segment represented approximately 61% of our total revenues in 2012.  

Our Watch segment provides viewership data and analytics primarily to the media and advertising industries across television, online and mobile screens. According to ZenithOptimedia, a leading global media services agency, total global spending on advertising across television, online and mobile platforms was at least $267 billion in 2011. Our Watch data is used by our media clients to understand their audiences, establish the value of their  

3  

Table of Contents 

 advertising inventory and maximize the value of their content, and by our advertising clients to plan and optimize their spending. Within our Watch segment, our ratings are the primary metrics used to determine the value of programming and advertising in the U.S. total television advertising marketplace, which was approximately $76 billion in 2011 according to a report by Veronis Suhler Stevenson. In addition to the United States, we measure television viewing in 32 other countries. We also measure markets that account for approximately 75% of global internet users and offer mobile measurement services in 16 countries, including the United States, where we are the market leader. Our Watch segment represented approximately 36% of our total revenue in 2012.  

Our Expositions segment operates one of the largest portfolios of business-to-business trade shows and conference events in the United States. Each year, we produce more than 60 trade shows and conference events, which in 2012 connected over 335,000 buyers and sellers across 9 diversified and vibrant end markets. Our Expositions segment represented approximately 3% of our total revenue in 2012.   

Our Company was founded in 1923 by Arthur C. Nielsen, Sr., who invented an approach to measuring competitive sales results that made the concept of “market share” a practical management tool. For nearly 90 years, we have advanced the practice of market research and media audience measurement to provide our clients a better understanding of their consumers. Our Company, incorporated in the Netherlands, was purchased on May 24, 2006 by a consortium of private equity firms (AlpInvest Partners, The Blackstone Group, The Carlyle Group, Hellman & Friedman, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Thomas H. Lee Partners, the “Original Sponsors,” and together with subsequent investor Centerview Partners, the “Sponsors”). Subsequently, David Calhoun was appointed Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Calhoun has repositioned the Company and focused on building an open, simple and integrated operating model to drive innovation and deliver greater value to our clients. In January 2011, our Company consummated an initial public offering of our common stock and our shares trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “NLSN”.  

Services and Solutions  

What Consumers Buy  

Our Buy segment provides retail transactional measurement data, consumer behavior information and analytics primarily to businesses in the consumer packaged goods industry. This segment is organized into two areas: Information, which provides retail scanner and consumer panel-based measurement, and Insights, which provides a broad range of analytics. For the year ended December 31, 2012, revenues from our Buy segment represented approximately 61% of our consolidated revenue. This segment has historically generated stable revenue streams that are characterized by multi-year contracts and high contract renewal rates. At the beginning of each year, approximately 60% of the segment’s revenue base for the upcoming year is typically committed under existing agreements. Our top five Buy segment clients represented approximately 23% of our Buy segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the average length of relationship with these same clients is over 30 years. No single client accounted for 10% or more of our Buy segment revenue in 2012.  

Information: Retail Measurement Services  

We are a global leader in retail measurement services. Our purchasing data provides market share, competitive sales volumes, and insights into such activities as distribution, pricing, merchandising and promotion. By combining this detailed information with our in-house expertise and professional consultative services, we produce valuable insights that help our clients improve their marketing and sales decisions and grow their market share.  

Depending on the sophistication of each country’s retailer systems, we collect retail sales information from stores using electronic point-of-sale technology and/or teams of local field auditors. Stores within our worldwide retail network include grocery, drug, convenience and discount retailers, who, through various cooperation arrangements, share their sales data with us. The electronic retail sales information collected by stores through checkout scanners is transmitted directly to us. In certain developing markets where electronic retail sales information is unavailable, we utilize field auditors to collect information through in-store inventory and price checks. For all information we collect, our quality control systems validate and confirm the source data. The data  

4  

Table of Contents 

 is then processed into databases that clients access using our proprietary software that allows them to query the information, conduct customized analysis and generate reports and alerts.  

Information: Consumer Panel Measurement  

We conduct consumer panels around the world that help our clients understand consumer purchasing dynamics at the household level. Among other things, this information offers insight into shopper behavior such as trial and repeat purchase for new products and likely substitutes, as well as customer segmentation. In addition, our panel data augments our retail measurement information in circumstances where we do not collect data from certain retailers.  

Our consumer panels collect data from approximately 250,000 household panelists across 26 countries who use in-home scanners to record purchases from each shopping trip. In the United States, for example, approximately 100,000 selected households, constituting a demographically balanced sample, participate in the panels. Data received from household panels undergo a quality control process including UPC verification and validation, before being processed into databases and reports. Clients may access these databases to perform analyses.  

Insights: Analytical Services  

Utilizing our foundation of consumer purchasing information, we provide a wide and growing selection of consumer intelligence and analytical services that help clients make smarter business decisions throughout their product development and marketing cycles. We draw actionable insights from our retail and consumer panel measurement data sets, our online behavioral information, as well as a variety of other proprietary data sets.  

We use consumer trends and comprehensive data analysis to advise our clients across their innovation process and apply a demand-driven approach to identify unmet consumer needs so they can develop breakthrough products. We use intelligence from comprehensive retail and consumer data analysis to inform client decisions on marketing spend for media, price, promotion and assortment. We help clients influence purchase decisions that shoppers make whether pre-store, in-store or online, and provide insights on how to market effectively along a shopper’s path to purchase. We also help clients drive profitable growth using demand-driven strategies that close the gap between consumer demand and sales, aligning what people want to what people buy.  

What Consumers Watch  

Our Watch segment provides viewership data and analytics primarily to the media and advertising industries for television, online and mobile devices. For the year ended December 31, 2012, revenues from our Watch segment represented approximately 36% of our consolidated revenue. This segment has historically generated stable revenue streams that are characterized by multi-year contracts and high contract renewal rates. At the beginning of each year, approximately 90% of the segment’s revenue base for the upcoming year is typically committed under existing agreements. Our top five clients represented 30% of segment revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the average length of relationship with these same clients is more than 30 years. No customer accounted for 10% or more of our Watch segment revenue in 2012.  

Television Audience Measurement Services  

We are the global leader in television audience measurement. In the United States, which is by far the world’s largest market for television programming, broadcasters and cable networks use our television audience ratings as the primary currency to establish the value of their airtime and more effectively schedule and promote their programming. Advertisers use this information to plan television advertising campaigns, evaluate the effectiveness of their commercial messages and negotiate advertising rates.  

5  

Table of Contents 

We provide two principal television ratings services in the United States: measurement of national television audiences and measurement of local television audiences in all 210 designated local television markets. We use various methods to collect the data from households including electronic meters, which provide minute-by-minute viewing information for next day consumption by our clients, and written diaries. These methods enable us to collect not only television device viewing data but also the demographics of the audience (i.e., who in the household is watching), from which we calculate statistically reliable and accurate estimates of total television viewership. We have made significant investments over decades to build an infrastructure that can accurately and efficiently track television audience viewing, a process that has become increasingly complex as the industry has converted to digital transmission and integrated new technologies allowing for developments such as time-shifted viewing.  

Our measurement techniques are constantly evolving to account for new television viewing behavior, increased fragmentation and new media technologies. For example, to help advertisers and programmers understand time-shifted viewing behavior, we created the “C3” ratings, which is a measure of how many people watch programming and commercials during live and time-shifted viewing up to three days after the program aired. The C3 rating has become the primary metric for buying and selling advertising on national broadcast television. We are expanding our television audience measurement to incorporate viewing of video-on-demand and from connected devices such as gaming consoles. We are developing and testing ways to measure how consumers watch video on tablets and other devices, to help advertising and programmers incorporate this viewing behavior into their programming and advertising plans. In the U.S., we utilize a single-source TV and PC panel to provide information to clients about simultaneous usage of more than one screen (e.g. if a consumer uses Facebook while watching a TV program), unduplicated reach (i.e. total audience net of duplication across platforms), cause and effect analysis (e.g. if a TV advertisement spurs a consumer to view a specific website online) and program viewing behavior (e.g. what platforms consumers use to view certain programming). We are working with Twitter to establish a measurement of consumer interaction with television programming and social media to address the growing interest in social TV among advertisers and media players.  

We measure television viewing in 32 countries outside the United States, including Australia, Indonesia, Italy and South Korea. The international television audience measurement industry operates on a different model than in the United States. In many international markets, a joint industry committee of broadcasters in each individual country selects a single official audience measurement provider, which is designated the “currency” through an organized bidding process that is typically revisited every several years. We have strong relationships in these countries and see a significant opportunity to expand our presence into additional countries around the world.  

Digital Audience Measurement Services  

We are a global provider of digital media and market research, audience analytics and social media measurement. We employ a variety of measurement offerings to provide online publishers, internet and media companies, marketers and retailers with metrics to better understand the behavior of online audiences. Our online measurement services have a presence in more than 40 countries including the United States, South Korea and Brazil – markets that account for approximately almost 75% of global internet users. Through a combination of patented panel and census data collection methods, we monitor and measure the internet surfing, online buying and video viewing (including television content) of digital audiences. We provide critical advertising metrics such as audience demographics, page and ad views, and time spent. Through our social media monitoring capabilities, 50 million new social media messages are collected every day from more than 30 countries in 15 languages, representing a 30% year over year growth in data collection. As newer forms of digital media such as video advertising, social media and applications become a greater proportion of consumer behavior, we are transitioning our portfolio of online services, including discontinuation of certain legacy services in certain markets and the launch of other services, to address the evolving requirements of measuring digital audiences and better serve our clients.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Mobile Measurement Services  

We provide independent measurement and consumer research for telecom and media companies in the mobile telecommunications industry. Clients, principally mobile carriers and device manufacturers, rely upon our data to make consumer marketing, competitive strategy and resource allocation decisions. In the United States, our metrics are a leading indicator for market share, customer satisfaction, device share, service quality, revenue share, content audience and other key performance indicators. We also benchmark the end-to-end consumer experience to pinpoint problem areas in the service delivery chain, track key performance metrics for mobile devices and identify key market opportunities (e.g., demand tracking for device features and services). To address the rapid growth of mobile internet consumption, we are expanding our capabilities to capture internet, video and other media on mobile devices. As mobile adoption continues globally, there is an opportunity for us to measure media and data content on mobile devices worldwide and to incorporate mobile measurement into a more comprehensive view of consumer media behavior. We offer mobile measurement services in 30 countries worldwide, including the United States, where we are a leader in the nascent market for mobile audience measurement, and are focused on expanding our presence in other markets.  

Advertiser Solutions  

We provide a range of solutions to major advertisers, whether they are consumer packaged goods manufacturers, retailers, media companies, or other verticals such as automotive, telecom or financial services, to help validate and optimize their advertising spend. We quantify the effectiveness of advertising by reporting behavioral observations, attitudinal changes and actual offline purchase activity. We offer services specific to television, digital and social marketing to determine “resonance” or impact of specific campaigns, by measuring objectives such as breakthrough, brand recall, purchase intent and effect on product and brand loyalty. These services can also help clients determine which elements of their advertising campaigns are more or less effective, including frequency of repetition, length of commercial and context. As part of these efforts, we collect and analyze more than 20 million surveys annually to provide important insights on television and online advertising and content effectiveness.  

We also combine intelligence on what consumers watch and buy to inform client decisions on their advertising spend. We integrate data from our Buy segment and other third party sources including our Nielsen Catalina Solutions joint venture, with Watch data on audience exposure to help assess the effect of an advertising campaign on purchase activity. We believe these and other offerings of consumer behavior data and marketing insights can provide value to advertisers as well as media content owners and distributors, and help these clients answer some of their most important marketing questions.  

Expositions  

In our Expositions segment, we operate one of the largest portfolios of business-to-business trade shows and conference events in the United States. Each year, we produce more than 60 trade shows and conference events, which in 2012 connected approximately 335,000 buyers and sellers across 9 diversified and vibrant end markets. Our leading events include the Hospitality Design Conference and Expo, the Kitchen/Bath Industry Show, the ASD Merchandise Shows, the JA International Jewelry Summer and Winter Shows and the Interbike International Bike Show and Expo. For the year ended December 31, 2012, revenues from our Expositions segment represented approximately 3% of our consolidated revenue.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Competitive Advantages  

We are faced with a number of competitors in the markets in which we operate. Some of our competitors in each market may have substantially greater financial marketing and other resources than we do and may benefit from other competitive advantages. See “ – Competitive Landscape” and “Risk Factors – We face competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.”  

Notwithstanding the challenges presented by the competitive landscape, we believe that we have several competitive advantages, including the following:  

Global Scale and Brand. We provide a breadth of information and insights about the consumer in approximately 100 countries. In our Buy segment, we track billions of sales transactions per month in retail outlets in approximately 100 countries around the world. We also have approximately 250,000 household panelists across 26 countries. In our Watch segment, our ratings are the primary metrics used to determine the value of programming and advertising in the U.S. total television advertising marketplace, which was approximately $76 billion in 2011 according to Veronis Suhler Stevenson. We believe our footprint, neutrality, credibility and leading market positions will continue to contribute to our long-term growth and strong operating margins as the number and role of multinational companies expands. Our scale is supported by our global brand, which is defined by the original Nielsen code created by our founder, Arthur C. Nielsen, Sr.: impartiality, thoroughness, accuracy, integrity, economy, price, delivery and service.  

Strong, Diversified Client Relationships. Many of the world’s largest brands rely on us as their information and analytics provider to create value for their business. We maintain long-standing relationships and multi-year contracts with high renewal rates due to the value of the services and solutions we provide. In our Buy segment, our clients include the largest consumer packaged goods and merchandising companies in the world such as The Coca-Cola Company, Kraft Foods and The Procter & Gamble Company, as well as leading retail chains such as Carrefour, Kroger, Safeway, Tesco, Walgreens, Wal-Mart Stores. In our Watch segment, our client base includes leading broadcast, cable and internet companies such as CBS, Disney/ABC, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, NBC Universal/Comcast, News Corp., Time Warner, Twitter, Univision and Yahoo!; leading advertising agencies such as WPP, IPG, Omnicom, and Publicis; leading telecom companies such as AT&T, Verizon, Vodafone, and Nokia; and leading automotive companies such as Chrysler, Ford and Toyota. The average length of relationship with our top 10 clients across both our Buy and Watch segments is more than 30 years. In addition, due to our growing presence in developing markets, we have cultivated strong relationships with local market leaders that can benefit from our services as they expand globally. Our strong client relationships provide both a foundation for recurring revenues as well as a platform for growth.  

Enhanced Data Assets and Measurement Science. Our extensive portfolio of transactional and consumer behavioral data across our Buy and Watch segments enables us to provide critical information to our clients. For decades, we have employed advanced measurement methodologies that yield statistically accurate information about consumer behavior while having due regard for their privacy. Our particular expertise in panel measurement includes a proven methodology to create statistically accurate research insights that are fully representative of designated audiences. This expertise is a distinct advantage as we extrapolate more precise insights from emerging large-scale census databases to provide greater granularity and segmentation for our clients. We continue to enhance our core competency in measurement science by improving research approaches and investing in new methodologies. We have also invested significantly in our data architecture to enable the integration of distinct large-scale census data sets including those owned by third parties. We believe that our expertise, established standards and increasingly granular and comprehensive data assets provide us with a distinct advantage as we deliver more precise insights to our clients.  

Innovation. We have focused on innovation to deepen our capabilities, expand in new and emerging forms of measurement, enhance our analytical offerings and capitalize on industry trends. For example, we are investing in advanced delivery technologies to extend the value of the full suite of our data assets for our clients. We have further enhanced our information and analytics delivery platform, Nielsen Answers on Demand, to  

8  

Table of Contents 

 enable the management of consumer loyalty programs for retailers. The 2012 expansion of our Nielsen Campaign Ratings service provides “reach” metrics for TV and digital campaign ratings, and can offer advertisers and media companies a unique measurement of unduplicated audiences for their advertising and programming across television and online viewing.  

Scalable Operating Model. Our global presence and operating model allow us to scale our services and solutions rapidly and efficiently. We have a long track record of establishing leading services that can be quickly expanded across clients, markets and geographies. Our global operations and technology organization enables us to achieve faster, higher quality outcomes for clients in a cost-efficient manner. Our flexible architecture allows us to incorporate leading third-party technologies as well as data from external sources, and enables our clients to use our technology and solutions on their own technology platforms. In addition, we work with leading technology partners such as IBM, Tata Consultancy Services and TIBCO, which allows for greater quality in client offerings and efficiency in our global operations.  

Industry Trends  

We believe companies, including our clients, require an increasing amount of data and analytics to set strategy and direct operations. This has resulted in a large market for business information and insight which we believe will continue to grow. Our clients are media, advertising and consumer packaged goods companies in the large and growing markets. We believe that significant economic, technological, demographic and competitive trends facing consumers and our clients will provide a competitive advantage to our business and enable us to capture a greater share of our significant market opportunity. We may not be able to realize these opportunities if these trends do not continue or if we are otherwise unable to execute our strategies. See “Risk Factors – We may be unable to adapt to significant technological change which could adversely affect our business” and “Risk Factors – Our international operations are exposed to risks which could impede growth in the future.”  

Developing markets present significant expansion opportunities. Brand marketers are focused on attracting new consumers in developing countries as a result of the fast-paced population growth of the middle class in these regions. In addition, the retail trade in these markets is quickly evolving from small, local formats toward larger, more modern formats with electronic points of sale, a similar evolution to what occurred in developed markets over the last several decades. We provide established measurement methodologies to help give consumer packaged goods companies, retailers and media companies an accurate understanding of local consumers to allow them to harness growing consumer buying power in fast growing markets like Brazil, Russia, India and China.  

Demographic shifts and changes in spending behavior are altering the consumer landscape. Consumer demographics and related trends are constantly evolving globally, leading to changes in consumer preferences and the relative size and buying power of major consumer groups. Shifts in population size, age, racial composition, family size and relative wealth are causing marketers continuously to re-evaluate and reprioritize their consumer marketing strategies. We track and interpret consumer demographics that help enable our clients to engage more effectively with their existing consumers as well as forge new relationships with emerging segments of the population.  

The media landscape is dynamic and changing. Consumers are rapidly changing their media consumption patterns. The growing availability of the Internet, and the proliferation of new formats and channels such as mobile devices, social networks and other forms of user-generated media have led to an increasingly fragmented consumer base that is more difficult to measure and analyze. In addition, simultaneous usage of more than one screen is becoming a regular aspect of daily consumer media consumption. We have effectively measured and tracked media consumption through numerous cycles in the industry’s evolution – from broadcast to cable, from analog to digital, from offline to online and from live to time-shifted. We believe our distinct ability to provide audience measurement and metrics across television, online and mobile platforms helps clients better understand, adapt to and profit from the continued transformation of the global media landscape.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Consumers are more connected, informed and in control. Today, more than three-quarters of the world’s homes have access to television, there are more than 2.4 billion internet users around the globe, and approximately three-fourths of the world’s population has access to a mobile phone. Advances in technology have given consumers a greater level of control of when, where and how they consume information and interact with media and brands. They can compare products and prices instantaneously and have new avenues to learn about, engage with and purchase products and services. These shifts in behavior create significant complexities for our clients. Our broad portfolio of information and insights enables our clients to engage consumers with more impact and efficiency, influence consumer purchasing decisions and actively participate in and shape conversations about their brands.  

Increasing amounts of consumer information are leading to new marketing approaches. The advent of the internet and other digital platforms has created rapid growth in consumer data that is expected to intensify as more entertainment and commerce are delivered across these platforms. As a result, companies are looking for real-time access to more granular levels of data to understand growth opportunities more quickly and more precisely. This presents a significant opportunity for us to work with companies to effectively manage, integrate and analyze large amounts of information and extract meaningful insights that allow marketers to generate profitable growth.  

Consumers are looking for greater value. Economic and social trends have spurred consumers to seek greater value in what they buy as exemplified by the rising demand for “private label” (store branded) products. For instance, in the United States, the absolute dollar share for private label consumer packaged goods increased more than $15 billion during 2009 and 2012. This increased focus on value is causing manufacturers, retailers and media companies to re-evaluate brand positioning, pricing and loyalty. We believe companies will increasingly look to our broad range of consumer purchasing insights and analytics to more precisely and effectively measure consumer behavior and target their products and marketing offers at the right place and at the right price.  

Our Growth Strategy  

We believe we are well-positioned for growth worldwide and have a multi-faceted strategy that builds upon our brand, strong client relationships and integral role in measuring and analyzing the global consumer. Our growth strategy is also subject to certain risks. For example, we may be unable to adapt to significant technological changes such as changes in the technology used to collect and process data or in methods of television viewing. In addition, consolidation in our customers’ industries may reduce the aggregate demand for our services. See “Risk Factors.”  

Continue to grow in developing markets  

Developing markets (measured in our Buy segment) comprised approximately 20% of our 2012 revenues and represent a significant long-term opportunity for us given the growth of the middle class and the rapid evolution and modernization of the retail trade in these regions. Currently, the middle class is expanding significantly each year on a global basis, with Africa, Brazil, Russia, India and China currently contributing nearly half of all global consumption growth. Key elements of our strategy include:  

   •    Continuing to grow our existing services in local markets while simultaneously introducing into developing markets new services drawn from our global portfolio;  

   •    Partnering with existing clients as they expand their businesses into developing and emerging markets and providing the high-quality measurement and insights to which they are accustomed; and  

   •    Building relationships with local companies that are expanding beyond their home markets by capitalizing on the global credibility and integrity of the Nielsen brand.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Continue to develop innovative services  

We intend to continue developing our service portfolio to provide our clients with comprehensive and advanced solutions. Key elements of our strategy include:  

   •    Further developing our analytics offerings across all facets of our client base to provide a more comprehensive offering and help our clients think through their most important challenges;  

   •    Continuing to grow our leadership in measurement and insight services related to TV, online and mobile and expanding our services in growth areas including social media to help our media clients more effectively reach their target audiences and better understand the value of their content; and  

   •    Continuing to expand our Advertiser Solutions offering, which integrates our proprietary data and analytics from both the Buy and Watch segments, by developing powerful tools to help clients better understand the effectiveness of advertising and the impact of advertising spend on consumer purchasing behavior.  

Continue to attract new clients and expand existing relationships  

We believe that substantial opportunities exist to both attract new clients and to increase our revenue from existing clients. Building on our deep knowledge and the embedded position of our Buy and Watch segments, we expect to sell new and innovative solutions to our new and existing clients, increasing our importance to their decision making processes.  

Continue to pursue strategic acquisitions to complement our leadership positions  

We have increased our capabilities through investments and acquisitions in the areas of retail measurement, international audience measurement, and advertising effectiveness for digital and social media campaigns. Going forward, we will consider select acquisitions of complementary businesses that enhance our product and geographic portfolio and can benefit from our scale, scope and status as a global leader.  

Technology Infrastructure  

We operate with an extensive data and technology infrastructure utilizing eight primary data centers in seven countries around the world. Our global database has the capacity to house approximately 36 petabytes of information, with our Buy segment processing approximately nine trillion purchasing data points each month and our Watch segment processing approximately 1.7 billion tuning and viewing records each month. Our technology infrastructure plays an instrumental role in meeting service commitments to global clients and allows us to quickly scale our services across practice areas and geographies. Our technology platform utilizes an open approach that facilitates integration of distinct data sets, interoperability with client data and technology, and partnerships with leading technology companies such as IBM, Tata Consulting Services and TIBCO.  

Intellectual Property  

Our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and all of our other intellectual property are important assets that afford protection to our business. Our success depends to a degree upon our ability to protect and preserve certain proprietary aspects of our technology and our brand. To ensure that objective, we control access to our proprietary technology. Our employees and consultants enter into confidentiality, non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements with us. We protect our rights to proprietary technology and confidential information in our business arrangements with third parties through confidentiality and other intellectual property and business agreements.  

We hold a number of third-party patent and intellectual property license agreements that afford us rights to third party patents, technology and other intellectual property. Such license agreements most often do not  

11  

Table of Contents 

 preclude either party from licensing our patents and technology to others. Such licenses may involve one-time payments or ongoing royalty obligations, and we cannot ensure that future license agreements can or will be obtained or renewed on acceptable terms, or at all.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 35,000 people worldwide. Approximately 19% of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements and an additional 12% are covered under works council agreements in Europe. We may become subject to additional agreements or experience labor disruptions which may result in higher operating costs over time. We believe that our employee relations are good.  

Competitive Landscape  

There is no single competitor that offers all of the services we offer in all of the markets in which we offer them. We have many competitors worldwide that offer some of the services we provide in selected markets. While we maintain leading positions in many markets in which we operate, our future success will depend on our ability to enhance and expand our suite of services, provide reliable and accurate measurement solutions and related information, drive innovation that anticipates and responds to emerging client needs, strengthen and expand our geographic footprint, and protect consumer privacy. See “Risk Factors – We face competition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.” We believe our global presence and integrated portfolio of services are key assets in our ability to effectively compete in the marketplace. A summary of the competitive landscape for each of our segments is included below:  

What Consumers Buy  

While we do not have one global competitor in our Buy segment, we face numerous competitors in various areas of our service in different markets throughout the world. Competition includes companies specializing in marketing research, in-house research departments of manufacturers and advertising agencies, retailers that sell information directly or through brokers, information management and software companies, and consulting and accounting firms. In retail measurement, our principal competitor in the United States is Information Resources, Inc., which is also present in some European markets. Our retail measurement service also faces competition in individual markets from local companies. Our consumer panel services and analytics services have many direct and/or indirect competitors in all markets around the world including in selected cases GfK, Ipsos, Kantar and local companies in individual countries.  

What Consumers Watch  

While we do not have one global competitor in our Watch segment, we face numerous competitors in various areas of our operations in different markets throughout the world. We are the clear market leader in U.S. television audience measurement; however, there are many emerging players and technologies that will increase competitive pressure. Numerous companies such as Kantar (a unit of WPP), Rentrak and TRA (a unit of TiVo) are attempting to measure television viewing using data received from set-top boxes of cable and satellite TV providers. Our principal competitor in television audience measurement outside the United States is Kantar, with additional companies such as Ipsos, GfK and Médiamétrie representing competitors in individual countries. Our online service faces competition in the United States and globally from companies that provide panel-based internet measurement services such as comScore, providers of site-centric Web analytics solutions, including Coremetrics, Google, Adobe and WebTrends; and companies that measure consumer generated media on the internet such as Twelvefold, Visible Technologies, and Radian 6.  

Expositions  

The trade show industry is highly fragmented with numerous competitors serving individual business sectors or geographies. Our primary competitors in this segment are Reed Expositions, Advanstar and Hanley Wood.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Regulation  

Our operations are subject to and affected by data protection laws in many countries. These laws constrain whether and how we collect personal data (i.e., information relating to an identifiable individual), how that data may be used and stored, and whether, to whom and where that data may be transferred. Data collection methods that may not always be obvious to the data subject, like the use of cookies online, or that present a higher risk of abuse, such as collecting data directly from children, tend to be more highly regulated; and data transfer constraints can impact multinational access to a central database and cross-border data transfers.  

Some of the personal data we collect may be considered “sensitive” by the laws of many jurisdictions because they may include certain demographic information and consumption preferences. “Sensitive” personal data typically are more highly regulated than non-sensitive data. Generally, this means that for sensitive data the data subject’s consent should be more explicit and fully informed and security measures surrounding the storage of the data should be more rigorous. The greater constraints that apply to the collection and use of sensitive data increase the administrative and operational burdens and costs of panel recruitment and management.  

The attention privacy and data protection issues attract can offer us a competitive advantage. Because we recognize the importance of privacy to our panelists, our customers, consumers in general, and regulators, we devote dedicated resources to enhancing our privacy and security practices in our product development plans and other areas of operation, and participate in privacy policy organizations and “think tanks.” We do this to improve both our practices and the perception of Nielsen as a leader in this area.  

Iran Sanctions Related Disclosure  

Under the Iran Threat Reduction and Syrian Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, we are required to include certain disclosures in our periodic reports if we or any of our “affiliates” knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during the period covered by the report. Because the SEC defines the term “affiliate” broadly, it includes any entity controlled by us as well as any person or entity that controls us or is under common control with us (“control” is also construed broadly by the SEC). We are not presently aware that we and our consolidated subsidiaries have knowingly engaged in any transaction or dealing reportable under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act during the year ended December 31, 2012. In addition, we sought confirmation from companies that may be considered our affiliates as to whether they have knowingly engaged in any such reportable transactions or dealings during such period and, except as described below, are not presently aware of any such reportable transactions or dealings by such companies.  

The Blackstone Group L.P., one of our Sponsors, informed us that TRW Automotive Holdings Corp., a company that may be considered one of its affiliates, included the disclosure reproduced below in its annual report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC on February 15, 2013 as required by Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act (the “TRW Disclosure”). We have no involvement in or control over the activities of TRW Automotive Holdings Corp., any of its predecessor companies or any of its subsidiaries, and we have not independently verified or participated in the preparation of the TRW Disclosure.  

 TRW Disclosure:  

 “Compliance with Government Regulations  

Pursuant to Section 13(r)(1)(D)(iii) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), we note that in 2012 certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries sold products to customers that could be affiliated with, or deemed to be acting on behalf of, the Industrial Development and Renovation Organization, which has been designated as an agency of the Government of Iran. Gross revenue attributable to such sales was approximately $8,326,000, and net profit from such sales was approximately $377,000. Although these activities were not prohibited by U.S. law at the time they were conducted, our subsidiaries have discontinued their dealings with such customers, other than limited wind-down activities (which are permissible), and we do not otherwise intend to continue or enter into any Iran-related activity.”  

13  

Table of Contents 

Recent Developments  

In December 2012, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire Arbitron Inc. (NYSE: ARB), an international media and marketing research firm, for $48 per share in cash (the “Transaction”). In addition, we entered into a commitment for an unsecured note or unsecured loan up to $1,300 million (the “Commitment Letter”) to fund the closing of the Transaction. The Transaction has been approved by the board of directors of both companies and is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory review. As of December 31, 2012, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Commitment Letter.  

In January 2013, our board of directors adopted a cash dividend policy with the present intent to pay quarterly cash dividends on our outstanding common stock. The board also declared the first quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per share, to be paid on March 20, 2013 to holders of record of our common stock on March 6, 2013. Our dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends are subject to the discretion of the board of directors.  

In February 2013, the mandatory convertible subordinated bonds were converted into 10,416,700 shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 1.8116 shares per $50.00 principal amount of the bonds.  

In February 2013, we amended our Amended and Restated Master Services Agreement (the “Agreement”), dated as of October 1, 2007 with Tata America International Corporation and Tata Consultancy Services Limited (jointly, “TCS”). The term of the Agreement has been extended for an additional three years, so as to expire on December 31, 2020, with a one-year renewal option granted to Nielsen. Nielsen has increased its commitment to purchase services from TCS from $1.0 billion to $2.5 billion (the “Minimum Commitment”) over the life of the contract (from October 1, 2007), including a commitment to purchase at least $100 million in services per year (the “Annual Commitment”). TCS will continue to globally provide Nielsen with professional services relating to information technology (including application development and maintenance), business process outsourcing, client service knowledge process outsourcing, management sciences, analytics, and financial planning and analytics. The amount of the Minimum Commitment and the Annual Commitment may be reduced on the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide Nielsen with the right to terminate the Agreement or statement of work, as applicable.  

In February 2013, the Company received the requisite lender consents to amend its Senior Secured Credit Agreement to allow for the replacement of its existing class A, B and C term loans with a new class of term loans. The amendment is expected to close during the first quarter of 2013, subject to customary closing conditions, and will be documented in an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.  

In February 2013, Venezuela devalued its currency by 32%. As the Company has operations in both its Buy and Watch segments in Venezuela, this devaluation will result in a charge of approximately $12 million in the first quarter of 2013 in the foreign exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net line in the consolidated statement of operations.  

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas  

See Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements – “Segments,” for further information regarding our operating segments and our geographic areas.  

Available Information  

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports will be made available free of charge on our website at http://www.nielsen.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Information on our website is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this report.  

14  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors