Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

You should read the following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of NASDAQ OMX in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K, as well as the discussion under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Overview  

On February 27, 2008, Nasdaq and OMX AB combined their businesses and Nasdaq was renamed The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. Under the purchase method of accounting, Nasdaq was treated as the accounting and legal acquirer in the business combination with OMX AB. We also completed our acquisitions of PHLX in July 2008, BSX in August 2008 and certain businesses of Nord Pool in October 2008. These acquisitions also have been treated as purchases for accounting purposes, with NASDAQ OMX treated as the acquirer. Additionally, we purchased a majority stake in IDCG in December 2008 and a 20% aggregate equity interest in Agora-X (13.3% in March 2008 and an additional 6.7% in December 2008). In January 2009, we acquired a 22% equity interest in EMCF and in December 2009, we entered into an agreement to increase our ownership interest in Agora-X to 85% resulting in a majority stake. The financial results of these transactions are included in the consolidated financial results beginning on the date of each acquisition or strategic initiative.  

Financial Highlights  

The comparability of our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2009 to the same periods in 2008 and 2007 is significantly impacted by our business combination with OMX AB as well as the acquisition of PHLX and our Nord Pool transaction. In our discussion and analysis of results of operations, we have quantified the contribution of additional revenues or expenses resulting from the operations of OMX, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NASDAQ OMX Commodities wherever such amounts were material. While identified amounts may provide indications of general trends, the analysis cannot completely address the effects attributable to integration efforts.  

In addition, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar impacted our operating results. Impacts associated with fluctuations in foreign currency are discussed in more detail under “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 34.5% of our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 21.2% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Swedish Krona, Euro and Norwegian Krone.  

In countries with currencies other than the U.S. dollar, revenues and expenses are translated using monthly average exchange rates. The following discussion of results of operations eliminates the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations to better measure the comparability of operating results between periods. Operating results excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations are calculated by translating the current year’s results by the prior period’s exchange rates.  

The following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the year ended December 31, 2009 when compared with the same period in 2008:  

   •    Revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased $7 million, or 0.5%, to $1,453 million in 2009, compared with $1,460 million in 2008, reflecting an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $45 million, partially offset by a $38 million increase due to operational growth. The operational growth was primarily due to:  

   •    an increase in derivative trading and clearing revenues mainly due to:  

   •    the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s derivative trading revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to five months in 2008 combined with an increase in market share; and  

42  

Table of Contents 

   •    the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX Commodities derivative trading and clearing revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to two months in 2008;  

   •    an increase in Market Technology revenues mainly due to:  

   •    the inclusion of revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008 as well as increased deliveries of market technology contracts during 2009; and  

   •    an increase in access services revenues mainly due to:  

   •    revised fees for access services and increases in customer demand for network connectivity as well as continued expansion of our co-location services and the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s access services revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to five months in 2008.  

The increase in operational growth was partially offset by a decrease in U.S. cash equity trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees due to a decrease in the number of shares matched and routed on NASDAQ’s trading system and a decrease in Issuer Services revenues primarily due to lower annual renewal fees resulting from fewer listed companies.  

   •    Operating expenses increased $30 million, or 3.7%, to $850 million in 2009, compared with $820 million in 2008, reflecting an increase in operating expenses of $63 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $33 million. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to the inclusion of OMX’s operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008, as well as the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to five months in 2008.  

   •    Net interest expense increased $27 million, or 43.5%, to $89 million in 2009, compared with $62 million in 2008, primarily reflecting a full twelve months of interest expense in 2009 for the debt outstanding related to our business combination with OMX AB compared to ten months of debt outstanding in 2008. In addition, interest expense increased due to an increase in our outstanding debt obligations related to the acquisitions of PHLX and certain businesses of Nord Pool that were completed in the second half of 2008.  

   •    Income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net was a net loss of $107 million in 2009, compared with net income of $27 million in 2008. The net loss for 2009 is primarily due to $87 million of impairment charges ($82 million on our NASDAQ Dubai investment and $5 million on our Agora-X investment), as well as a $19 million loss related to the sale of our share capital in Orc Software AB, or Orc. The net income for 2008 was primarily related to the NASDAQ Dubai transaction.  

   •    Debt conversion expense was $25 million for 2009 and was related to the conversion of most of our 3.75% convertible notes into common stock. The $25 million expense included a cash inducement of $9 million, the present value of series A convertible preferred stock issued totaling $15 million, and debt issuance and other costs of $1 million.  

   •    Asset impairment charges of $42 million in 2008 were due to a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $35 million related to a long-term available-for-sale investment security and a non-cash impairment loss of $7 million from the write-down of finite-lived intangible assets, primarily related to our insurance agency business.  

   •    Loss on foreign currency contracts, net of $58 million in 2008 was primarily related to the Nord Pool acquisition and losses on forward currency contracts used to limit our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on contracted revenue streams partially offset by gains on foreign currency contracts related to our business combination with OMX AB.  

These current and prior year items are discussed in more detail below.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Business Environment  

We serve listed companies, market participants and investors by providing high quality cash equity, fixed-income and derivative markets, thereby facilitating economic growth and corporate entrepreneurship. We also provide market technology to exchanges and markets around the world. In broad terms, our business performance is impacted by a number of drivers including macroeconomic events affecting the risk and return of financial assets, investor sentiment, government and private sector demands for capital, the regulatory environment for primary and secondary equity markets, and the changing technology in the financial services industry. Our future revenues and net income will continue to be influenced by a number of domestic and international economic trends including:  

   •    Trading volumes, particularly in U.S. and Nordic equity and derivative securities, which are driven primarily by overall macroeconomic conditions;  

   •    The number of companies seeking equity financing, which is affected by factors such as investor demand, the global economy, availability of diverse sources of financing, and tax and regulatory policies;  

   •    The ability of the credit markets to provide liquidity to our technology customers, suppliers, trading participants, and listed companies;  

   •    The financial well being of existing market participants following the financial, organizational, and operational stresses of the recent past;  

   •    The emergence of new market participants seeing opportunities in the recovering global economy;  

   •    The ability of our fixed-income issuers’ to access the credit markets;  

   •    The increasing optimism of our technology customers arising from the recent securities market rise and economic stabilization;  

   •    Continuing pressure in transaction fee pricing due to intense competition in the U.S. and Europe;  

   •    Competition for listings and trade executions related to pricing, and product and service offerings; and  

   •    Other technological advancements and regulatory developments.  

Currently our business drivers are characterized by improvement in investors’ outlook for financial institutions and global economic growth, continued declines in the levels of market volatility, emerging industry reaction to regulatory initiatives and continued rapid evolution and deployment of new technology in the financial services industry. The business environment that influenced our financial performance for the full year of 2009 can be characterized as follows:  

   •    A modestly increased pace for new equity issuance relative to 2008 in the U.S. with 67 IPOs across all exchanges in the U.S. and 33 new IPOs on The NASDAQ Stock Market. IPO activity remained severely depressed in the Nordics with one IPO on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic;  

   •    Extremely limited access to debt and equity capital for both new and established companies during the first half of the year with marked improvement over the course of the year;  

   •    A 21% reduction in activity experienced by The NASDAQ Stock Market relative to 2008 in U.S. equity matched shares, partially offset by the share volume growth of NASDAQ OMX BX. Matched share volume for all our U.S. markets declined 15% in 2009 driven by decreased trading levels resulting from diminished volatility, a loss of market share and a decline in overall activity relative to the highly elevated trading levels of 2008 due to the financial crisis;  

   •    A 0.5% decrease relative to 2008 in the number of equity transactions on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges driven by decreased participant trading in response to changed economic conditions;  

44  

Table of Contents 

   •    A 27% decrease relative to 2008 in the value of equity transactions on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges resulting from lower equity valuations, lower trading activity due to diminished volatility and the relative return of overall trading activity to levels predating the financial crisis;  

   •    A 23% decline experienced by our Nordic and Baltic exchanges relative to 2008 in number of traded derivatives contracts in equity related products (excluding EDX London Limited, or EDX, and Eurex) driven by reduced volatility and by the changed economic climate;  

   •    A 15% decrease relative to 2008 in number of cleared derivatives contracts in fixed-income related products on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges;  

   •    Intense competition among U.S. exchanges for both equity trading volume and listings, and strong competition between MTFs and exchanges in Europe for equity trading volume;  

   •    Globalization of exchanges, customers and competitors extending the competitive horizon beyond national markets;  

   •    Consolidation of major global customers as financial institutions are acquired, merged, and restructured; and  

   •    Market trends requiring continued investment in technology to meet customers’ demands for speed, capacity, and reliability as markets adapt to a global financial industry, as increasing numbers of new companies surface, and as emerging countries show ongoing interest in developing their financial markets.  

2010 Outlook  

We launched several strategic initiatives during 2009 which should benefit us during the challenging economic environment anticipated for 2010. For the second year in a row, more share value traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market than on any other single equities exchange in the world. Our platform continues to stand out as a reliable, flexible, and high capacity system delivering high levels of execution quality and speed under even the extremely demanding market conditions that existed in the first half of 2009. We continued to expand the application of our U.S. INET trading system with the successful launch of NASDAQ OMX BX equities and the re-platforming of NASDAQ OMX PHLX options in 2009. The standout performance and flexibility of our technology has enabled us to enter new markets with a low cost and highly regarded platform offering strong performance to both existing and new clients and creating additional sales opportunities to both our Transactions Services and Market Data businesses.  

Our experiences with applying INET technology to The NASDAQ Options Market, NASDAQ OMX BX equities, NASDAQ OMX PHLX options and NASDAQ OMX Europe equities form the basis for our domestic outlook for 2010. By using NASDAQ OMX high performance systems, NASDAQ OMX BX became the fastest growing U.S. stock exchange in 2009 and is currently the fifth largest U.S. equity exchange. The flexibility of INET technology has been demonstrated by its ability to power the NASDAQ OMX PHLX options market as a complementary market to The NASDAQ Options Market but at a significantly reduced technology-related cost. We intend to further leverage the flexibility of INET to launch a new equities market, subject to SEC approval, using the NASDAQ OMX PHLX license, which will prioritize trading according to price and order size, thereby offering an exchange alternative to institutional and block traders. Our investment in IDCG created an opportunity for entering the clearing business for interest rate swap products.  

In February 2010, we replaced the matching technology of the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic with the INET technology platform, thereby providing the benefits of INET to these marketplaces and demonstrating the flexibility of the INET system to power exchanges outside the U.S. We expect the extension of our world class technology systems, such as INET, across our exchanges to further enhance our competitive position and to open new opportunities for technology sales.  

45  

Table of Contents 

At the end of 2009, there were signs of a recovery in the IPO market and we expect the demand for public equity capital from companies seeking to position themselves for a return of global economic growth to power further increases in the number of IPOs. Furthermore, an improved outlook for equity investments and the number of recession-proven private companies seeking capital will add to the IPO pipeline in 2010. We continue to leverage the opportunities in market data brought about by the breadth of NASDAQ OMX’s data distribution capabilities by offering new data products to our customer base and by strengthening our direct relationships with those customers.  

We believe that the most challenging economic conditions in this cycle are behind us and the year ahead will likely prove more positive for our business drivers and our operations. We believe that our aggressive steps in meeting our cost, revenue, and technology synergies in 2008 and 2009 will enable us to benefit from improving economic conditions in 2010. We expect to further diversify our business with enhanced product offerings and/or acquisitions which are complementary to our existing businesses.  

Business Segments  

We manage, operate and provide our products and services in three business segments: Market Services, Issuer Services and Market Technology.  

   •    The Market Services segment includes our U.S. and European Transaction Services businesses and our Market Data business, which are interrelated because the Transaction Services businesses generate the quote and trade information that we sell to market participants and data distributors. Market Services also includes our Broker Services business.  

   •    The Issuer Services segment includes our Global Listing Services and the Global Index Group businesses. The companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic represent a diverse array of industries. This diversity of companies listed on NASDAQ OMX markets allows us to develop industry-specific and other indexes that we use to develop and license NASDAQ OMX branded indexes, associated derivatives and index products as part of our Global Index Group. The Global Listing Services business also includes our Corporate Services business.  

   •    The Market Technology segment provides technology solutions for trading, clearing and settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration and advisory services.  

Our management allocates resources, assesses performance and manages these businesses as three separate segments. See Note 18, “Segments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Sources of Revenues and Cost of Revenues  

Market Services Revenues  

Transaction Services  

U.S. Cash Equity Trading  

U.S. cash equity trading revenues are variable, based on service volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. We charge transaction fees for executing cash equity trades in NASDAQ-listed and other listed securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market and NASDAQ OMX BX as well as on orders that are routed to other market venues for execution.  

We credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and record the liquidity rebate as a cost of revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income. These liquidity rebates are paid on a monthly basis and the amounts due are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Also, we pay Section 31 fees to the SEC for supervision and regulation of  

46  

Table of Contents 

 securities markets. We pass these costs along to our customers through our cash equity trading fees. We collect the fees as a pass-through charge from organizations executing eligible trades on NASDAQ’s and NASDAQ OMX BX’s platforms and we recognize these amounts in cost of revenues when invoiced. Section 31 fees received are included in cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the time of receipt and, as required by law, the amount due to the SEC is remitted semiannually and recorded as Section 31 fees payable to the SEC in the Consolidated Balance Sheets until paid. Since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. As we hold the cash received until payment to the SEC, we earn interest income on the related cash balances.  

European Cash Equity Trading  

We charge transaction fees for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, as well as on NASDAQ OMX Europe. The transaction fee for executing trades on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic is charged per executed order and as per value traded. European cash equity trading revenues on NASDAQ OMX Europe are variable, based on service volumes, and recognized as transactions occur.  

U.S. Derivative Trading  

U.S. derivative trading revenues are variable, based on service volumes, and recognized as transactions occur. The principal types of derivative contracts traded on NASDAQ OMX PHLX and The NASDAQ Options Market are equity options, index options and currency options. In the U.S., we also operate NFX, which offers trading for currency futures and other financial futures.  

Similar to U.S. cash equity trading, we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity and record the liquidity rebate as a cost of revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Also, we pay Section 31 fees to the SEC for supervision and regulation of securities markets. See “U.S. Cash Equity Trading” above for further discussion.  

European Derivative Trading and Clearing  

European derivative trading and clearing revenues are also variable, based on service volumes and recognized as transactions occur. Derivative trading and clearing is conducted on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen. The principal types of derivative contracts traded are stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. On NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, we offer clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures and index options and futures by serving as the CCP. In doing so, we guarantee the completion of the transaction and market participants can thereby limit their counterparty risk.  

European derivative trading and clearing revenues also include commodities clearing revenues. NASDAQ OMX Commodities, together with third party partner Nord Pool, provides access to the world’s largest power derivatives markets and one of Europe’s largest carbon markets. NASDAQ OMX Commodities offers international derivatives and carbon products, operates a clearing business and offers consulting services to commodities markets globally. Nord Pool is responsible for exchange operations and trading activities. Our clearing revenues from trading transactions on Nord Pool are variable, based on service volumes and recognized as they are cleared. We also have clearing revenues for contracts traded on the OTC derivative market which are also recognized when contracts are cleared.  

In February 2010, the board of directors of Nord Pool exercised their put option to sell Nord Pool’s Nordic power derivatives operations to NASDAQ OMX, subject to regulatory approval. See “Acquisition of Nordic Power Derivatives Operations,” of Note 19, “Subsequent Events,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Access Services  

We generate revenues by providing market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. The type of connectivity is determined by the level of functionality a customer needs. As a result, access services revenues vary depending on the type of connection provided to customers. We provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. These participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. We also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees. Revenues for providing access to our markets, co-location services and revenues for monthly exchange membership and registration fees are recognized on a monthly basis as the service is provided. Revenues from annual fees for exchange membership and registration fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period.  

Market Data  

Market Data revenues are earned from U.S. tape plans and U.S. and European proprietary market data products.  

Net U.S. Tape Plans  

Revenues from U.S. tape plans include eligible UTP Plan revenues which are shared among UTP Plan participants. Under the revenue sharing provision of the UTP Plan, we are permitted to deduct costs associated with acting as the exclusive Securities Information Processor from the total amount of tape fees collected. After these costs are deducted from the tape fees, we distribute to the respective UTP Plan participants, including The NASDAQ Stock Market and NASDAQ OMX BX, their share of tape fees based on a formula, required by Regulation NMS that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, all quotes and trades in NYSE- and NYSE Amex-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape fees for information on NYSE- and NYSE Amex-listed securities. Revenues from net U.S. tape plans are recognized on a monthly basis.  

U.S. Market Data Products  

We collect and process information and earn revenues as a distributor of our market data. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to data distributors, who in turn sell subscriptions for this information to the public. We earn revenues primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data. U.S. Market Data revenues are recognized on a monthly basis. These revenues, which are subscription based, are recorded net of amounts due under revenue sharing arrangements with market participants.  

European Market Data Products  

European Market Data revenues, which are subscription based, are generated primarily through the sale and distribution of trading information based on data generated through trading on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic and are recognized on a monthly basis.  

Broker Services  

Our Broker Services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the Nordic market. The primary services offered are flexible back-office systems. Our services allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company’s back-office functions. Revenues from broker services are based on a fixed basic fee for administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed. Broker Services revenues are recognized on a continuous basis as services are rendered. In November 2009, we sold our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom to TD Waterhouse and recorded a gain of $5 million which is included in gain on sales of businesses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The sale of our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom will not have a material impact on our future consolidated results of operations. 

48  

Table of Contents 

Issuer Services Revenues  

Global Listing Services  

Listing Services revenues in the U.S. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. Annual renewal fees are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. Listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration. European listing fees, which are comprised of revenues derived from annual fees received from companies listed on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, are directly related to the listed companies’ market capitalization on a trailing 12-month basis. These revenues are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period.  

Global Listing Services revenues also include fees from Corporate Services which include subscription income from Shareholder.com and Directors Desk, fees from GlobeNewswire and revenues from Corporate Services Nordic. Prior to October 2009, Corporate Services revenues also included commission income from our Carpenter Moore insurance agency business. In October 2009, we sold substantially all of our Carpenter Moore insurance agency business and recorded a gain of $7 million, which is included in gain on sales of businesses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The sale of our Carpenter Moore business will not have a material impact on our future consolidated results of operations. Fee income for services other than placement of insurance coverage is recognized as those services are provided. Broker commission adjustments and commissions on premiums billed directly by underwriters were recognized when such amounts could be reasonably estimated. Shareholder.com revenues are based on subscription agreements with customers. Revenues from subscription agreements are recognized ratably over the contract period, generally one year in length. As part of subscription services, customers also are charged usage fees based upon actual usage of the services provided. Revenues from usage fees and other services are recognized when earned. Directors Desk revenues are based on subscriptions for online services for directors. Subscriptions are one year in length and revenues are recognized ratably over the year. GlobeNewswire generates fees primarily from wire distribution services, and revenues are recognized as services are provided. For our insurance agency business, commission income was recognized when coverage became effective, the premium due under the policy was known or could be reasonably estimated, and substantially all required services related to placing the insurance had been provided.  

Global Index Group  

We develop and license NASDAQ OMX branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our Global Index Group business. Revenues primarily include license fees from these branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products in the U.S. and abroad. We also generate revenues by licensing and listing third-party structured products and third-party sponsored ETFs. We primarily have two types of license agreements: transaction-based licenses and asset-based licenses. Transaction-based licenses are generally renewable long-term agreements. Customers are charged based on transaction volume or a minimum contract amount, or both. If a customer is charged based on transaction volume, we recognize revenue when the transaction occurs. If a customer is charged based on a minimum contract amount, we recognize revenue on a pro-rata basis over the licensing term. Asset-based licenses also are generally long-term agreements. Customers are charged based on a percentage of assets under management for licensed products, per the agreement, on a monthly or quarterly basis. These revenues are recorded on a monthly or quarterly basis over the term of the license agreement.  

49  

Table of Contents 

Market Technology Revenues  

The Market Technology segment delivers technology and services to marketplaces throughout the world. Market Technology provides technology solutions for trading, clearing and settlement, and information dissemination, and also offers facility management integration and advisory services. Revenues are derived from three primary sources: licensing, support and project revenues, facility management services revenues and other revenues.  

License, support and project revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by NASDAQ OMX. After we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. In order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of Vendor Specific Objective Evidence, or VSOE, of fair value for each element. When VSOE for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered.  

Many projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. We may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. Under contract accounting, when VSOE for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. We include the deferral of this revenue in other liabilities and the deferral of costs in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

When significant production, modification or customization of our software is not required, revenue and costs are recognized over the entire term of the arrangement, once the software has been delivered and services have commenced. We include the deferral of this revenue in other liabilities and the deferral of costs in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

In addition, Market Technology license, support and project revenues also include amortization of the deferred revenue related to our contribution of technology licenses to NASDAQ Dubai. See “Combination with OMX AB and Strategic Partnership with Borse Dubai Limited,” of Note 3, “Acquisitions and Strategic Initiatives,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our transaction with NASDAQ Dubai.  

Facility management services revenues are derived when NASDAQ OMX assumes responsibility for the continuous operation of a system platform for a customer and receives facility management services revenues which can be both fixed and volume-based. Facility management services revenues are recognized as services are rendered over the contract period after delivery has occurred.  

Other revenues include advisory services that are recognized in revenue when earned.  

50  

Table of Contents 

NASDAQ OMX’s Operating Results  

Key Drivers  

The following table includes key drivers for our Market Services, Issuer Services, and Market Technology segments. In evaluating the performance of our business, our senior management closely watches these key drivers.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

51  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Transactions reported to the FINRA/NASDAQ Trade Reporting Facility.  

 (2)  Includes transactions executed on both NASDAQ’s and NASDAQ OMX BX’s systems plus trades reported through the FINRA/NASDAQ Trade Reporting Facility.  

 (3)  Transactions executed on Nord Pool and reported for clearing to NASDAQ OMX Commodities measured by Terawatt hours (TWh) and one thousand metric tons of carbon dioxide (1000 tCO2).  

 (4)  New listings include IPOs, including those completed on a best efforts basis, issuers that switched from other listing venues, closed-end funds and separately listed ETFs.  

 (5)  Number of listed companies for NASDAQ at period end, including separately listed ETFs.  

 (6)  Represents companies listed on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic and companies on the alternative markets, NASDAQ OMX First North, at period end.  

 (7)  Total contract value of orders signed.  

 (8)  Represents total contract value of orders signed that are yet to be recognized as revenue.  

Segment Operating Results  

Of our 2009 revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,453 million, 67.0% was from our Market Services segment, 22.3% was from our Issuer Services segment, 10.0% was from our Market Technology segment and 0.7% related to other revenues. Of our 2008 revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,460 million, 67.5% was from our Market Services segment, 23.5% was from our Issuer Services segment, 8.2% was from our Market Technology segment and 0.8% related to other revenues. Of our 2007 revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $812 million, 65.0% was from our Market Services segment and 35.0% was from our Issuer Services segment.  

52  

Table of Contents 

The following table shows our total revenues, cost of revenues and revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 # Denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%.  

53  

Table of Contents 

MARKET SERVICES  

The following table shows total revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees from our Market Services segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

54  

Table of Contents 

 # Denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%.  

 (1)  Includes Section 31 fees of $314 million in 2009, $207 million in 2008, and $365 million in 2007. Section 31 fees are recorded as U.S. cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues.  

 (2)  Includes Section 31 fees of $14 million in 2009 and $2 million in 2008. Section 31 fees are recorded as U.S. derivative trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded in cost of revenues.  

Transaction Services  

Transaction Services revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and increased in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to increases in derivative trading and clearing revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and access services revenues. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in cash equity trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in cash equity trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees, an increase in derivative trading and clearing revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and an increase in access services revenues.  

U.S. Cash Equity Trading Revenues  

U.S. cash equity trading revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and increased in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on NASDAQ’s trading system and the average net fee per share matched on NASDAQ’s trading system. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in matched share volume on NASDAQ’s trading system due to competitive pricing and systems capacity advantages.  

U.S. cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and increased in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to declines in matched share volume on NASDAQ’s trading system, partially offset by higher Section 31 revenues due to higher rates charged by us to customers beginning in the second quarter of 2009. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in matched share volume on NASDAQ’s trading system primarily due to competitive pricing and systems capacity advantages, partially offset by lower Section 31 revenues due to lower rates charged by us to customers beginning in the first quarter of 2008.  

As discussed above, we record Section 31 fees as cash equity trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. We are assessed these fees from the SEC and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. Since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. Section 31 fees were $314 million in 2009, $207 million in 2008 and $365 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 compared to 2008 is primarily due to higher Section 31 fee rates in 2009. The decrease in 2008 compared with 2007 is primarily due to lower Section 31 fee rates in 2008.  

Liquidity rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity, decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and increased in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a lower number of shares matched on NASDAQ’s trading system, partially offset by an increase in the amount of the rebate offered to liquidity providers. The increase in liquidity rebates in 2008 was primarily due to an increase in the number of shares matched on NASDAQ’s trading system.  

Brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and decreased in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to higher Section 31 fee rates, partially offset by lower routing costs due to a decrease in the amount of volume routed by NASDAQ and lower fees incurred from NSCC. The decrease in 2008 was primarily due to lower rates charged on Section 31 fees in 2008.  

55  

Table of Contents 

European Cash Equity Trading Revenues  

European cash equity trading revenues include trading revenues from equity products traded on NASDAQ OMX Europe and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic. European cash equity trading revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a decrease in the value traded per day due to lower average market capitalization of stocks traded, partially offset by the inclusion of European cash equity trading revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008. In addition, foreign exchange negatively impacted European cash equity trading revenues by $11 million in 2009.  

U.S. Derivative Trading Revenues  

U.S. derivative trading revenues and revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s derivative trading revenues of $196 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s derivative trading revenues totaling $78 million for 2008. In addition, an increase in market share contributed to these increases.  

As discussed above, Section 31 fees are recorded as derivative trading revenues with a corresponding amount recorded as cost of revenues. We are assessed these fees from the SEC and pass them through to our customers in the form of incremental fees. Since the amount recorded in revenues is equal to the amount recorded in cost of revenues, there is no impact on our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees. Section 31 fees were $14 million in 2009 compared with $2 million 2008.  

Liquidity rebates, in which we credit a portion of the per share execution charge to the market participant that provides the liquidity, increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s liquidity rebates of $61 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s liquidity rebates totaling $17 million in 2008. The increase in liquidity rebates also was due to an increase in market share as discussed above.  

Brokerage, clearance and exchange fees increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $11 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s brokerage, clearance and exchange fees totaling $2 million in 2008.  

European Derivative Trading and Clearing Revenues  

European derivative trading and clearing revenues include trading and clearing revenues from derivative products traded on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen and also include revenues from NASDAQ OMX Commodities. European derivative trading and clearing revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to the growth in cleared energy products and the transfer of derivative volume from EDX to NASDAQ OMX. European derivative trading and clearing revenues include:  

   •    cleared energy and carbon products revenues of $35 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with $6 million for the two-month period included in 2008;  

   •    trading and clearing revenues for stock and index derivatives of $33 million in 2009 compared with $41 million in 2008;  

   •    clearing revenues from fixed income products of $13 million in 2009 and 2008; and  

   •    other revenues and fees of $6 million in 2009 compared with $4 million in 2008. During 2009, we began providing trading and clearing operations to a new Dutch trading platform called TOM, which primarily contributed to the increase in other revenues and fees.  

The above was partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $4 million in 2009.  

56  

Table of Contents 

Access Services Revenues  

Access services revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to: (i) revised fees for access services, (ii) increases in customer demand for network connectivity, (iii) continued expansion of our co-location services and (iv) the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s access services revenues of $15 million for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with the inclusion of five months of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s access services revenues totaling $10 million in 2008.  

Access services revenues increased in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to increases in customer demand for network connectivity, higher exchange and other membership fees and the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s access services revenues of $10 million in 2008.  

Market Data  

Market Data revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to a decrease in net U.S. tape plans revenues, partially offset by increases in U.S. market data products revenues and the inclusion of European market data products revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million.  

The decline in net U.S. tape plans revenues in 2009 was primarily due to a decline in NASDAQ’s trading and quoting market share of U.S. equities and a reduction in the size of the tape plans revenue pools.  

The increase in U.S. market data products revenues in 2009 was primarily due to growth of products such as the NASDAQ Global Index Data Service, which was launched in the first quarter of 2009, NASDAQ Last Sale, which was launched in the second quarter of 2008, and other proprietary data products.  

Market Data revenues increased in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to an increase in U.S. market data products revenues and the inclusion of European market data products revenues of $77 million, partially offset by a smaller decrease in net U.S. tape plan revenues.  

The increase in U.S. market data products revenues in 2008 was primarily due to revenues from OpenView Basic, which was launched in the second quarter of 2007, revenues from NASDAQ Last Sale, which was launched in 2008, and growth from other proprietary data products including TotalView, Open View and Level 2.  

Net U.S. tape plan revenues decreased in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to a decrease in our share of trading and quoting activity in NASDAQ-listed securities through the UTP Plan, partially offset by increases in our share of trading and quoting activity in NYSE-listed securities. Our tape fee revenue sharing amount allocated to UTP plan participants increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to a reduction of our percentage earned of the UTP revenue caused, in part by the Regulation NMS market data revenue allocation formula, which became effective April 1, 2007.  

Broker Services  

Broker Services revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $6 million and the sale of our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom to TD Waterhouse in November 2009.  

Other Market Services Revenues  

Other Market Services revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and decreased in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease in 2008 was primarily due to certain other market services revenues now reported as Market Technology revenues.  

57  

Table of Contents 

ISSUER SERVICES  

The following table shows revenues from our Issuer Services segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 # Denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%.  

Global Listing Services  

U.S. Listing Services Revenues  

Annual renewal fees decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a decrease in the number of listed companies on The NASDAQ Stock Market. The number of companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market on January 1, 2009 was 3,023, compared to 3,135 on January 1, 2008, the date on which listed companies were billed their annual fees. The decrease in the number of listed companies was due to 289 delistings from The NASDAQ Stock Market in 2008, partially offset by 177 new listings in 2008.  

Annual renewal fees were flat in 2008 compared with 2007. The number of companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market on January 1, 2008 was 3,135, compared to 3,193 on January 1, 2007, the date on which listed companies were billed their annual fees. The decrease in the number of listed companies was due to 348 delistings from The NASDAQ Stock Market in 2007, partially offset by 290 new listings in 2007.  

The number of listed companies as of January 1, 2009, 2008 and 2007 includes separately listed ETFs. Annual renewal fees are recognized ratably over a 12-month period.  

Listing of additional shares fees decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 as fewer companies issued additional shares in the second half of 2008 and the first half of 2009 compared to prior years. Listing of additional shares fees were flat in 2008 compared with 2007. Listing of additional shares fees are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated service period of four years.  

Initial listing fees decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and were flat in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in the number of new listings. There were 131 new listings, including 33 IPOs, during 2009 compared with 177 new listings, including 13 IPOs, during 2008 compared with 290 new listings, including 132 IPOs, during 2007. The decrease in new listings during 2009 will impact future revenues as these fees are amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated service period of six years.  

58  

Table of Contents 

European Listing Services Revenues  

European Listing Services revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a decline in the market capitalization of Nordic issuers as well as a decrease in the number of listed companies from 824 as of December 31, 2008 to 797 as of December 31, 2009. In addition, foreign exchange negatively impacted European Listing Services revenues by $4 million in 2009. Partially offsetting the decline in 2009 was an increase in revenues due to the inclusion of European Listing Services revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008. These revenues are recognized ratably over a 12-month period.  

Corporate Services Revenues  

Corporate Services revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared to 2007, primarily due to expanding customer utilization of Shareholder.com, revenues from Bloom Partners and our other corporate services. In addition, the inclusion of Corporate Services Nordic for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 contributed to the increase in 2009. Partially offsetting these increases in 2009 was a decrease in Carpenter Moore revenues primarily due to the sale of substantially all of our Carpenter Moore business in October 2009.  

Global Index Group Revenues  

Global Index Group revenues decreased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to a decrease in underlying assets associated with NASDAQ OMX-licensed ETFs and a decrease in licensed derivatives and futures volumes, partially offset by futures price increases and the inclusion of a full twelve-month period of European global index revenues compared with ten months in 2008. Global Index Group revenues increased in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to an increase in licensing fees associated with NASDAQ OMX-licensed ETFs, licensed derivatives volumes and fees and third party structured products.  

MARKET TECHNOLOGY  

The following table shows the revenues from our Market Technology segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Market Technology revenues increased in 2009 compared with 2008, primarily due to the inclusion of Market Technology revenues for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared to ten months in 2008. In addition, license support and project revenues increased primarily due to the increased deliveries of market technology contracts during 2009. Partially offsetting these increases was an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $14 million in 2009.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Expenses  

Operating Expenses  

The following table shows our operating expenses:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 # Denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%.  

Total operating expenses increased $30 million in 2009 compared with 2008 and $373 million in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase in 2009 reflects an increase in operating expenses of $63 million, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $33 million. The increase in operating expenses of $63 million in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of OMX’s operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 and the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s operating expenses for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008. The increase in operating expenses in 2008 was primarily due to the business combination with OMX and the acquisition of PHLX. Expenses for OMX and NASDAQ OMX PHLX are included since the date of each acquisition. See below for further discussion.  

Compensation and benefits expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of OMX’s compensation and benefits expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008 as well as increased compensation and stock based compensation as a result of other recent acquisitions. Partially offsetting the increase in compensation and benefits expense in 2009 was a decrease in incentive compensation reflecting stronger financial performance in 2008, as well as a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $15 million. Headcount, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest, decreased to 2,235 employees at December 31, 2009 from 2,506 employees at December 31, 2008 due to a reduction in staffing needs driven by successful integration efforts associated with our business combination with OMX AB and the acquisition of PHLX, as well as the sale of substantially all of our Carpenter Moore business and our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom in the fourth quarter of 2009.  

The increase in compensation and benefits expense in 2008 compared with 2007 was primarily due to the inclusion of compensation and benefits expense for OMX and NASDAQ OMX PHLX since the date of each acquisition, a curtailment gain of approximately $6 million recognized in 2007 as a result of the pension plan and supplemental executive retirement plan, or SERP, freeze and increased incentive compensation reflecting stronger financial performance. See Note 10, “Employee Benefits,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the curtailment gain. Headcount increased to 2,506 employees at December 31, 2008 from 887 employees at December 31, 2007, primarily due to our business combination with OMX AB.  

Marketing and advertising expense decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a reduction in media production and advertising. The decrease  

60  

Table of Contents 

 in 2008 was primarily due to reduced marketing activity, partially offset by the inclusion of OMX’s marketing and advertising expense since the date of the business combination in 2008.  

Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s depreciation and amortization expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008 and the inclusion of OMX’s depreciation and amortization expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $5 million. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to additional amortization expense for intangible assets acquired in our business combination with OMX AB, as well as the inclusion of depreciation and amortization expense for OMX and NASDAQ OMX PHLX since the date of each acquisition.  

Professional and contract services expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to expenses for consulting work performed on system upgrades, as well as the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s professional and contract services expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008. Partially offsetting these increases was foreign exchange, which had a favorable impact of $3 million in 2009, and lower costs due to cost savings programs that were put in place during 2009. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of OMX’s professional and contract services expense since the date of the business combination in 2008.  

Computer operations and data communications expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to an increase in hardware maintenance, software leases and network costs to facilitate our recent acquisitions, as well as the inclusion of OMX’s computer operations and data communications expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with ten months in 2008, partially offset by a favorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of computer operations and data communication expense for OMX and NASDAQ OMX PHLX since the date of each acquisition, partially offset by lower costs due to hardware and software leases that were cancelled in the fourth quarter of 2007.  

Occupancy expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to a charge incurred as a result of our decision to exercise our option to terminate our lease contract for space we occupy in Stockholm, Sweden before its term and our decision to vacate part of the space we occupy in Stockholm, which resulted in recording an estimated sublease loss reserve of $8 million. In addition, an increase in co-location rent and the inclusion of NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s occupancy expense for the full twelve-month period in 2009 compared with five months in 2008 contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting this increase was foreign exchange, which had a favorable impact of $2 million for 2009. The increase in 2008 was primarily due to the inclusion of occupancy expense for OMX and NASDAQ OMX PHLX since the date of each acquisition.  

Regulatory expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 and was flat in 2008 compared with 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to new regulatory fees from FINRA and an expansion of regulatory services to new markets. FINRA provides regulatory services to The NASDAQ Stock Market, The NASDAQ Options Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and the markets operated and regulated by NASDAQ OMX BX, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions.  

Merger expenses were $17 million for 2009 compared with $25 million in 2008. Merger expenses for 2009 and 2008 were directly attributable to the business combination with OMX AB and the acquisition of PHLX, but did not qualify as purchase accounting adjustments. The costs primarily included consulting and legal costs related to our integration of OMX AB and PHLX. Merger expenses in 2009 also included the expected resolution of sales and use tax exposures that existed on previous acquisitions.  

61  

Table of Contents 

General, administrative and other expense decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and was flat in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to foreign exchange which had a favorable impact of $6 million, the recognition of pre-tax gains of $4 million on the early extinguishment of debt, net of debt issuance and other costs, and an improvement in collections of bad debts in 2009, partially offset by asset retirements of $10 million in 2009 related to obsolete technology assets. See “Early Extinguishment of Debt,” of Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the early extinguishment of debt.  

General, administrative and other expense remained flat in 2008 compared with 2007 due to the inclusion of OMX’s and PHLX’s general, administrative and other expense since the date of each acquisition in 2008, offset by charges recorded in 2007 including a $20 million tax sharing payment owed to Silver Lake Partners, or SLP, pursuant to an agreement to share the deferred tax benefit on the sale of Instinet’s Institutional Brokerage division. In addition, we recorded a $6 million loss in 2007 on the early extinguishment of debt related to the repayment in full of our former credit facilities with the proceeds from the sale of the share capital of LSE. Also, in 2007 there was an additional loss of $1 million on the early extinguishment of a portion of the 3.75% convertible notes and an $11 million charge related to cancelling a clearing contract. Our single trading platform includes functionality that enabled us to discontinue the use of services previously provided under the clearing contract.  

Non-operating Income and Expenses  

The following table presents our non-operating income and expenses:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 # Denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%.  

Interest Income  

Interest income decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to lower interest rates of approximately 2% on our investments in 2009 compared with 2008. The decrease in 2008 was primarily due to lower interest rates and the use of cash to fund acquisitions in 2008, partially offset by the inclusion of OMX’s interest income since the date of the business combination in 2008.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Interest Expense  

Total interest expense for 2009 was $102 million, and was comprised of $67 million in interest expense, $13 million of non-cash expense associated with accretion of the 2.50% convertible notes, $11 million in non-cash debt issuance amortization expense and $11 million in other related fees. Interest expense increased in 2009 compared with 2008 primarily due to a full twelve-month period of interest expense in 2009 on our outstanding debt obligations related to the OMX AB business combination compared with ten months of interest expense in 2008 and additional interest expense due to our increased outstanding debt obligations as a result of the acquisitions of PHLX and certain businesses of Nord Pool that were completed in the second half of 2008.  

Interest expense increased in 2008 compared with 2007 primarily due to an increase in debt issuance amortization costs due to the draw-down of debt to fund our acquisitions compared to minimal debt issuance costs in 2007 due to the costs being included in general, administrative and other expenses as a result of the early extinguishment of debt related to the repayment in full of our outstanding debt obligations in September 2007 with the proceeds of the sale of our share capital of LSE. In addition, interest expense increased in 2008 due to a higher average outstanding debt balance, due to the draw-down of debt to fund our acquisitions, partially offset by lower interest rates.  

Dividend and Investment Income  

Dividend and investment income decreased in 2009 compared with 2008 and in 2008 compared with 2007. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a decrease in the dividend per share received from our available-for-sale investment in the Oslo Børs Exchange, or Oslo, as well as a decrease in the fair value of our government debt securities portfolio classified as trading investment securities. Lower fair values were generally related to higher interest rates in 2009 on this portfolio. The decrease in 2008 is primarily due to the absence of the ordinary dividends declared from our investment in LSE that was sold in 2007, partially offset by the dividend per share received in 2008 from our available-for-sale investment in Oslo.  

Loss on Sale of Investment Security  

In connection with our business combination with OMX AB, we acquired a long-term available-for-sale investment in Oslo. During the second quarter of 2009, we made a strategic decision to sell this investment, demonstrating our intent to no longer hold this investment, and recorded a $5 million loss, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees.  

In 2008, we recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $35 million related to this investment, which was included in asset impairment charges in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See “Asset Impairment Charges” below for further discussion.  

Gain on Sales of Businesses  

In October 2009, we entered into agreements to sell substantially all of our Carpenter Moore business. On October 2, 2009, we agreed to sell certain assets of the western region direct practice insurance brokerage business to Woodruff-Sawyer & Co. and, on October 26, 2009, we agreed to sell the eastern region insurance brokerage business to Aon Risk Services Companies, Inc. In connection with these sales, we recorded a gain of $7 million.  

In November 2009, we sold our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom to TD Waterhouse and recorded a gain of $5 million.  

Income (Loss) from Unconsolidated Investees, net  

The net loss in 2009 of $107 million was primarily due to impairment charges related to our investments in NASDAQ Dubai and Agora-X and the sale of our Orc shares. See below for further discussion. The net income in 2008 of $27 million primarily related to the NASDAQ Dubai transaction in February 2008. We contributed intangible assets and $50 million in cash to NASDAQ Dubai in exchange for a 33 1/ 3% equity stake in NASDAQ  

63  

Table of Contents 

 Dubai. One of the intangible assets contributed was the Nasdaq trade name, which had a zero carrying value on Nasdaq’s books and records prior to the transfer. As a result, we recognized a $26 million gain for the difference between Nasdaq’s carrying value and the fair value of the contributed asset on this non-monetary exchange.  

Impairment of NASDAQ Dubai  

In December 2009, we agreed to participate in the realignment of the ownership structure of NASDAQ Dubai. As part of this realignment, NASDAQ Dubai will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of DFM, a publicly traded company controlled by Borse Dubai. We will receive a 1% equity interest in DFM in exchange for our equity interest in NASDAQ Dubai. Our existing technology and trademark licensing arrangements with Borse Dubai and NASDAQ Dubai will remain unchanged. The realignment is expected to be completed during the first half of 2010 and, at that time, we may record a gain or a loss based on the then-current market price of DFM shares and the then-current carrying value of our investment in NASDAQ Dubai.  

In connection with the realignment of the ownership structure discussed above, a third-party specialist determined the fair value of NASDAQ Dubai. Based on this valuation, we determined our carrying value of NASDAQ Dubai was no longer recoverable and was in fact impaired, and wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in an $82 million pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge.  

NASDAQ OMX originally contributed intangible assets and $50 million in cash to NASDAQ Dubai in exchange for a 33 1/3% equity stake in NASDAQ Dubai in February 2008. At that time, NASDAQ OMX valued its total NASDAQ Dubai investment at $128 million. Prior to the impairment, the investment had a carrying value of $120 million.  

Impairment of Agora-X  

In December 2009, we also recorded a pre-tax, non-cash impairment charge of $5 million to write down our investment in Agora-X to its estimated fair value. In December 2009, we entered into an agreement to increase our investment in Agora-X from 20% to 85%. In evaluating the fair value of the total investment, it was determined that our carrying value of Agora-X was no longer recoverable and was in fact impaired, and we wrote down our investment to fair value which resulted in the $5 million impairment charge noted above.  

Sale of Orc Shares  

During the second quarter of 2009, we sold our shares in Orc, representing 25.25% of the share capital of Orc, to a group of Swedish and other international investors for $54 million in cash. As a result of the sale, we recognized a $19 million loss, which is net of costs directly related to the sale, primarily broker fees.  

Debt Conversion Expense  

In the third quarter of 2009, we recorded debt conversion expense of $25 million related to an inducement for conversion of most of the 3.75% convertible notes into common stock. The $25 million expense included a cash inducement of $9 million, the present value of the series A convertible preferred stock issued of $15 million, and debt issuance and other costs of $1 million. See “Conversion of 3.75% Convertible Notes,” of Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” and “Preferred Stock,” of Note 12, “Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Asset Impairment Charges  

In 2008, we recorded a non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charge of $35 million related to a long-term available-for-sale investment security. See “Financial Investments,” of Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. We also recorded a  

64  

Table of Contents 

 non-cash impairment loss of $7 million in 2008 from the write-down of finite-lived intangibles assets, primarily related to our insurance agency business. See Note 4, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Gain (Loss) on Foreign Currency Contracts, net  

The loss on foreign currency contracts was $58 million in 2008 compared with a gain of $44 million in 2007. The loss in 2008 primarily relates to a forward contract entered into to hedge the NOK cash payment for the Nord Pool transaction ($72 million) and our market technology forward currency contracts ($13 million), partially offset by gains on forward contracts entered into to hedge the foreign currency exposure on our business combination with OMX AB ($27 million).  

The gain in 2007 primarily relates to option contracts purchased to hedge the foreign currency exposure on our business combination with OMX AB ($52 million), partially offset by a loss on options contracts purchased to hedge the foreign currency exposure on our acquisition bid for LSE ($8 million).  

See Note 15, “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Gain on Sale of Strategic Initiative  

The pre-tax gain on the sale of a strategic initiative was $431 million in 2007. The gain represents the sale of our share capital of LSE and is net of costs directly related to the sale of $18 million, primarily broker fees.  

Strategic Initiative Costs  

Strategic initiative costs were $26 million in 2007. We incurred these costs in connection with our strategic initiative related to LSE, including our acquisition bid. In conjunction with the lapse of our final offers for LSE in February 2007, these costs were charged to expense.  

Income Taxes  

NASDAQ OMX’s income tax provision was $128 million in 2009 compared with $198 million in 2008, and $276 million in 2007. The overall effective tax rate was 32.7% in 2009, 38.6% in 2008 and 34.8% in 2007. The lower effective tax rate in 2009 is primarily due to reductions in valuation allowances associated with certain deferred tax assets, and reductions in current year taxes in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Offsetting these decreases is the debt conversion expense, which is not deductible for U.S. tax purposes. The higher effective tax rate in 2008 when compared to 2007 was primarily due to the other-than-temporary impairment loss of $35 million on a long-term available-for-sale investment security, which is not deductible for tax purposes.  

The effective tax rate may vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of earnings and losses. These same and other factors, including history of pre-tax earnings and losses, are taken into account in assessing the ability to realize deferred tax assets.  

We adopted ASC Topic 470.20, “Debt: Debt with Conversion and Other Options,” on January 1, 2009 and have adjusted all periods presented to reflect the tax impact on the incremental interest expense, which resulted in a change in tax expense and current and non-current deferred tax liabilities. See “ASC Topic 470.20,” of Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and “Adoption of ASC 470.20,” of “2.50% Convertible Senior Notes,” of Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

In order to recognize and measure our unrecognized tax benefits, management determines whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or  

65  

Table of Contents 

 litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. Interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense.  

NASDAQ OMX and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return, applicable state and local income tax returns, and non-U.S. income tax returns. Federal income tax returns for years 2006-2008 are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service. Several state tax returns are currently under examination by the respective tax authorities for years 1996-1998 and 2000-2006 and we are subject to examination for 2007 and 2008. Non-U.S. tax returns are subject to review by the respective tax authorities for years 2002-2008. We anticipate that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2009 will significantly decrease in the next twelve months as we expect to settle certain tax audits. The final outcome of such audits cannot yet be determined. We anticipate that such adjustments would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

In June 2009, NASDAQ OMX filed an application for an advance tax ruling with the Swedish Tax Council for Advanced Tax Rulings. The application was filed to confirm whether certain interest expense is deductible for Swedish tax purposes under legislation that became effective on January 1, 2009. We expect to receive a favorable response from the Swedish Tax Council for Advance Tax Rulings. We recorded the Swedish tax benefit as described above in our consolidated financial statements. In 2009 we recorded a tax benefit of $19 million, or $.09 per diluted share. We expect to record recurring quarterly tax benefits of $4 million to $5 million with respect to this issue for the foreseeable future.  

Net (Income) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests  

Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $3 million in 2009, compared to net income of $1 million in 2008 and was immaterial for 2007. The 2009 amount primarily reflects losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in IDCG. The 2008 noncontrolling interests amount primarily represents 1.2% of OMX income for the period February 27, 2008 to August 27, 2008 (the effective date of the purchase of the remaining minority OMX AB shares). The 2007 noncontrolling interests relate to Reuters’ investment in the Independent Research Network, a joint venture created to help public companies obtain independent analyst coverage. This investment was reduced to zero due to losses incurred at the Independent Research Network, and all losses of the Independent Research Network were recorded by us. We have discontinued the Independent Research Network’s operations.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Global market and economic conditions appear to have rebounded from adverse levels experienced earlier in 2009, and this recovery has reinvigorated financial markets. Many lenders and institutional investors have reestablished their lending practices and are now able to provide increased funding to borrowers, which has resulted in improved access to credit and positive liquidity growth. Our cost and availability of funding remain healthy and we expect to be positively impacted by continued improvements in the credit markets.  

As a result of the improvements in the credit markets, on January 15, 2010, NASDAQ OMX refinanced its existing credit facilities by issuing $1 billion of senior unsecured notes, or the Notes, and entering into a $950 million senior unsecured three-year credit facility. The new credit facility provides for an unfunded $250 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility), a $350 million funded Tranche A term loan, or the Term Loan A, and a $350 million funded Tranche X term loan, or the Term Loan X and, together with the Term Loan A, the Term Loans. NASDAQ OMX applied the net proceeds from the Notes, the $700 million funded Term Loans and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facilities in place as of December 31, 2009 and related fees. As a result, NASDAQ OMX terminated the associated credit agreement. See “Issuance of Notes, New Credit Facility, and Repayment of Existing Credit Facility,” of Note 19, “Subsequent Events,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

66  

Table of Contents 

We require cash to pay our operating expenses, make capital expenditures and service our debt and other long-term liabilities. Our principal source of funds is cash from our operations. We also have a $250 million revolving credit commitment under our January 2010 credit facility to borrow funds. In addition, we have obtained funds by selling our common stock in the capital markets and by issuing debt obligations. In order to finance our business combination with OMX AB, our acquisition of PHLX and the Nord Pool transaction, we incurred additional debt and issued shares of our common stock. See Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt obligations.  

In the near term, we expect that our operations will provide sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures and interest payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2009, our cash and cash equivalents of $594 million were primarily invested in money market funds. In the long-term, we may use both internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt and other long-term liabilities.  

Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally-generated funds include:  

   •    deterioration of our revenues in any of our business segments;  

   •    changes in our working capital requirements; and  

   •    an increase in our expenses.  

Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include:  

   •    operating covenants contained in our January 2010 credit facility that limit our total borrowing capacity;  

   •    increases in interest rates applicable to our floating rate loans under the January 2010 credit facility;  

   •    credit rating downgrades, which could limit our access to additional debt;  

   •    a decrease in the market price of our common stock; and  

   •    volatility in the public debt and equity markets.  

The following sections discuss the effects of changes in our cash flows, capital requirements and other commitments on our liquidity and capital resources.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents and Changes in Cash Flows  

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in banks and all non-restricted highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. Restricted cash, which was $60 million as of December 31, 2009 and $141 million as of December 31, 2008, is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements and is classified as restricted cash in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Non-current restricted cash, which was $50 million at both December 31, 2009 and 2008, relates to a deposit in the guaranty fund of IDCG and is classified as non-current restricted cash in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

The following tables summarize our cash and cash equivalents and changes in cash flows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Cash and cash equivalents exclude restricted cash which is not available for general use by us due to regulatory and other requirements.  

67  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 # Denotes a variance equal to or greater than 100.0%.  

Cash and Cash Equivalents  

Cash and cash equivalents increased $220 million from December 31, 2008 primarily due to positive cash flows from operating activities, partially offset by payments of outstanding debt obligations.  

Changes in Cash Flows  

Cash Provided by Operating Activities  

The following items impacted our cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009:  

   •    Net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $266 million, plus:  

   •    Non-cash items of $268 million comprised primarily of loss from unconsolidated investees, net of $107 million, depreciation and amortization of $104 million, share-based compensation of $35 million, debt conversion expense of $25 million, accretion of 2.50% convertible senior notes of $13 million and asset retirements and impairment charges of $13 million, partially offset by gain on sales of businesses of $12 million and deferred taxes, net of $10 million.  

   •    Decrease in other assets of $130 million primarily due to a decrease in restricted cash as a result of the release of NASDAQ OMX Commodities clearing capital due to changes in our clearing capital model.  

   •    Increase in Section 31 fees payable to SEC of $88 million due to higher Section 31 fees as a result of rate increases.  

   •    Decrease in receivables, net of $33 million primarily due to decreases in our transaction services trade receivables reflecting increased tape rebates, which are netted against our tape revenue billings.  

   •    Partially offset by a:  

   •    Decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $125 million primarily due to lower rebates as a result of decreased trading activity, as well as the wind-down of activities at Carpenter Moore and our Broker Services operations in the United Kingdom, which were sold in the fourth quarter of 2009.  

   •    Decrease in accrued personnel costs of $41 million primarily due to a decrease in our incentive compensation accrual reflecting stronger financial performance in 2008, as well as a reduction in the number of employees in 2009.  

   •    Decrease in other accrued liabilities of $37 million primarily due to decreases in accrued taxes as a result of payments made.  

68  

Table of Contents 

The following items impacted our cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2008:  

   •    Net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $314 million, plus:  

   •    Non-cash items of $98 million comprised primarily of depreciation and amortization expense of $93 million, loss on foreign currency contracts, net of $58 million, asset impairment charges of $42 million and share-based compensation of $26 million, partially offset by deferred taxes, net of $107 million and income from unconsolidated investees, net of $27 million.  

   •    Decrease in receivables, net of $31 million primarily due to lower Section 31 fees as a result of rate decreases.  

   •    Increase in accrued personnel costs of $21 million primarily due to additional incentive compensation reflecting stronger financial performance.  

   •    Increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses of $20 million primarily due to additional liquidity rebates from increased trade volume.  

   •    Increase in other liabilities of $18 million primarily due to additional liabilities for the NASDAQ OMX PHLX benefit plans.  

   •    Partially offset by a:  

   •    Increase in other assets of $181 million primarily due to the increase in the restricted cash balance as of December 31, 2008 due to regulatory and other requirements as a result of our transaction with Nord Pool and acquisition of IDCG.  

   •    Decrease in Section 31 fees payable to SEC of $54 million mainly due to lower Section 31 fees as a result of rate decreases.  

   •    Decrease in deferred revenue of $42 million primarily due to a decrease in the initial listing fees deferred revenue balance as a result of a decrease in new listings during 2008, as well as the amortization of OMX’s annual listing fees.  

   •    Decrease in other accrued liabilities of $9 million primarily due to a decrease in income tax payable as a result of paying the 2007 tax liability related to the sale of our share capital in LSE.  

We expect that cash provided by operating activities may fluctuate in future periods as a result of a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, share-based compensation and the timing and amount of other payments that we make.  

Cash Used in Investing Activities  

Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 is primarily due to cash used in connection with the purchase of trading securities, as well as purchases of property and equipment. Partially offsetting cash used was cash received from sales and redemptions of trading securities and our available-for-sale investment in Oslo, as well as cash received from the sale of our 25.25% equity method investment in Orc. In 2008, cash used in investing activities primarily related to our business combination with OMX AB, acquisitions of PHLX, BSX and certain businesses of Nord Pool, our purchase of a majority stake in IDCG and other acquisitions, net of cash acquired, as well as the acquisition of a 33 1/ 3% equity stake in NASDAQ Dubai and the equity stake in Agora-X, for total cash paid of $2,999 million.  

Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities  

Cash used in financing activities for 2009 consisted of $225 million in principal payments made on our Term Loan Facility (defined below under Credit Facilities) and a $71 million payment to repay in full the vendor note issued to the previous owners of Nord Pool in connection with the acquisition of certain businesses of Nord  

69  

Table of Contents 

 Pool. In addition, we repurchased $47 million principal amount of our 2.50% convertible senior notes for a cash payment of $40 million and recognized a pre-tax gain of $4 million, net of debt issuance and other costs, and made a $4 million payment on our other credit facilities in 2009. We also made a $9 million payment in connection with an inducement for the conversion of our 3.75% convertible notes. For further discussion of the $9 million inducement payment, see Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” and “Preferred Stock,” of Note 12, “Stockholders’ Equity,” to the consolidated financial statements. In 2008, cash provided by financing activities consisted of the proceeds from the issuance of $475 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% convertible senior notes and $2,000 million in senior secured indebtedness under our Credit Facilities. See “Credit Facilities” below for further discussion. The 2008 proceeds from the 2.50% convertible senior notes and Credit Facilities were partially offset by the refinancing of $353 million of OMX AB outstanding debt obligations at the time of the business combination. In addition, we made a $75 million principal payment in 2008 on our Term Loan Facility.  

Capital Resources and Working Capital  

Working capital (calculated as current assets less current liabilities) was $587 million at December 31, 2009, compared with $351 million at December 31, 2008, an increase of $236 million, or 67.2%. We have historically been able to generate sufficient funds from operations to meet working capital requirements. At December 31, 2009, we had total contractual debt obligations of $2,146 million, of which $225 million is due within one year. See below for further discussion.  

3.75% Convertible Notes due 2012  

In 2009, most of the holders of our outstanding 3.75% convertible notes agreed to convert their remaining outstanding notes into common stock in accordance with the terms of the notes, which resulted in the issuance of an aggregate of 8,246,680 shares of our common stock. See “Conversion of 3.75% Convertible Notes,” of Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013  

In the first quarter of 2008, in connection with the business combination with OMX AB, we completed the offering of $475 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2013. In 2009, we repurchased $47 million principal amount of the notes for a cash payment of $40 million and recognized a pre-tax gain on the early extinguishment of debt of $4 million, net of debt issuance and other costs of $0.8 million. These gains were recorded in general, administrative and other expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The aggregate principal amount outstanding on these notes as of December 31, 2008 was $475 million. As a result of the repurchase, the remaining aggregate principal amount outstanding on these notes as of December 31, 2009 was $428 million. It is our intent and policy to settle the principal amount of the notes in cash and we are permitted to settle the conversion premium in shares of our common stock or cash.  

Credit Facilities  

In connection with the business combination with OMX AB, on February 27, 2008, NASDAQ OMX entered into a credit agreement which provided for up to $2,075 million of senior secured loans, which included (i) a five-year, $2,000 million senior secured term loan facility, or the Term Loan Facility, which consisted of (a) a $1,050 million term loan facility allocated to the OMX AB business combination; (b) a $650 million term loan facility allocated to the acquisition of PHLX, and (c) a $300 million term loan facility allocated to the Nord Pool transaction, and (ii) a five-year, $75 million senior secured revolving credit facility, with a letter of credit subfacility and swingline loan subfacility, or the Revolving Credit Facility, and together with the Term Loan Facility, the Credit Facilities. The Revolving Credit Facility was undrawn as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. Total debt obligations outstanding under the Credit Facilities were $1,700 million at December 31, 2009 and $1,925 million at December 31, 2008.  

70  

Table of Contents 

Under the provisions of our Credit Facilities, we were required to maintain approximately 30% of our debt structure on a fixed rate basis for two years from the date of the credit agreement. As such, in August 2008, we entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $200 million of funds borrowed under our Credit Facilities, which was floating rate debt, to a fixed rate basis through August 2011. The interest rate swap was fixed to a base rate of 3.73% plus the current credit spread of 200 basis points as of December 31, 2009. The credit spread (not to exceed 200 basis points) was subject to change based upon the leverage ratio in accordance with the Credit Facilities. In connection with the repayment of our Credit Facilities in January 2010, we terminated these float-to-fixed interest rate swaps. See “Interest Rate Swaps,” of Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” “Cash Flow Hedges,” of Note 15, “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities,” and “Issuance of Notes, New Credit Facility, and Repayment of Existing Credit Facility,” of Note 19, “Subsequent Events,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

As stated above, on January 15, 2010, NASDAQ OMX issued $1 billion of senior Notes and entered into a $950 million senior unsecured three-year credit facility which provides for an unfunded $250 million revolving credit commitment (including a swingline facility and letter of credit facility), and $700 million of funded Term Loans. NASDAQ OMX applied the net proceeds from the Notes, the $700 million funded Term Loans and cash on hand to repay all amounts outstanding under our Credit Facilities and related fees. As a result, NASDAQ OMX terminated the associated credit agreement. See “Issuance of Notes, New Credit Facility, and Repayment of Existing Credit Facility,” of Note 19, “Subsequent Events,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

We have other credit facilities related to our clearinghouses in order to meet liquidity and regulatory requirements. These credit facilities, which are available in multiple currencies, primarily Swedish Krona and U.S. dollar, totaled $417 million ($185 million which is available to be pledged as collateral and $232 million to satisfy regulatory requirements), none of which was drawn at December 31, 2009.  

At December 31, 2008, these credit facilities totaled $246 million, of which $4 million was drawn. Amounts drawn are included in other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

At December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with the covenants of all of our debt obligations.  

NASDAQ OMX’s corporate debt was recently upgraded by S&P in January 2010 (BBB) and Moody’s in November 2009 (Baa3).  

See Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our 3.75% convertible notes, 2.50% convertible senior notes and Credit Facilities.  

Broker-Dealer Net Capital Requirements  

Our broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services, are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with minimum capital requirements. At December 31, 2009, Nasdaq Execution Services was required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $8.9 million, or $8.6 million in excess of the minimum amount required. At December 31, 2009, NASDAQ Options Services was also required to maintain minimum net capital of $0.3 million and had total net capital of approximately $4.5 million, or $4.2 million in excess of the minimum amount required.  

Other Capital Requirements  

NASDAQ Options Services is also required to maintain a $2.0 million minimum level of net capital under our clearing arrangement with the OCC.  

71  

Table of Contents 

Derivative Clearing Operations Regulatory Capital Requirements  

We are required to maintain minimum levels of regulatory capital for our clearing operations for NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, NASDAQ OMX Commodities and IDCG. The level of regulatory capital required to be maintained is dependent upon many factors, including market conditions and creditworthiness of the counterparty. At December 31, 2009, we were required to maintain regulatory capital of $263 million which is comprised of:  

   •    $30 million of restricted cash;  

   •    $50 million of non-current restricted cash; and  

   •    $183 million primarily in Swedish government debt securities. These securities are included in financial investments, at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2009.  

In addition, we have available credit facilities of $232 million which can be utilized to satisfy our regulatory capital requirements.  

OMX AB Share Purchase  

On August 27, 2008, through compulsory acquisition procedures under Swedish law, NASDAQ OMX received advanced title for the remaining 1.2% of OMX AB shares held by OMX AB shareholders for an aggregate consideration of SEK 370.8 million ($61.7 million at August 27, 2008). As a result of the compulsory acquisition procedures, OMX AB is now wholly-owned by NASDAQ OMX. The additional purchase price for the shares acquired was included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008. In accordance with the compulsory acquisition procedures, NASDAQ OMX was required to maintain cash amounts greater than the total amount due, and as such, segregated SEK 440 million ($73.2 million as of August 27, 2008) in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2008. In February 2009, NASDAQ OMX paid the full liability of SEK 370.8 million ($41 million at February 28, 2009) plus interest to holders of the remaining 1.2% of OMX AB shares.  

Contractual Obligations and Contingent Commitments  

NASDAQ OMX has contractual obligations to make future payments under debt obligations by contract maturity, minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases, net and other obligations. The following table shows these contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Our debt obligations include both principal and interest obligations. The interest on our Credit Facilities reflects the net interest payment after consideration of interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $200 million of our Credit Facility to fixed rate debt. See Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. A weighted-average interest rate of 2.64% at December 31, 2009 was used to compute the amount of the contractual obligations for interest on our Credit Facilities. The 2.50% convertible senior notes contractual obligation for interest was calculated on a 360 day basis at the contractual fixed rate of 2.50% multiplied by the aggregate principal amount of $428 million at December 31, 2009. As noted above, all amounts outstanding under our Credit Facilities were repaid in January 2010.  

72  

Table of Contents 

As a result of the repayment of our Credit Facilities and the issuance of our new Notes and Term Loans, our debt obligations by contract maturity will be as follows: Total, $2,645 million; less than 1 year, $146 million; 1-3 years, $425 million; 3-5 years, $889 million; and more than 5 years, $1,185 million. The interest on the Notes was calculated on a 360-day basis at the contractual fixed rates multiplied by the aggregate principal amounts. A rate of 2.23% was utilized to compute the interest on the Term Loans.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Brokerage Activities  

Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services provide guarantees to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under their standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members. If a member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to the clearinghouses, other members would be required to meet its shortfalls. To mitigate these performance risks, the exchanges and clearinghouses often require members to post collateral as well as meet certain minimum financial standards. Nasdaq Execution Services’ and NASDAQ Options Services’ maximum potential liability under these arrangements cannot be quantified. However, we believe that the potential for Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely. Accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for these arrangements.  

Guarantees Issued, Credit Facilities Available and Collateral Received for Clearing Operations  

Through our clearing operations in the derivative markets of NASDAQ OMX Commodities, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and IDCG, we are the legal counterparty for each derivative position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. We are required to pledge collateral for commitments with other clearinghouses. The amount of these commitments is calculated on the gross exposure between the clearinghouses. As collateral for these obligations, we have obtained financial guarantees and credit facilities which are guaranteed by us through counter indemnities. At December 31, 2009, financial guarantees pledged as collateral totaled $4 million. Credit facilities available to be pledged as collateral totaled $185 million, none of which was utilized as of December 31, 2009.  

In addition, we obtained credit facilities to satisfy regulatory requirements totaling $232 million, none of which has been utilized as of December 31, 2009.  

At December 31, 2008, these credit facilities totaled $246 million, of which $4 million was drawn. Amounts drawn are included in other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

We require our customers to pledge collateral and meet certain minimum financial standards to mitigate the risk if they become unable to satisfy their obligations. Total customer pledged collateral with NASDAQ OMX Commodities and NASDAQ OMX Stockholm was $6.1 billion at December 31, 2009 and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2008. This pledged collateral is held by a custodian bank. Since these funds are not held by NASDAQ OMX Commodities and NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and they are not available for our use, we do not receive any interest income on these funds. Customer pledged cash collateral held by IDCG was $3 million at December 31, 2009 and is included in restricted cash with an offsetting liability included in other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as the risks and rewards of collateral ownership, including interest, belongs to IDCG.  

We believe that the potential for us to be required to make payments under these arrangements is mitigated through the pledged collateral and our risk management policies. Accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for these arrangements.  

73  

Table of Contents 

Other Guarantees  

We have provided other guarantees as of December 31, 2009 of $30 million, primarily related to obligations for our rental and leasing contracts. In addition, for certain Market Technology contracts, we have performance guarantees of $5 million related to the delivery of software technology and support services. We have received financial guarantees from various financial institutions to support these guarantees. These guarantees totaled $31 million at December 31, 2008.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

As a result of our operating and financing activities, we are exposed to market risks such as interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, equity risk and credit risk.  

We have implemented policies and procedures to measure, manage, monitor and report risk exposures, which are reviewed regularly by management and the board of directors. We identify risk exposures and monitor and manage such risks on a daily basis.  

We perform sensitivity analyses to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have. We may use derivative instruments solely to hedge financial risks related to our financial positions or risks that are incurred during the normal course of business. We do not use derivative instruments for speculative purposes.  

Interest Rate Risk  

The majority of our financial assets and liabilities are based on floating rates and fixed rates with an outstanding maturity or reset date falling in less than one year. The following table summarizes our significant exposure to interest rate risk as of December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Includes floating rate and fixed interest rates with a maturity or reset date due within 12 months.  

 (2)  Represents total contractual debt obligations.  

 (3)  Annualized impact of a 100 basis point parallel adverse shift in the yield curve.  

 (4)  Financial assets primarily consist of our Swedish government debt securities, which are classified as trading investment securities, with an average duration of 2.67 years. See Note 14, “Fair Value of Financial Instruments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

 (5)  Financial liabilities include $200 million of our Credit Facilities which were swapped to fixed rate using float-to-fixed interest rate swaps in the third quarter of 2008. In connection with the repayment of our Credit Facilities in January 2010, we terminated these float-to-fixed interest rate swaps. See “Interest Rate Swaps,” of Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” “Cash Flow Hedges,” of Note 15, “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities,” and “Issuance of Notes, New Credit Facility, and Repayment of Existing Credit Facility,” of Note 19, “Subsequent Events,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

We are exposed to cash flow risk on floating rate positions. When interest rates on financial assets of floating rate positions decrease, net interest income decreases. When interest rates on financial liabilities of floating rate positions increase, net interest expense increases. Based on December 31, 2009 positions, each 1.0% change in interest rates on our net floating rate positions would impact annual pre-tax income negatively by $15 million in total as reflected in the table above.  

74  

Table of Contents 

We are exposed to price risk on our fixed rate financial investments, which total $233 million at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2009, these fixed rate positions have an average outstanding maturity or reset date falling in more than one year. A shift of 1.0% of the interest rate curve would in aggregate impact the fair value of these positions by approximately $6 million. The average duration of the portfolio was 2.67 years. The net effect of such a yield curve shift, taking into account the change in fair value and the increase in interest income, would impact annual pre-tax income negatively by $4 million.  

The aggregate impact of a 100 basis point adverse shift in interest rates on our fixed and floating rate positions as of December 31, 2008 would have been $16 million.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

As an international company, we are subject to currency translation risk. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 34.5% of our revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and 21.2% of our operating income were derived in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Swedish Krona, Euro and Norwegian Krone.  

Our primary exposure to foreign denominated revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating income for the year ended December 31, 2009 is presented in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 # Represents multiple foreign currency rates.  

For the year ended December 31, 2008, our primary exposures to foreign currencies were to the Swedish Krona, Euro and Danish Krone. The average foreign currency exchange rate to the U.S. dollar in 2008 was 0.1516 for the Swedish Krona, 1.4712 for the Euro, and 0.1963 for the Danish Krone. Of our total consolidated operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008, 2% was denominated in Swedish Krona, 19% in Euros, and 2% in Danish Krones.  

Equity Risk  

Our investments in foreign subsidiaries are exposed to volatility in currency exchange rates through translation of the foreign subsidiaries’ net assets or equity to U.S. dollars. Our primary exposure to this equity risk as of December 31, 2009 is presented by foreign currency in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

75  

Table of Contents 

The aggregate impact on our consolidated equity of a 10% decline in the Swedish Krona, Euro, Norwegian Krone and Danish Krone as of December 31, 2008 would have been $49 million.  

Credit Risk  

We are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We limit our exposure to credit risk by rigorously selecting the counterparties with which we make investments and execute agreements. The financial investment portfolio objective is to invest in securities to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. Credit risk associated with investments is minimized substantially by ensuring that these financial assets are placed with governments, well-capitalized financial institutions and other creditworthy counterparties.  

Our subsidiaries Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the clearing and routing services they provide for our trading customers. System trades in equities routed to other market centers for members of The NASDAQ Stock Market are cleared by Nasdaq Execution Services, as a member of the NSCC. System trades in derivative contracts executed in the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by NASDAQ Options Services, as a member of the OCC.  

Pursuant to the rules of the NSCC and Nasdaq Execution Services’ clearing agreement, Nasdaq Execution Services is liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. Pursuant to the rules of the OCC and NASDAQ Options Services’ clearing agreement, NASDAQ Options Services is also liable for any losses incurred due to a counterparty or a clearing agent’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. Adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. However, we believe that the risk of material loss is limited, as Nasdaq Execution Services’ and NASDAQ Options Services’ customers are not permitted to trade on margin and NSCC and OCC rules limit counterparty risk on self-cleared transactions by establishing credit limits and capital deposit requirements for all brokers that clear with NSCC and OCC. Historically, neither Nasdaq Execution Services nor NASDAQ Options Services has incurred a liability due to a customer’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations as counterparty to a system trade. Credit difficulties or insolvency or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions.  

Through our clearing operations in the derivative markets with NASDAQ OMX Commodities, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and IDCG, we are the legal counterparty for each derivative position traded and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. We are required to pledge collateral for commitments with other clearinghouses. See “Guarantees Issued, Credit Facilities Available and Collateral Received for Clearing Operations,” of “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements,” above for further discussion.  

We also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. Our potential exposure to credit losses on these transactions is represented by the receivable balances in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets.  

On an ongoing basis we review and evaluate changes in the status of our counterparty’s creditworthiness. Credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.  

76  

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The following critical accounting policies are based on, among other things, judgments and assumptions made by management that include inherent risk and uncertainties. Management’s estimates are based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Revenue Recognition  

Issuer Services Revenues  

Global Listing Services  

Listing Services revenues in the U.S. include annual renewal fees, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees. Annual renewal fees do not require any judgments or assumptions by management as these amounts are recognized ratably over the following 12-month period. However, listing of additional shares fees and initial listing fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over estimated service periods, which are four and six years, respectively, based on our historical listing experience and projected future listing duration.  

Market Technology Revenues  

Market Technology revenues are derived from three primary sources: licensing, support and project revenues, facility management services revenues and other revenues.  

License, support and project revenues are derived from the system solutions developed and sold by NASDAQ OMX. After we have developed and sold a system solution, the customer licenses the right to use the software and may require post contract support and other services. In order to recognize revenues associated with each individual element of a multiple-element sales arrangement separately, we are required to establish the existence of VSOE of fair value for each element. When VSOE for individual elements of an arrangement cannot be established, revenue is generally deferred and recognized over either the final element of the arrangement or the entire term of the arrangement for which the services will be delivered.  

Many projects involve individual adaptations to the specific requirements of the customer, such as those relating to functionality and capacity. We may customize our software technology and make significant modifications to the software to meet the needs of our customers, and as such, we account for these arrangements under contract accounting. Under contract accounting, when VSOE for valuing certain elements of an arrangement cannot be established, total revenues, as well as costs incurred, are deferred until the customization and significant modifications are complete and are then recognized over the post contract support period. We include the deferral of this revenue in other liabilities and the deferral of costs in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

When significant production, modification or customization of our software is not required, revenue and costs are recognized over the entire term of the arrangement, once the software has been delivered and services have commenced. We include the deferral of this revenue in other liabilities and the deferral of costs in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

77  

Table of Contents 

Reserve for Bad Debts  

The reserve for bad debts is maintained at a level that management believes to be sufficient to absorb estimated losses in the accounts receivable portfolio. The reserve is increased by the provision for bad debts which is charged against operating results and decreased by the amount of charge-offs, net of recoveries. The amount charged against operating results is based on several factors including, but not limited to, a continuous assessment of the collectability of each account, the length of time a receivable is past due and our historical experience with the particular customer. In circumstances where a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations is known (i.e., bankruptcy filings), we record a specific provision for bad debts against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount we reasonably believe will be collected. Due to changing economic, business and market conditions, we review the reserve for bad debts monthly and make changes to the reserve through the provision for bad debts as appropriate. If circumstances change (i.e., higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer’s ability to pay), our estimates of recoverability could be reduced by a material amount.  

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets and Related Impairment  

Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. As of December 31, 2009, goodwill totaled $4.8 billion and indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $0.9 billion. The determination of the value of such goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. Goodwill for our three reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value may be impaired. We test for impairment during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using October 1st carrying values. We assess potential impairments to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. For goodwill, if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying value. For indefinite-lived intangible assets, impairment exists if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. Considerable management judgment is necessary to evaluate the impact of operating and macroeconomic changes and to estimate cash flows. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are based on operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions, relevant trading multiples of comparable companies, the trading price of our common stock and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. However, disruptions to our business such as continued economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, may result in our having to perform an impairment test for goodwill for some or all of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets prior to the required annual assessment. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges in the future. As of December 31, 2009, there were no reporting units deemed to be at risk of failing the goodwill impairment test. Also, we do not have any indefinite-lived intangible assets at risk of failing our impairment test. There have been no significant events since the timing of our impairment tests that would have triggered additional impairment testing. No impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets were recorded in 2009, 2008 or 2007.  

Other Long-Lived Assets and Related Impairment  

We also assess potential impairments to our other long-lived assets, including finite-lived intangible assets, equity method investments, property and equipment and other assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. The carrying amount of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. We evaluate our equity method investments  

78  

Table of Contents 

 for other-than-temporary declines in value by considering a variety of factors such as the earnings capacity of the investment and the fair value of the investment compared to its carrying amount. In addition, for investments where the market value is readily determinable, we consider the underlying stock price as an additional factor. Any required impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the related asset and a charge to operating results. In 2009, we recorded losses of $87 million due to impairment charges related to NASDAQ Dubai and Agora-X. These charges were included in income (loss) from unconsolidated investees, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 5, “Equity Method Investments,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In 2008, we recorded an impairment loss of finite-lived intangible assets of $7 million primarily related to our insurance agency business, which was part of Corporate Services within our Issuer Services segment. This charge was included in asset impairment charges in the Consolidated Statements of Income. See Note 4, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. No other impairments of long-lived assets were recorded in 2009, 2008 or 2007.  

Amortization Periods of Intangible Assets with Finite-Lives  

Intangible assets, net, primarily include exchange and clearing registrations, customer relationships, trade names, licenses and technology. Intangible assets with finite-lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated average useful lives as follows:  

   •    Technology: 1.5—10 years  

   •    Customer relationships: 10—30 years  

   •    Other: 1—10 years  

The estimated useful life of developed and new technology is based on the likely duration of benefits to be derived from the technology. We consider such factors as the migration cycle for re-platforming existing technologies and the development of future generations of technology. We also give consideration to the pace of the technological changes in the industries in which we sell our products.  

The estimated useful life of customer relationships is determined based on an analysis of the historical attrition rates of customers and an analysis of the legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic, or other factors that limit the useful life of customer relationships.  

See Note 3, “Acquisitions and Strategic Initiatives,” and Note 4, “Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of intangible assets.  

Income Taxes  

Estimates and judgments are required in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from net operating loss carryforwards, tax credit carryforwards and temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the recorded deferred tax assets will not be realized in future periods. Management is required to determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets the recognition thresholds, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. Interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters are recognized in income tax expense.  

In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent fiscal years, estimates of future taxable income and  

79  

Table of Contents 

 the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In the event that we change our determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.  

In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of tax regulations in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in such jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest may be due. While we believe that our tax liabilities reflect the probable outcome of identified tax uncertainties, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate resolution of any tax matter may be greater or less than the amount accrued. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result.  

Pension and Post-Retirement Benefits  

Pension and other post-retirement benefit plan information for financial reporting purposes is developed using actuarial valuations. We assess our pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assumptions on a regular basis. In evaluating these assumptions, we consider many factors, including evaluation of the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets, healthcare cost trend rate, retirement age assumption, our historical assumptions compared with actual results and analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations. See Note 10, “Employee Benefits,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Discount rates used for pension and other post-retirement benefit plan calculations are evaluated annually and modified to reflect the prevailing market rates at the measurement date of a high-quality fixed-income debt instrument portfolio that would provide the future cash flows needed to pay the benefits included in the benefit obligations as they come due. Actuarial assumptions are based upon management’s best estimates and judgment.  

The expected rate of return on plan assets for our U.S. pension plans represents our long-term assessment of return expectations which may change based on significant shifts in economic and financial market conditions. The long-term rate of return on plan assets is derived from return assumptions based on targeted allocations for various asset classes. While we consider the pension plans’ recent performance and other economic growth and inflation factors, which are supported by long-term historical data, the return expectations for the targeted asset categories represents a long-term prospective return.  

Share-Based Compensation  

The accounting for share-based compensation requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees based on estimated fair values. Share-based awards, or equity awards, include employee stock options, restricted stock and PSUs. Prior to October 2008, restricted stock generally refers to restricted stock awards and after October 2008, restricted stock generally refers to restricted stock units.  

We estimate the fair value of employee stock options using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Assumptions used in the Black-Scholes valuation model include the expected life of the award, the weighted-average risk free rate, the expected volatility, and the dividend yield. Our computation of expected life is based on historical exercise patterns. The risk free interest rate for periods within the expected life of the award is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Our computation of expected volatility is based on a combination of historical and market-based implied volatility. Our credit facilities restrict our ability to pay dividends. Before our credit facilities were in place, it was not our policy to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock.  

See Note 11, “Share-Based Compensation,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

80  

Table of Contents 

Software Costs  

We capitalize and amortize significant purchased application software and operational software that are an integral part of computer hardware on the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, generally two to five years. We expense other purchased software as incurred.  

Certain costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. We capitalize internal and third party costs incurred in connection with the development of internal use software.  

Under our Market Technology segment, costs of computer software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed as a separate product or as part of a product or process are capitalized after the product has reached technological feasibility. Technological feasibility is established upon completion of a detail program design or, in its absence, completion. Thereafter, all software production costs shall be capitalized. Prior to reaching technological feasibility, all costs are charged to expense. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining estimated economic life of the product and are included in depreciation and amortization expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  

Foreign Currency Translation   

Foreign denominated assets and liabilities are remeasured into the functional currency at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date through the income statement. Gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are translated using the rates on the dates on which those elements are recognized during the period, and are included in general, administrative and other expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  

Translation gains or losses resulting from translating our subsidiaries’ financial statements from the local functional currency to the reporting currency, net of tax, are included in stockholders’ equity. Assets and liabilities are generally translated at the balance sheet date while revenues and expenses are recorded at the date the transaction occurs or at an applicable average rate.  

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements   

ASC Topic 105—In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 105, “Generally Accepted Accounting Principles,” as the single source of authoritative nongovernmental U.S. GAAP. The provisions in this guidance do not change current U.S. GAAP, but are intended to simplify user access to all authoritative U.S. GAAP by providing all the authoritative literature related to a particular topic in one place. All existing accounting standard documents were superseded and all other accounting literature that is not included in the FASB Codification is considered non-authoritative. This guidance is effective for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009 and, accordingly, was effective for our annual period ended December 31, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on our financial condition or results of operations, but did impact our financial reporting process by eliminating all references to pre-codification standards.  

ASC Topic 715—In December 2008, the FASB issued new accounting guidance contained within ASC Topic 715, “Compensation—Retirement Benefits.” This guidance requires that information about pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assets be disclosed, on an annual basis, based on the fair value disclosure requirements of ASC Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures.” The guidance requires us to separate plan assets into three fair value hierarchy levels and provide a rollforward of the changes in fair value of plan assets classified as Level 3, if any. For further information on the three fair value hierarchy levels, see Note 14, “Fair Value of Financial Instruments,” to the consolidated financial statements. This guidance is effective for NASDAQ OMX’s fiscal year end 2009. Since the new provisions of this guidance require only additional disclosures about our pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assets, the adoption of the new provisions did not affect our financial position or results of operations.  

81  

Table of Contents 

ASC Topic 805—On January 1, 2009, we adopted on a prospective basis ASC Topic 805, “Business Combinations.” This recently issued guidance significantly changed how business acquisitions were accounted for and will impact financial statements both on the acquisition date and in subsequent periods requiring:  

   •    More assets acquired and liabilities assumed to be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date;  

   •    Liabilities related to contingent consideration to be remeasured at fair value in each subsequent reporting period; and  

   •    An acquirer to expense acquisition-related costs (e.g., deal fees for attorneys, accountants, investment bankers).  

The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009.  

ASC Topic 810—On January 1, 2009, we adopted recently issued accounting guidance contained within ASC Topic 810, “Consolidations,” which changed the accounting and reporting for minority interests, which are now characterized as noncontrolling interests and classified as a component of equity. This recently issued guidance requires retroactive adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements for existing noncontrolling interests. All other requirements under the new guidance have been applied prospectively. Noncontrolling interests were $17 million as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008.  

ASC Topic 815—On January 1, 2009, we adopted recently issued accounting guidance contained within ASC Topic 815 “Derivatives and Hedging,” which enhanced the disclosure requirements about our derivative instruments and hedging activities, thereby improving the transparency of financial reporting. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on our financial condition or results of operations but will impact disclosures of our derivative instruments and hedging activities. The additional disclosures required under this guidance are included in Note 15, “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities,” to the consolidated financial statements.  

ASC Topic 470.20—On January 1, 2009, we adopted ASC Topic 470.20, “Debt: Debt with Conversion and Other Options,” which is applicable to our 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2013. This guidance requires us to separately account for the liability and equity components of a convertible debt instrument in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. The guidance also requires bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and then accretion of the resulting discount on the debt as part of interest expense being reflected in the income statement.  

We have adjusted all periods presented to reflect the reclassification of a portion of the carrying value of the 2.50% convertible senior notes from debt to equity and the accretion of the debt discount as part of interest expense. The incremental effect of adopting the provisions under this guidance on our Consolidated Statements of Income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was additional interest expense of $11 million and a tax benefit of $5 million, resulting in a decrease to our net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $6 million, or $.03 per diluted share. The incremental effects of adopting the provisions under this guidance on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 are presented in the following table (in millions).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

82  

Table of Contents 

 (1)  As of December 31, 2008, the unamortized debt discount on the 2.50% convertible senior notes included in debt obligations in the Consolidated Balance Sheets was $74 million. This amount will be accreted as part of interest expense through the maturity date of the convertible debt of August 15, 2013.  

 (2)  As of December 31, 2008, the equity component of the 2.50% convertible senior notes included in additional paid-in capital in the Consolidated Balance Sheets was $51 million. This amount is calculated as follows: $85 million of excess principal of the 2.50% convertible senior notes over the carrying amount less $34 million of deferred taxes. The deferred tax liability is determined by multiplying the $85 million of excess principal of the 2.50% convertible senior notes over the carrying amount by the U.S. marginal tax rate of 39.55%.  

See Note 8, “Debt Obligations,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our 2.50% convertible senior notes.  

ASC Topic 825—On April 1, 2009, we adopted recently issued accounting guidance contained within ASC Topic 825, “Financial Instruments,” which requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments in interim as well as in annual financial statements. This recently issued guidance, which was effective for us in our interim financial reporting period ended June 30, 2009, did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, and disclosures. See Note 14, “Fair Value of Financial Instruments,” to the consolidated financial statements for disclosure about fair value of financial instruments.  

ASC Topic 855—In June 2009, we adopted ASC Topic 855, “Subsequent Events,” which provides guidance to establish general standards of accounting for, and disclosures of, events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. This guidance requires entities to disclose the date through which subsequent events were evaluated as well as the basis for why that date was selected. The guidance, which was effective for us in our interim financial reporting period ended June 30, 2009, did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, and disclosures. See Note 19, “Subsequent Events,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the subsequent events that occurred after December 31, 2009.  

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  

ASC Topic 605.25—In October 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on ASC 605.25, “Revenue Recognition—Multiple-Element Arrangements.” This guidance modifies the revenue recognition guidance for arrangements that involve the delivery of multiple-elements, such as product, software, services or support, to a customer at different times as part of a single revenue generating transaction. This standard provides principles and application guidance to determine whether multiple deliverables exist, how the individual deliverables should be separated and how to allocate the revenue in the arrangement among those separate deliverables. The standard also expands the disclosure requirements for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. This accounting guidance is effective for us beginning January 1, 2011, but may be early adopted as of the first quarter of 2010 or through a retrospective application to all revenue arrangements for all periods presented in the financial statements. We are currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, on our consolidated financial statements and timing of the adoption of this guidance.  

ASC Topic 985.605—In October 2009, the FASB amended the existing accounting guidance for how entities account for multiple-element arrangements that include both software and hardware elements, which typically resulted in the sale of hardware being accounted for under the software recognition rules. The software revenue recognition guidance in ASC 985-605, “Software-Revenue Recognition,” changes revenue recognition for tangible products containing software elements and non-software elements. The tangible element of the product is always outside of the scope of the software revenue recognition rules, and the software elements of tangible products when the software element and non-software elements function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality are outside of the scope of the software rules. As a result, both the hardware and  

83  

Table of Contents 

 qualifying related software elements are excluded from the scope of the software revenue guidance and accounted for under the revised multiple-element revenue recognition guidance discussed above. This accounting guidance is effective for us beginning January 1, 2011 with early adoption permitted. However, early adoption is permitted only when ASC 605.25 is also early adopted as of the same period. We are currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, the adoption of this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.  

Summarized Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.