ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

     RISKS RELATING TO EDISON INTERNATIONAL 

 Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and adversely affect them.  

Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulation and permitting requirements that involve significant and increasing costs. SCE and EMG devote significant resources to environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment and emission allowances to comply with existing and anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. However, the current trend is toward more stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive application of environmental regulations. The U.S. Congress is considering several proposals to regulate greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("US EPA") has issued a finding that certain greenhouse gases endanger the public health and welfare and are air pollutants that are subject to the Clean Air Act. In addition, the attorneys general of several states, including California, certain environmental advocacy groups, and numerous state regulatory agencies in the United States have been focusing considerable attention on greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants and their potential role in climate change. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement greenhouse gas controls could adversely affect operations, particularly of the coal-fired plants. The continued operation of SCE and EMG facilities, particularly the coal-fired facilities, may require substantial capital expenditures for environmental controls. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations, and future enforcement proceedings by environmental authorities could affect the costs and the manner in which these subsidiaries conduct business. Current and future state laws and regulations in California also could increase the required amount of power that must be procured from renewable resources. Furthermore, changing environmental regulations could make some units uneconomical to maintain or operate. If the affected subsidiaries cannot comply with all applicable regulations, they could be required to retire or suspend operations at such facilities, or to restrict or modify the operations of these facilities, and their business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  

41 

Table of Contents 

 Edison International may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds for an extended period to Edison International.  

Edison International is a holding company and, as such, it has no operations of its own. Edison International's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to make upstream distributions or to repay funds to Edison International. Prior to funding Edison International, Edison International's subsidiaries have financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. Financial market and economic conditions may have an adverse effect on Edison International's subsidiaries. See "Risks Relating to SCE" and "Risks Relating to EMG" below for further discussion.  

 RISKS RELATING TO SCE 

     Regulatory Risks 

 SCE's financial viability depends upon its ability to recover its costs in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates.  

SCE is a regulated entity subject to CPUC and FERC jurisdiction in almost all aspects of its business, including the rates, terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers, issuance of securities, dispositions of utility assets and facilities, aspects of project site identification and the operations of its electricity distribution systems. SCE's ongoing financial viability depends on its ability to recover from its customers in a timely manner its costs, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, through the rates it charges its customers as approved by the CPUC, and its ability to pass through to its customers in rates its FERC-authorized revenue requirements. SCE's financial viability also depends on its ability to recover through the rates it is allowed to charge an adequate return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. If SCE is unable to recover material amounts of its costs in rates in a timely manner or recover an adequate return on capital, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  

 SCE's energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity.  

SCE obtains energy, capacity, renewable attributes and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants, as well as through contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE's cash flows remain subject to volatility resulting from its procurement activities. In addition, SCE is subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance of procurement activities with SCE's procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs.  

Many of SCE's power purchase contracts are tied to market prices for natural gas. Some of its contracts also are subject to volatility in market prices for electricity. SCE seeks to hedge  

42 

Table of Contents 

its market price exposure to the extent authorized by the CPUC. SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on favorable terms or fully recover the costs of hedges through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, which could adversely affect SCE's liquidity and results of operation.  

In its power purchase contracts and other procurement arrangements, SCE is exposed to risks from changes in the credit quality of its counterparties, many of whom may be adversely affected by the conditions in the financial markets. If a counterparty were to default on its obligations, SCE could be exposed to potentially volatile spot markets for buying replacement power or selling excess power and this could have a material adverse effect on SCE's liquidity and financial condition if such costs cannot be recovered in a timely manner.  

 SCE is subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or legislation.  

SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE's business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. The CPUC regulates SCE's retail operations, and the FERC regulates SCE's wholesale operations. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission regulates SCE's nuclear power plants. The construction, planning, and project site identification of SCE's power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to the jurisdiction of the California Energy Commission (for plants 50 MW or greater), and the CPUC. The construction, planning and project site identification of transmission lines that are outside of California are subject to the regulation of the relevant state agency.  

SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE's business could be adversely affected. Existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE or SCE's facilities in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE's business or result in significant additional costs because of SCE's need to comply with those requirements.  

 Operating Risks 

 SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and improving its facilities.  

SCE owns and operates extensive electricity facilities that are interconnected to the United States western electricity grid. SCE is also undertaking large-scale new infrastructure construction, which involves risks related to permitting, governmental approvals, and construction delays. The operation of SCE's facilities and the facilities of third parties on which it relies involves numerous risks, including:   

•operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements;  

43 

Table of Contents  

•imposition of operational performance standards by agencies with regulatory oversight of SCE's facilities;   

•environmental and personal injury liabilities caused by the operation of SCE's facilities;   

•interruptions in fuel supply;   

•blackouts;   

•employee work force factors, including strikes, work stoppages or labor disputes;   

•weather, storms, earthquakes, fires, floods or other natural disasters;   

•acts of terrorism; and   

•explosions, accidents, mechanical breakdowns and other events that affect demand, result in power outages, reduce generating output or cause damage to SCE's assets or operations or those of third parties on which it relies.  

The occurrence of any of these events could result in lower revenues or increased expenses and liabilities, or both, which may not be fully recovered through insurance, rates or other means in a timely manner or at all.  

 There are inherent risks associated with operating nuclear power generating facilities.  

Spent fuel storage capacity could be insufficient to permit long-term operation of SCE's nuclear plants.  

SCE operates and is majority owner of San Onofre Nuclear Generating Station and is part owner of Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station. The U.S. Department of Energy has defaulted on its obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel from commercial nuclear industry participants by January 31, 1998. If SCE or the operator of Palo Verde were unable to arrange and maintain sufficient capacity for interim spent-fuel storage now or in the future, it could hinder the operation of the plants and impair the value of SCE's ownership interests until storage could be obtained, each of which may have a material adverse effect on SCE.  

Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident.  

Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection which is currently approximately $12.6 billion. SCE and other owners of the San Onofre and Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Stations have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of $375 million per site. If this public liability limit is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. This could include an additional assessment on all licensed reactor operators as a measure for raising further revenue. If this were to occur, tension could exist between the federal government's attempt to impose revenue-raising measures upon SCE and the CPUC's willingness to allow SCE to pass this liability along to its customers, resulting in under-collection of SCE's costs. There can be no assurance of SCE's ability to recover uninsured costs in the event federal appropriations are insufficient.  

44 

Table of Contents 

 SCE's insurance coverage may not be sufficient under all circumstances and SCE may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance.  

SCE's insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which it may be subject. A loss for which SCE is not fully insured could materially and adversely affect SCE's financial condition and results of operations. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to SCE.  

 Financing Risks 

 SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access capital markets or the cost of capital was to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations could be adversely affected.  

SCE's ability to fund operations and planned capital expenditure projects, as well as its ability to refinance debt and make scheduled payments of principal and interest depends on its cash flow and access to the capital markets. SCE's ability to arrange financing and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, including SCE's levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, its financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. Market conditions which could adversely affect SCE's financing costs and availability include:   

•current state and liquidity of financial markets;   

•market prices for electricity or gas;   

•changes in interest rates and rates of inflation;   

•terrorist attacks or the threat of terrorist attacks on SCE's facilities or unrelated energy companies; and   

•the overall health of the utility industry.  

SCE may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for these or other reasons. The failure to obtain additional capital from time to time may have a material adverse effect on SCE's liquidity and operations.  

45 

 Table of Contents  

 RISKS RELATING TO EMG 

     Environmental and Regulatory Risks 

 EME is subject to extensive environmental regulation and permitting requirements that may involve significant and increasing costs.  

EME's operations are subject to extensive environmental regulations with respect to, among other things, air quality, water quality, waste disposal, and noise. EME is required to obtain, and comply with conditions established by, licenses, permits and other approvals in order to construct, operate or modify its facilities. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject EME to civil or criminal liability, the imposition of liens or fines, or actions by regulatory agencies seeking to curtail operations of EME's projects. See "—Risks relating to Edison International."  

 The controls imposed on the Midwest Generation plants as a result of the Combined Pollutant Standard may require material expenditures or unit shutdowns.  

Midwest Generation has entered into an agreement with the Illinois EPA to reduce mercury, NOx and SO2 emissions at the Midwest Generation plants. The agreement has been embodied in an Illinois rule called the Combined Pollutant Standard. All of Midwest Generation's Illinois coal-fired electric generating units are subject to the Combined Pollutant Standard. Capital expenditures relating to controls contemplated by the Combined Pollutant Standard could be significant and could make some units uneconomic to maintain or operate. Midwest Generation may ultimately decide to comply with Combined Pollutant Standard requirements by shutting down units rather than making improvements. Midwest Generation is evaluating technology and unit shutdown combinations and compliance solutions, to determine the economic effects of compliance with the Combined Pollutant Standard and optimal methods of compliance. For more information about the Combined Pollutant Standard requirements and Midwest Generation's plans for compliance, see "Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulation of Edison International and Subsidiaries—Air Quality—Nitrogen Oxide and Sulfur Dioxide—Clean Air Interstate Rule—Illinois" and "Edison International Overview—Environmental Developments—Midwest Generation Environmental Compliance Plans and Costs" in the MD&A.  

 EME is subject to extensive energy industry regulation.  

EME's operations are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies. EME's projects are subject to federal laws and regulations that govern, among other things, transactions by and with purchasers of power, including utility companies, the development and construction of generation facilities, the ownership and operations of generation facilities, and access to transmission. Under limited circumstances where exclusive federal jurisdiction is not applicable or specific exemptions or waivers from state or federal laws or regulations are otherwise unavailable, federal and/or state utility regulatory commissions may have broad jurisdiction over non-utility owned electric power plants.  

The FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, where it determines that potential market power might exist and that  

46 

Table of Contents 

the public interest requires mitigation. In addition, many of EME's facilities are subject to rules, restrictions and terms of participation imposed and administered by various Regional Transmission Operators and Independent System Operators. For example, Independent System Operators and Regional Transmission Operators may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power and to facilitate market functions. Such actions may materially affect EME's results of operations.  

Generation facilities are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the geographical location, zoning, land use and operation of a project. EME in the course of its business must obtain and periodically renew licenses, permits and approvals for its facilities. There is no assurance that the introduction of new laws or other future regulatory developments will not have a material adverse effect on EME's business, results of operations or financial condition, nor is there any assurance that EME will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary licenses, permits and approvals for its projects. If projects cannot comply with all applicable regulations, EME's business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  

 Market Risks 

 EME has substantial interests in merchant energy power plants which are subject to market risks related to wholesale energy prices.  

EME's merchant energy power plants do not have long-term power purchase agreements. Because the output of these power plants is not committed to be sold under long-term contracts, these projects are subject to market forces which determine the amount and price of energy, capacity and ancillary services sold from the power plants. The market price for energy, capacity and ancillary services is influenced by multiple factors beyond EME's control, which include:   

•changes in the demand for electricity or in patterns of electricity usage as a result of factors such as regional economic conditions and the implementation of conservation programs;   

•weather conditions prevailing in surrounding areas from time to time;   

•the availability, reliability and operation of competing power generation facilities, including nuclear generating plants where applicable, and the extended operation of such facilities beyond their presently expected dates of decommissioning;   

•the extent of additional supplies of capacity, energy and ancillary services from current competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new generation facilities or technologies that may be able to produce electricity at a lower cost than EME's generating facilities and/or increased access by competitors to EME's markets as a result of transmission upgrades;   

•prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and associated transportation;   

•the cost and availability of emission credits or allowances;   

•transmission congestion within and to each market area and the resulting differences in prices between delivery points;  

47 

Table of Contents  

•the ability of regional pools to pay market participants' settlement prices for energy and related products;   

•the market structure rules established for each market area and regulatory developments affecting the market areas, including any price limitations and other mechanisms adopted to address volatility or illiquidity in these markets or the physical stability of the system; and   

•legal and political challenges to the rules used to calculate capacity payments in the markets in which EME operates.  

In addition, unlike most other commodities, electric power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced when it is to be used. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to significant and unpredictable price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time. Due to the volume of sales into PJM from the fossil-fueled facilities, EME has concentrated exposure to market conditions and fluctuations in PJM. There is no assurance that EME's merchant energy power plants will be successful in selling power into their markets or that the prices received for their power will generate positive cash flows. If EME's merchant energy power plants do not meet these objectives, they may not be able to generate enough cash to service their own debt and lease obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on EME.  

 EME's financial results can be affected by changes in fuel prices, fuel transportation cost increases, and interruptions in fuel supply.  

EME's business is subject to changes in fuel costs, which may negatively affect its financial results and financial position by increasing the cost of producing power. Fuel costs can be influenced by many factors outside EME's control, including weather, market liquidity, transportation inefficiencies, demand for energy commodities (both as fuel and as feedstock for manufacturing processes), natural gas, crude oil and coal production levels, natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events, governmental regulation and legislation, and the creditworthiness, liquidity and willingness of fuel suppliers and transporters to do business with EME and its subsidiaries. The fuel markets can be volatile, and actual fuel prices can differ from EME's expectations.  

Although EME attempts to purchase fuel based on its expected requirements, it is still subject to the risks of supply interruptions, transportation cost increases, and fuel price volatility. In addition, fuel deliveries will not exactly match energy sales, due in part to the need to purchase fuel inventories in advance for reliability and dispatch requirements. The price at which EME can sell its energy may not rise or fall at the same rate as a corresponding rise or fall in fuel costs. All of these factors may have an adverse effect on EME's financial condition and results of operations.  

 EME may not hedge market risks effectively.  

EME is exposed to market risks through its ownership and operation of merchant energy power plants and through its power marketing business. These market risks include, among others, volatility arising from the timing differences associated with buying fuel, converting fuel into energy and delivering energy to a buyer. EME uses forward contracts and derivative  

48 

Table of Contents 

instruments, such as futures contracts and options, to manage market risks and exposure to fluctuating electricity and fuel prices. However, EME cannot provide assurance that these strategies will successfully mitigate market risks.  

EME's hedging activities may not cover the entire exposure of its assets or positions to market price volatility, and the level of coverage will vary over time. Amounts hedged at any given time are not indicative of amounts that may be hedged in the future. Fluctuating commodity prices may affect EME's financial results, either favorably or unfavorably, to the extent that assets and positions have not been hedged. In addition, EME's risk management strategies may not be as effective as anticipated.  

The effectiveness of EME's hedging activities may depend on the amount of credit available to post collateral, either in support of performance guarantees or as a cash margin. The amount of credit support that must be provided typically is based on the difference between the contract price of the commodity and its current market price. Significant movements in market prices can result in a requirement to provide cash collateral and letters of credit in very large amounts. Without adequate liquidity to meet margin and collateral requirements, EME could be exposed to the following:   

•a reduction in the number of counterparties willing to enter into bilateral contracts, which would result in increased reliance on short-term and spot markets instead of bilateral contracts, increasing EME's exposure to market volatility; and   

•a failure to meet a margin requirement, which could permit the counterparty to terminate the related bilateral contract early and demand immediate payment for the replacement value of the contract.  

As a result of these and other factors, EME cannot predict the effect that risk management decisions may have on its business, operating results or financial position.  

 Competition could adversely affect EME's business.  

EME has numerous competitors in all aspects of its business some of whom may have greater liquidity, greater access to credit and other financial resources, lower cost structures, larger staffs or more experience than EME. EME's competitors may be able to respond more quickly and efficiently to new laws and regulations or emerging technologies, or to devote greater resources to the development, operation, and maintenance of their power generation facilities than EME. Multiple participants in the wholesale markets, including many regulated utilities, have a lower cost of capital than most merchant generators and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generation assets without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. These factors could affect EME's ability to compete effectively in the markets in which those entities operate.  

Newer plants owned by EME's competitors are often more efficient than EME's facilities and may also have lower costs of operation. Over time, some of EME's merchant facilities may become obsolete in their markets, or be unable to compete with such plants.  

49 

Table of Contents 

In addition to the competition already existing in the markets in which EME presently operates or may consider operating in the future, EME is likely to encounter significant competition as a result of further consolidation of the power industry by mergers and asset reallocations, which could create larger competitors, as well as new market entrants.  

 Financing Risks 

 EME may not be able to raise capital on favorable terms, which could adversely affect its results of operation.  

Liquidity is essential to EME's business. EME cannot provide assurance that its projected sources of capital will be available when needed or that its actual cash requirements will not be greater than expected. Lack of available capital may affect EME's ability to complete environmental improvements at the fossil-fueled facilities, which could lead to the eventual shutdown of a material part of such facilities. Lack of available capital could also affect EME's ability to complete the development of sites for renewable projects deploying current turbine commitments, which could lead to postponement or cancellation of the turbine commitments subject to the provisions of the related contracts. EME cannot provide assurance that its projected sources of capital will be available when needed or that its actual cash requirements will not be greater than expected.  

 EME and its subsidiaries have a substantial amount of indebtedness, including long-term lease obligations.  

As of December 31, 2009, EME's consolidated debt was approximately $4.0 billion. In addition, EME's subsidiaries had $3.2 billion of long-term, power plant lease obligations that are due over a period ranging up to 25 years. The substantial amount of consolidated debt and financial obligations presents the risk that EME and its subsidiaries might not have sufficient cash to service their indebtedness or long-term lease obligations and that the existing corporate debt, project debt and lease obligations could limit the ability of EME and its subsidiaries to grow their business, to compete effectively, to operate successfully under adverse economic conditions, to comply with evolving environmental regulations, or to plan for and react to business and industry changes. If cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to cover scheduled debt payments, EME or its subsidiaries might have to reduce or delay capital expenditures (including environmental improvements required by the CPS, which could in turn lead to unit shutdowns), sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance the debt. The terms of EME's or its subsidiaries' debt may not allow these alternative measures, the debt or equity may not be available on acceptable terms, and these alternative measures may not satisfy all scheduled debt service obligations.  

 EME conducts a substantial portion of its operations through its subsidiaries and may be limited in its ability to access funds from these subsidiaries to service its debt.  

EME depends to a large degree upon dividends and other intercompany transfers of funds from its subsidiaries to meet debt service and other obligations. In addition, the ability of EME's subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other payments to EME may be restricted by, among other things, applicable corporate and other laws, potentially adverse tax  

50 

Table of Contents 

consequences, and agreements entered into by the subsidiaries. If EME is unable to access the cash flow of its subsidiaries, it may have difficulty meeting its own debt obligations.  

 Restrictions in the instruments governing EME's indebtedness and the indebtedness and lease obligations of its subsidiaries limit EME's and its subsidiaries' ability to enter into specified transactions that they otherwise might enter into.  

The instruments governing EME's indebtedness and the indebtedness and lease obligations of its subsidiaries contain financial and investment covenants. Restrictions contained in these documents or documents EME or its subsidiaries enter in the future could affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, EME's ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to, among other things, incur, refinance, and prepay debt, make capital expenditures, pay dividends and make other distributions, make investments, create liens, sell assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, issue equity interests, enter into transactions with affiliates, create restrictions on the ability to pay dividends or make other distributions and engage in mergers and consolidations. These restrictions may significantly impede EME's ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, to grow its business or to compete effectively. In addition, these restrictions may significantly impede the ability of EME's subsidiaries to make distributions to EME.  

In connection with the entry into new financings or amendments to existing financing arrangements, EME's financial and operational flexibility may be further reduced as a result of more restrictive covenants, requirements for security and other terms that are often imposed on sub-investment grade entities.  

 Operating Risks 

 EME's development projects or future acquisitions may not be successful.  

EME's development activities are subject to risks including, without limitation, risks related to the identification of project sites, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project agreements, including power purchase agreements. As a result of these risks, EME may not be successful in developing new projects, or the timing of such development may be delayed beyond the date that turbines are ready for installation. Projects under development may be adversely affected by delays in turbine deliveries or start-up problems related to turbine performance, and agreements with off-takers may contain damages and termination provisions related to failures to meet specified milestones. Moreover, recent economic conditions may affect the willingness of local utilities to enter into new power purchase agreements due to uncertainties over future load requirements, among other factors. If a project under development is abandoned, EME would expense all capitalized costs incurred in connection with that project, and could incur additional losses associated with any related contingent liabilities.  

In support of its development activities, EME has entered into commitments to purchase wind turbines for future projects and may make substantial additional commitments in the future. If EME is not successful in developing new projects, it may be required to cancel turbine orders or sell turbines that were purchased. Such cancellations and/or sales may result in substantial losses and, under certain circumstances, may give rise to disputes with the turbine vendor. In  

51 

Table of Contents 

addition, EME cannot provide assurance that its development projects or acquired assets will generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or to fund the capital expenditures needed to develop them, or that EME will ultimately realize a satisfactory rate of return.  

 EME's projects may be affected by general operating risks and hazards customary in the power generation industry. EME may not have adequate insurance to cover all these hazards.  

The operation of power generation facilities involves many operating risks, including:   

•performance below expected levels of output, efficiency or availability;   

•interruptions in fuel supply;   

•disruptions in the transmission of electricity;   

•curtailment of operations due to transmission constraints;   

•breakdown or failure of equipment or processes;   

•shortages of equipment or spare parts;   

•imposition of new regulatory, permitting, or environmental requirements, or violations of existing requirements;   

•restrictions on emissions;   

•releases of hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or groundwater;   

•inability to transport and dispose of coal ash at reasonable prices;   

•employee work force factors, including strikes, work stoppages or labor disputes;   

•operator/contractor error; and   

•catastrophic events such as terrorist activities, fires, tornadoes, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences affecting power generation facilities or the transmission and distribution infrastructure over which power is transported.  

These and other hazards can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of or damage to the environment, and suspension of operations. The occurrence of one or more of the events listed above could decrease or eliminate revenues generated by EME's projects or significantly increase the costs of operating them, and could also result in EME being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, potentially including environmental cleanup costs, personal injury, property damage, fines and penalties.  

Unplanned outages typically increase operation and maintenance expenditures and reduce revenues. EME could also be required to purchase replacement power in the open market to satisfy contractual commitments. Equipment and plant warranties, guarantees and insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. A decrease or elimination in revenues generated by the facilities or an increase in the costs of operating them could decrease or eliminate funds available to meet EME's obligations as they become due and could have a material adverse effect on EME. A default  

52 

Table of Contents 

under a financing obligation of a project entity could cause EME to lose its interest in the project.  

 The creditworthiness of EME's customers, suppliers, transporters and other business partners could affect EME's business and operations.  

EME is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of its key customers, suppliers and business partners, many of whom may be adversely affected by the current conditions in the financial markets. Deterioration in the financial condition of EME's counterparties increases the possibility that EME may incur losses from the failure of counterparties to perform according to the terms of their contractual arrangements.  

EME's operations depend on contracts for the supply and transportation of fuel and other services required for the operation of its generation facilities and are exposed to the risk that counterparties to contracts will not perform their obligations. If a fuel supplier or transporter failed to perform under a contract, EME would need to obtain alternate supplies or transportation, which could result in higher costs or disruptions in its operations. If the defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, damages related to a breach of contract may not be recoverable. Accordingly, the failure of counterparties to fulfill their contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on EME's financial results.  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None.  

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES