Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Operations contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as indicative of future operations. 

Executive Summary 

Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation’s largest publicly-traded owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had interests in 946 shopping center properties (the “Combined Shopping Center Portfolio”), aggregating 138.1 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”) and 845 other property interests, primarily through the Company’s preferred equity investments, other real estate investments and non-retail properties, totaling approximately 34.1 million square feet of GLA, for a grand total of 1,791 properties aggregating 172.2 million square feet of GLA, located in 44 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Peru. 

The Company is self-administered and self-managed through present management, which has owned and managed neighborhood and community shopping centers for over 50 years. The executive officers are engaged in the day-to-day management and operation of real estate exclusively with the Company, with nearly all operating functions, including leasing, asset management, maintenance, construction, legal, finance and accounting, administered by the Company. 

The Company’s vision is to be the premier owner and operator of shopping centers with its core business operations focusing on owning and operating neighborhood and community shopping centers through investments in North America. This vision will entail a shift away from non-retail assets that the Company currently holds. These investments include non-retail preferred equity investments, marketable securities, mortgages on non-retail properties and several urban mixed-use properties. The Company’s plan is to sell its non-retail assets and investments, realizing that the sale of these assets will be over a period of time given the current market conditions. If the Company accepts sales prices for these non-retail assets that are less than their net carrying values, the Company would be required to take impairment charges. In order to execute the Company’s vision, the Company’s strategy is to continue to strengthen its balance sheet by pursuing deleveraging efforts over time, providing it the necessary flexibility to invest opportunistically and selectively, primarily focusing on neighborhood and community shopping centers. In addition, the Company continues to be committed to broadening its institutional management business by forming joint ventures with high quality domestic and foreign institutional partners for the purpose of investing in neighborhood and community shopping centers. 

The following highlights the Company’s significant transactions, events and results that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2011: 

Portfolio Information: 

· 

Occupancy rose from 93.0% at December 31, 2010 to 93.3% at December 31, 2011 in the Combined Shopping Center Portfolio. 

· 

Occupancy rose from 92.4% at December 31, 2010 to 93.1% at December 31, 2011 for the U.S. combined shopping center. 

· 

Executed 2,474 leases, renewals and options totaling over 8.0 million square feet in the Combined Shopping Center Portfolio. 

Acquisition Activity: 

· 

Acquired 19 shopping center properties, an outparcel and one land parcel comprising an aggregate 2.5 million square feet of GLA, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $374.6 million including the assumption of approximately $117.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 12 of the properties. 

Disposition Activity: 

· 

During 2011, the Company monetized non-retail assets of approximately $295.4 million and reduced its non-retail book values by approximately $286.6 million to approximately $512 million, which represents less than 5.4% of total assets. 

· 

Included in the monetization above are the disposition of (i) four properties and one land parcel, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $15.1 million and (ii) one property from a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment for a sales price of approximately $6.1 million. These transactions resulted in aggregate impairment charges of $4.4 million and a profit participation of approximately $1.4 million, before income tax benefit of approximately $1.4 million.  

· 

Also included in the monetization above is (i) the Company’s receipt of approximately $13.9 million in distributions from the Albertson’s joint venture, in which the Company recognized approximately $13.9 million, before income tax, of equity in income, (ii) the Company’s receipt of approximately $49.3 million in distributions from two preferred equity investments, in which the Company recognized in aggregate approximately $10.6 million of equity in income and (iii) the Company’s sale of various marketable securities for an aggregate sales price of approximately $198.2 million. 

15 

· 

Additionally, during 2011, the Company disposed of, in separate transactions, 23 operating properties, one development property and an outparcel for an aggregate sales price of approximately $113.4 million which resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $17.3 million and aggregate impairment charges of approximately $13.5 million, before income tax benefit and noncontrolling interest.  

· 

Also during 2011, the Company transferred an operating property and a merchant building property for an aggregate sales price of approximately $61.5 million to a newly formed unconsolidated joint venture in which the Company has a noncontrolling interest. This transaction resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $14.6 million, of which the Company deferred approximately $2.2 million due to its continued involvement.  

Capital Activity (for additional details see Liquidity and Capital Resources below): 

· 

Established a new $1.75 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of banks, which is scheduled to expire in October 2015 and has a one-year extension. 

Impairments: 

· 

The U.S. economic and market conditions stabilized throughout 2011 and capitalization rates, discount rates and vacancies had improved; however, overall declines in market conditions continued to have a negative effect on certain transactional activity as it related to select real estate assets and certain marketable securities. As such, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $32.8 million (including approximately $16.9 million which is classified within discontinued operations), before income taxes and noncontrolling interests, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, investments in other real estate joint ventures, investments in real estate joint ventures and marketable securities and other investments. Potential future adverse market and economic conditions could cause the Company to recognize additional impairments in the future (see Footnote 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  

· 

In addition to the impairment charges above, various unconsolidated joint ventures in which the Company holds noncontrolling interests recognized impairment charges relating to certain properties during 2011. The Company’s share of these charges was approximately $14.1 million, before income taxes (see Footnotes 2, 8 and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  

Critical Accounting Policies 

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest, including where the Company has been determined to be a primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity in accordance with the consolidation guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”). The Company applies these provisions to each of its joint venture investments to determine whether the cost, equity or consolidation method of accounting is appropriate. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. In preparing these financial statements, management has made its best estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. These estimates are based on, but not limited to, historical results, industry standards and current economic conditions, giving due consideration to materiality. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to revenue recognition and the recoverability of trade accounts receivable, depreciable lives, valuation of real estate and intangible assets and liabilities, valuation of joint venture investments, marketable securities and other investments, realizability of deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions. Application of these assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties, and, as a result, actual results could materially differ from these estimates. 

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of its real estate properties, investments in joint ventures, marketable securities and other investments. The Company’s reported net earnings are directly affected by management’s estimate of impairments and/or valuation allowances. 

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable 

Base rental revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Certain of these leases also provide for percentage rents based upon the level of sales achieved by the lessee. These percentage rents are recorded once the required sales level is achieved. Operating expense reimbursements are recognized as earned. Rental income may also include payments received in connection with lease termination agreements. In addition, leases typically provide for reimbursement to the Company of common area maintenance, real estate taxes and other operating expenses.  

16 

The Company makes estimates of the uncollectability of its accounts receivable related to base rents, straight-line rent, expense reimbursements and other revenues. The Company analyzes accounts receivable and historical bad debt levels, customer credit-worthiness and current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. In addition, tenants in bankruptcy are analyzed and estimates are made in connection with the expected recovery of pre-petition and post-petition claims. The Company’s reported net earnings are directly affected by management’s estimate of the collectability of accounts receivable. 

Real Estate 

The Company’s investments in real estate properties are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Significant renovations and replacements, which improve and extend the life of the asset, are capitalized. 

Upon acquisition of real estate operating properties, the Company estimates the fair value of acquired tangible assets (consisting of land, building, building improvements and tenant improvements) and identified intangible assets and liabilities (consisting of above and below-market leases, in-place leases and tenant relationships), assumed debt and redeemable units issued at the date of acquisition, based on evaluation of information and estimates available at that date. Based on these estimates, the Company allocates the estimated fair value to the applicable assets and liabilities. Fair value is determined based on an exit price approach, which contemplates the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. If, up to one year from the acquisition date, information regarding fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is received and estimates are refined, appropriate adjustments are made to the purchase price allocation on a retrospective basis. The Company expenses transaction costs associated with business combinations in the period incurred.  

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows: 

Buildings and building improvements 

15 to 50 years  

Fixtures, leasehold and tenant improvements 

Terms of leases or useful  

 (including certain identified intangible assets) 

 lives, whichever is shorter   

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of its properties for purposes of determining the amount of depreciation to reflect on an annual basis with respect to those properties. These assessments have a direct impact on the Company’s net earnings. 

Real estate under development on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets represents ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping center projects which may be subsequently sold upon completion or which the Company may hold as long-term investments. These assets are carried at cost. The cost of land and buildings under development includes specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved and other costs incurred during the period of development. The Company ceases cost capitalization when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity. A gain on the sale of these assets is generally recognized using the full accrual method in accordance with the provisions of the FASB’s real estate sales guidance provided that various criteria relating to terms of the sale and subsequent involvement by the Company with the property are met. 

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may be impaired. A property value is considered impaired only if management’s estimate of current and projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and unleveraged) of the property over its remaining useful life is less than the net carrying value of the property. Such cash flow projections consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. To the extent impairment has occurred, the carrying value of the property would be adjusted to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

When a real estate asset is identified by management as held-for-sale, the Company ceases depreciation of the asset and estimates the sales price of such asset net of selling costs. If, in management’s opinion, the net sales price of the asset is less than the net book value of such asset, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures 

The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated joint ventures under the equity method of accounting as the Company exercises significant influence, but does not control, these entities. These investments are recorded initially at cost and are subsequently adjusted for cash contributions and distributions. Earnings for each investment are recognized in accordance with each respective investment agreement and, where applicable, are based upon an allocation of the investment’s net assets at book value as if the investment was hypothetically liquidated at the end of each reporting period. 

17 

The Company’s joint ventures and other real estate investments primarily consist of co-investments with institutional and other joint venture partners in neighborhood and community shopping center properties, consistent with its core business. These joint ventures typically obtain non-recourse third-party financing on their property investments, thus contractually limiting the Company’s exposure to losses to the amount of its equity investment, and, due to the lender’s exposure to losses, a lender typically will require a minimum level of equity in order to mitigate its risk. The Company’s exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily limited to its carrying value in these investments. The Company, on a limited selective basis, obtained unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. These unsecured financings are guaranteed by the Company with guarantees from the joint venture partners for their proportionate amounts of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make.  

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the Company’s investments in unconsolidated joint ventures may be impaired. An investment’s value is impaired only if management’s estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value of the investment and such difference is deemed to be other-than-temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the estimated fair value of the investment. 

The Company’s estimated fair values are based upon a discounted cash flow model for each specific property that includes all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period and, where applicable, any estimated debt premiums. Capitalization rates, discount rates and credit spreads utilized in these models are based upon rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for each respective property.  

Marketable Securities 

The Company classifies its marketable equity securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the FASB’s Investments-Debt and Equity Securities guidance. These securities are carried at fair market value with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (“OCI”). Gains or losses on securities sold are based on the specific identification method.  

All debt securities are generally classified as held-to-maturity because the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are stated at amortized cost, adjusted for any amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Debt securities which contain conversion features are generally classified as available-for-sale. These securities are carried at fair market value with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of OCI. 

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the Company’s marketable securities may be impaired. A marketable security is impaired if the fair value of the security is less than the carrying value of the security and such difference is deemed to be other-than-temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the security over the estimated fair value in the security.  

Realizability of Deferred Tax Assets and Uncertain Tax Positions 

The Company is subject to federal, state and local income taxes on the income from its activities relating to its TRS activities and subject to local taxes on certain non-U.S. investments. The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method, which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized based on future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the years in which temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when the changes are enacted. 

A reduction of the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance is required, if based on the evidence available, it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance should be sufficient to reduce the deferred tax asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. 

The Company considers all available evidence, both positive and negative, to determine whether, based on the weight of that evidence, a valuation allowance is needed. Information about an enterprise's current financial position and its results of operations for the current and preceding years is supplemented by all currently available information about future years.  

The Company must use judgment in considering the relative impact of negative and positive evidence. The weight given to the potential effect of negative and positive evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists (a) the more positive evidence is necessary and (b) the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed for some portion or all of the deferred tax asset. 

18 

The Company believes, when evaluating deferred tax assets within its taxable REIT subsidiaries, special consideration should be given to the unique relationship between the Company as a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiaries. This relationship exists primarily to protect the REIT’s qualification under the Code by permitting, within certain limits, the REIT to engage in certain business activities in which the REIT cannot directly participate. As such, the REIT controls which and when investments are held in, or distributed or sold from, its taxable REIT subsidiaries. This relationship distinguishes a REIT and taxable REIT subsidiary from an enterprise that operates as a single, consolidated corporate taxpayer.  

The Company primarily utilizes a twenty year projection of pre-tax book income and taxable income as positive evidence to overcome its significant negative evidence of a three-year cumulative pretax book loss. Although items of income and expense utilized in the projection are objectively verifiable there is also significant judgment used in determining the duration and timing of events that would impact the projection. Based upon the Company’s analysis of negative and positive evidence the Company will make a determination of the need for a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets. If future income projections do not occur as forecasted, the Company will reevaluate the need for a valuation allowance. In addition, the Company can employ additional strategies to realize its deferred tax assets, including transferring a greater portion of its property management business to the TRS, sale of certain built-in gain assets, and further reducing intercompany debt.  

The Company recognizes and measures benefits for uncertain tax positions, which requires significant judgment from management. Although the Company believes it has adequately reserved for any uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. The Company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in the Company’s income tax expense in the period in which a change is made, which could have a material impact on operating results (see Footnote 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K). 

Results of Operations 

Comparison 2011 to 2010 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) 

Revenues from rental property increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2011 and 2010, providing incremental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $35.7 million, as compared to the corresponding period in 2010 and (ii) the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects, tenant buyouts and overall growth in the current portfolio, providing incremental revenues of approximately $7.9 million, for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in 2010, which was partially offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in 2010, primarily resulting from the partial sale of certain properties during 2011 and 2010. 

(2) 

Rental property expenses increased primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2011 and 2010, and (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service, which resulted in lower capitalization of carry costs. 

(3) 

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2011 and 2010, (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service and (iii) tenant vacancies. 

Mortgage and other financing income decreased $2.1 million to $7.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $9.4 million for the corresponding period in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in interest income resulting from the repayment of certain mortgage receivables during 2011 and 2010. 

Management and other fee income decreased approximately $4.6 million to $35.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $39.9 million for the corresponding period in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in property management fees of approximately $2.4 million recognized during 2011, as compared to 2010, primarily due to the disposition of properties during 2011 and 2010 and a decrease in transaction related fees of approximately $2.2 million recognized during 2011, as compared to 2010.  

19 

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $9.7 million to $118.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $109.2 million for the corresponding period in 2010. This change is primarily a result of an increase in equity awards expense related to grants issued during 2011 and 2010 and an increase in other personnel related costs during 2011, as compared to the corresponding periods in 2010. 

Interest, dividends and other investment income decreased approximately $4.6 million to $16.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $21.2 million for the corresponding period in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to the sale of the Valad notes resulting in a decrease in interest income of approximately $13.5 million, partially offset by (i) an increase in bank interest income of approximately $1.1 million during 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in 2010, primarily resulting from the change in cash balances during 2011 and (ii) an income distribution of approximately $7.4 million from a cost method investment during 2011.  

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred early extinguishment of debt charges aggregating approximately $10.8 million in connection with the optional make-whole provisions of notes that were repaid prior to maturity and prepayment penalties on five mortgages that the Company paid prior to their maturity. 

During 2011, the Company sold a merchant building property to an unconsolidated joint venture in which the Company has a noncontrolling interest for a sales price of approximately $37.6 million resulting in a pretax gain of approximately $12.1 million after a deferral of approximately $2.1 million due to the Company’s continued involvement in the property.  

During 2010, the Company disposed of a land parcel for a sales price of approximately $0.8 million resulting in a gain of approximately $0.4 million. Additionally, the Company recognized approximately $1.7 million in income on previously sold development properties during the year ended December 31, 2010.  

During 2011, the Company recognized aggregate impairment charges of approximately $15.3 million (not including approximately $16.9 million which is included in discontinued operations), before income taxes and noncontrolling interest, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, investments in other real estate investments, investment in real estate joint ventures and other investments. The Company’s estimated fair values relating to these impairment assessments were based upon their respective estimated sales prices. Based on these inputs, the Company determined that its valuation in these investments was classified within Level 3 of the FASB fair value hierarchy.  

Additionally, during 2011, the Company recorded impairment charges of approximately $0.6 million due to the decline in value of certain marketable securities that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

During 2010, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $28.0 million (not including approximately $6.5 million which is included in discontinued operations), before income taxes and noncontrolling interest, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, real estate under development, investments in other real estate investments and other investments. The Company’s estimated fair values relating to these impairment assessments were based upon estimated sales prices and discounted cash flow models that included all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period. These cash flows are comprised of unobservable inputs which include contractual rental revenues and forecasted rental revenues and expenses based upon market conditions and expectations for growth. Capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in these models were based upon observable rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for the respective properties. Based on these inputs, the Company determined that its valuation in these investments was classified within Level 3 of the FASB fair value hierarchy.  

Additionally, during 2010, the Company recorded impairment charges of approximately $4.6 million due to the decline in value of certain marketable securities that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

(Provision)/benefit for income taxes changed by approximately $16.3 million to a provision of approximately $19.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to a provision of approximately $3.2 million for the corresponding period in 2010. This change is primarily due to (i) a decrease in income tax benefit of approximately $10.3 million related to fewer impairments taken during the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in 2010, (ii) an increase in the income tax provision expense of approximately $4.8 million in connection with gains on sale of development properties during 2011, as compared to 2010, (iii) a decrease in tax benefit of approximately $4.9 million as a result of reduced interest expense for the Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries, (iv) a tax provision of approximately $2.7 million resulting from the receipt of a cash distribution in excess of the Company’s carrying value of a cost method investment during 2011 and (v) a tax provision of approximately $1.4 million resulting from incremental earnings due to increased profitability from properties within the Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries, partially offset by (vi) a decrease in foreign taxes of approximately $6.8 million primarily resulting from an unrealized foreign exchange loss recognized for Mexican tax purposes on U.S. denominated mortgage debt within the Company’s Latin American property portfolio.  

20 

Equity in income of joint ventures, net increased approximately $29.4 million to $64.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $34.6 million for the corresponding period in 2010. This increase is primarily the result of (i) a decrease in impairment charges of approximately $10.0 million resulting from fewer impairment charges recognized against certain joint venture properties during the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in 2010, (ii) an increase in equity in income of approximately $4.2 million from the Company’s InTown Suites investment primarily resulting from increased operating profitability, (iii) an increase in equity in income of approximately $2.3 million from the Company’s joint venture investments in Canada primarily resulting from the Company increasing its noncontrolling ownership interest in certain Canadian portfolios, (iv) an increase in equity in income of approximately $2.1 million from the Company’s joint venture investments in Latin America primarily resulting from lease-up activities at properties that were placed into service, (v) a decrease of approximately $7.2 million in equity in loss from a joint venture in which the Company no longer has an equity basis and is therefore no longer required to record equity losses, (vi) an increase in gains on sales of approximately $4.9 million for 2011, as compared to 2010 and (vii) incremental earnings due to increased profitability from properties within the Company’s joint venture program, partially offset by (viii) the recognition of approximately $8.0 million in income resulting from cash distributions received in excess of the Company’s carrying value of its investment in an unconsolidated limited liability partnership during the year ended December 31, 2010. 

Equity in income from other real estate investments, net decreased approximately $9.0 million to $51.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $60.8 million for the corresponding period in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease of approximately $7.2 million in equity in income from the Albertson’s joint venture resulting from lower cash distributions received in excess of the Company’s investment during 2011, as compared to the corresponding period during 2010 and a decrease of approximately $2.7 million in equity in earnings including profit participation earned from the Company’s Preferred Equity Program during 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in 2010. 

During 2011, the Company disposed of 27 operating properties, one development property and one outparcel, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $124.9 million. These transactions, which are included in Discontinued Operations, resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $17.3 million and aggregate impairment charges of approximately $16.9 million, before income taxes.  

Additionally, during 2011, a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment disposed of a property for a sales price of approximately $6.1 million. As a result of this capital transaction, the Company received approximately $1.4 million of profit participation, before noncontrolling interest of approximately $0.1 million. This profit participation has been recorded as Income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

During 2010, the Company (i) sold seven operating properties, which were previously consolidated, to two new joint ventures in which the Company holds noncontrolling equity interests for an aggregate sales price of approximately $438.1 million including the assignment of $159.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering three of the properties and (ii) disposed of, in separate transactions, seven operating properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $100.5 million including the assignment of $81.0 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties. These transactions resulted in aggregate gains of approximately $4.4 million and aggregate losses/impairments of approximately $5.0 million. 

Additionally, during 2010, the Company disposed of (i) three properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $23.8 million and (ii) five properties from a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment for a sales price of approximately $40.8 million. These transactions resulted in an aggregate profit participation of approximately $20.8 million, before income tax of approximately $1.0 million and noncontrolling interest of approximately $4.9 million. This profit participation has been recorded as Income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties, net of tax in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

Net income attributable to the Company increased approximately $26.2 million to $169.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to $142.9 million for the corresponding period in 2010. On a diluted per share basis, net income attributable to the Company was $0.27 for 2011, as compared to net income of $0.22 for 2010. These increases are primarily attributable to (i) additional incremental earnings due to increased profitability from the Company’s operating properties and the acquisition of operating properties during 2011 and 2010, (ii) an increase in gain on sale of development properties recognized during 2011, as compared to 2010, (iii) increased equity in income of joint ventures, net primarily due to incremental earnings from increased profitability within the joint venture portfolios and fewer impairment charges recognized against certain joint venture properties during the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in 2010 and (iv) early extinguishment of debt charges recognized during 2010, aggregating approximately $10.8 million, partially offset by (v) an increase in provision for income taxes. 

21 

Comparison 2010 to 2009 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) 

Revenues from rental property increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2010 and 2009, providing incremental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $70.6 million, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009 and (ii) the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects, tenant buyouts and overall growth in the current portfolio, providing incremental revenues of approximately $9.5 million, for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009, which was partially offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009, primarily resulting from the sale of certain properties during 2010 and 2009. 

(2) 

Rental property expenses increased primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2010 and 2009 and (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service, which resulted in lower capitalization of carry costs, partially offset by (iii) certain operating property dispositions during 2010 and 2009. 

(3) 

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2010 and 2009, (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service and (iii) tenant vacancies, partially offset by (iv) certain operating property dispositions during 2010 and 2009. 

Mortgage and other financing income decreased $5.6 million to $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $15.0 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in interest income as a result of pay-downs and dispositions of mortgage receivables during 2010 and 2009. 

Management and other fee income decreased approximately $2.6 million to $39.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $42.5 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in property management fees of approximately $2.6 million from PL Retail, due to the Company’s acquisition of the remaining 85% ownership interest resulting in the Company’s consolidation of PL Retail in 2009, partially offset by an increase in other transaction related fees of approximately $0.1 million recognized during 2010.  

Interest, dividends and other investment income decreased approximately $11.9 million to $21.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $33.1 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a decrease in realized gains of approximately $5.2 million during 2010 resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during the corresponding period in 2009 as compared to 2010, (ii) a reduction in interest income of approximately $3.8 million due to repayments of notes in 2010 and 2009 and (iii) a decrease in interest and dividend income of approximately $1.9 million during 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009, primarily resulting from the sale of investments in marketable securities during 2010 and 2009.  

Other (expense)/income, net changed approximately $10.1 million to an expense of approximately $4.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to income of approximately $5.5 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This change is primarily due to (i) a decrease in the fair value of an embedded derivative instrument of approximately $2.0 million relating to the convertible option of the Company’s investment in Valad notes, (ii) decreased gains from land sales of approximately $3.5 million, (iii) an increase in a legal settlement accrual of approximately $2.0 million relating to a previously sold ground-up development project and (iv) an increase in acquisition related costs of approximately $0.5 million. 

Interest expense increased approximately $18.3 million to $226.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $207.8 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This increase is due to higher average outstanding levels of debt during the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to 2009. 

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred early extinguishment of debt charges aggregating approximately $10.8 million in connection with the optional make-whole provisions of notes that were repaid prior to maturity and prepayment penalties on five mortgages that the Company paid prior to their maturity. 

During 2010, the Company disposed of a land parcel for a sales price of approximately $0.8 million resulting in a gain of approximately $0.4 million. Additionally, the Company recognized approximately $1.7 million in income on previously sold development properties during the year ended December 31, 2010.  

22 

During 2009, the Company sold, in separate transactions, five out-parcels, four land parcels and three ground leases for aggregate proceeds of approximately $19.4 million. These transactions resulted in gains on sale of development properties of approximately $5.8 million, before income taxes of $2.3 million.  

During 2010, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $28.0 million (not including approximately $6.5 million which is included in discontinued operations), before income taxes and noncontrolling interest, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, real estate under development, investments in other real estate investments and other investments. The Company’s estimated fair values relating to these impairment assessments were based upon estimated sales prices and discounted cash flow models that included all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period. These cash flows are comprised of unobservable inputs which include contractual rental revenues and forecasted rental revenues and expenses based upon market conditions and expectations for growth. Capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in these models were based upon observable rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for the respective properties. Based on these inputs, the Company determined that its valuation in these investments was classified within Level 3 of the FASB fair value hierarchy.  

Additionally, during 2010, the Company recorded impairment charges of approximately $4.6 million due to the decline in value of certain marketable securities that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

During 2009, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $119.0 million (not including approximately $26.0 million of which is included in discontinued operations), before income taxes and noncontrolling interest, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, investments in real estate joint ventures, real estate under development and other real estate investments. The Company’s estimated fair values relating to these impairment assessments were based upon discounted cash flow models that included all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period and where applicable, any estimated debt premiums. These cash flows are comprised of unobservable inputs which include contractual rental revenues and forecasted rental revenues and expenses based upon market conditions and expectations for growth. Capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in these models were based upon observable rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for the respective properties. Based on these inputs the Company determined that its valuation in these investments was classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Additionally, during 2009, the Company recorded impairment charges of approximately $30.1 million due to the decline in value of certain marketable equity securities and other investments that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

(Provision)/benefit for income taxes changed by approximately $23.3 million to a provision of approximately $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to a benefit of approximately $20.1 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This change is primarily due to (i) a decrease in income tax benefit of approximately $12.4 million related to impairments taken during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the corresponding period in 2009, (ii) an increase in foreign taxes of approximately $6.8 million primarily resulting from an overall increase in income from foreign investments and (iii) an increase in the tax provision expense of approximately $6.8 million relating to an increase in equity income recognized in connection with the Albertson’s investment during the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009, partially offset by (iv) a decrease in the income tax provision expense of approximately $1.4 million in connection with gains on sale of development properties during 2010, as compared to 2009.  

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net increased approximately $31.2 million to $34.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $3.4 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This increase is primarily the result of a (i) an increase in equity in income of approximately $5.9 million from the Company’s joint venture investments in Canada primarily resulting from the amendment and restructuring of two retail property preferred equity investments into two pari passu joint venture investments during 2010, (ii) the recognition of approximately $8.0 million in income resulting from cash distributions received in excess of the Company’s carrying value of its investment in an unconsolidated limited liability partnership for the year ended December 31, 2010 and (iii) decrease in impairment charges of approximately $15.0 million resulting from fewer impairment charges recognized against certain joint venture properties during 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009. 

Equity in income of other real estate investments, net increased approximately $26.4 million to $60.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $34.4 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This increase is primarily due to the recognition of approximately $21.2 million of equity in income from the Albertson’s joint venture during 2010, as compared to $3.0 million of equity in income recognized during 2009, primarily resulting from the sale of properties in the joint venture and an increase of approximately $7.2 million in profit participation earned from capital transactions within the Company’s Preferred Equity Program during 2010 as compared to the corresponding period in 2009. 

23 

During 2010, the Company (i) sold seven operating properties, which were previously consolidated, to two new joint ventures in which the Company holds noncontrolling equity interests for an aggregate sales price of approximately $438.1 million including the assignment of $159.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering three of the properties and (ii) disposed of, in separate transactions, seven operating properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $100.5 million including the assignment of $81.0 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties. These transactions resulted in aggregate gains of approximately $4.4 million and aggregate losses/impairments of approximately $5.0 million. 

Additionally, during 2010, the Company disposed of (i) three properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $23.8 million and (ii) five properties from a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment for a sales price of approximately $40.8 million. These transactions resulted in an aggregate profit participation of approximately $20.8 million, before income tax of approximately $1.0 million and noncontrolling interest of approximately $4.9 million. This profit participation has been recorded as Income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties, net of tax in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

During 2009, the Company disposed of, in separate transactions, portions of six operating properties and one land parcel for an aggregate sales price of approximately $28.9 million. These transactions resulted in the Company’s recognition of an aggregate net gain of approximately $4.1 million, net of income tax of $0.2 million. 

Net income attributable to the Company for 2010 was $142.9 million. Net loss attributable to the Company for 2009 was $3.9 million. On a diluted per share basis, net income attributable to the Company was $0.22 for 2010, as compared to net loss of $0.15 for 2009. These changes are primarily attributable to (i) a decrease in impairment charges of approximately $112.1 million, net of income taxes and noncontrolling interests, (ii) an overall net increase in Equity in income of joint ventures primarily due to a decrease in impairment charges of approximately $15.0 million during 2010, as compared to 2009 and an increase in equity in income from the Albertson’s joint venture, (iii) an increase in Income from other real estate investments primarily due to an increase of approximately $7.2 million from the Company’s Preferred Equity program, (iv) additional incremental earnings due to the acquisitions of operating properties during 2010 and 2009, partially offset by (v) the recognition of approximately $10.8 million in early extinguishment of debt charges.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company’s capital resources include accessing the public debt and equity capital markets, mortgage and construction loan financing and immediate access to an unsecured revolving credit facility with bank commitments of $1.75 billion. 

The Company’s cash flow activities are summarized as follows (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities 

The Company anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facility, issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Net cash flow provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, was primarily attributable to (i) cash flow from the diverse portfolio of rental properties, (ii) the acquisition of operating properties during 2011 and 2010, (iii) new leasing, expansion and re-tenanting of core portfolio properties and (iv) distributions from the Company’s joint venture programs. 

Cash flow provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, was approximately $448.6 million, as compared to approximately $479.9 million for the comparable period in 2010. The change of approximately $31.3 million is primarily attributable to changes in accounts payable and accrued expenses due to the timing of payments. 

Investing Activities 

Cash flow used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, was approximately $20.8 million, as compared to cash flows provided by investing activities of approximately $37.9 million for the comparable period in 2010. This change of approximately $58.7 million resulted primarily from (i) an increase in the acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate, (ii) an increase in investments and advances to real estate joint ventures, (iii) a decrease in reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures, (iv) a decrease in proceeds from the sale of operating and development properties during the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the corresponding period in 2010, partially offset by, (v) an increase in proceeds from the sale of marketable securities, (vi) an increase in reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures and (vii) an increase in reimbursements of other investments.  

24 

Acquisitions of and Improvements to Operating Real Estate 

During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company expended approximately $343.3 million towards acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate including $73.7 million expended in connection with redevelopments and re-tenanting projects as described below. (See Footnote 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.) 

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects during 2012 will be approximately $25.0 million to $35.0 million. The funding of these capital requirements will be provided by cash flow from operating activities and availability under the Company’s revolving line of credit. 

Investments and Advances to Real Estate Joint Ventures 

During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company expended approximately $171.7 million for investments and advances to real estate joint ventures and received approximately $63.5 million from reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures. (See Footnote 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.) 

Acquisitions of and Improvements to Real Estate Under Development 

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consist of (i) U.S. ground-up development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (ii) various ground-up development projects located in Latin America for long-term investment. The ground-up development projects generally have significant pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had in progress a total of four ground-up development projects, consisting of (i) two projects located in the U.S., (ii) one project located in Chile and (iii) one project located in Peru. 

During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company expended approximately $37.9 million in connection with construction costs related to ground-up development projects. The Company anticipates its capital commitment during 2012 toward these and other development projects will be approximately $15.0 million to $25.0 million. The proceeds from construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital requirements.  

Dispositions and Transfers 

During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company received net proceeds of approximately $180.1 million relating to the sale of various operating properties and ground-up development projects. (See Footnotes 5 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.) 

Financing Activities 

Cash flow used for financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, was approximately $440.1 million, as compared to approximately $514.7 million for the comparable period in 2010. This change of approximately $74.6 million resulted primarily from (i) an overall decrease in aggregate principal payments of approximately $191.6 million, (ii) a net increase of approximately $123.4 million in net borrowings/repayments under the Company’s unsecured revolving credit facility, (iii) a decrease in the repayment of unsecured term loan/notes of approximately $379.1 million, (iv) a decrease in the redemption of noncontrolling interests of approximately $54.2 million, partially offset by (v) decreases in proceeds from issuance of unsecured term loans/notes of approximately $449.7 million, (vi) a decrease in proceeds from the issuance of stock of approximately $171.3 million and (vii) an increase in dividends paid of approximately $46.8 million. 

The Company continually evaluates its debt maturities, and, based on management’s current assessment, believes it has viable financing and refinancing alternatives that will not materially adversely impact its expected financial results. The credit environment has improved and the Company continues to pursue borrowing opportunities with large commercial U.S. and global banks, select life insurance companies and certain regional and local banks. The Company has noticed a continuing trend that although pricing and loan-to-value ratios remain dependent on specific deal terms, generally spreads for non-recourse mortgage financing are compressing and loan-to-values are gradually increasing from levels a year ago. The unsecured debt markets are functioning well and credit spreads are at manageable levels. The Company continues to assess 2012 and beyond to ensure the Company is prepared if the current credit market conditions deteriorate.  

Debt maturities for 2012 consist of: $352.6 million of consolidated debt; $1.1 billion of unconsolidated joint venture debt; and $151.8 million of preferred equity debt, assuming the utilization of extension options where available. The 2012 consolidated debt maturities are anticipated to be extended, refinanced or repaid with operating cash flows, borrowings from the Company’s credit facility, which at December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $1.5 billion available under its credit facility. The 2012 unconsolidated joint venture and preferred equity debt maturities are anticipated to be extended or repaid through debt refinancing and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate. 

25 

The Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintain its investment-grade debt ratings. The Company plans to continue strengthening its balance sheet by pursuing deleveraging efforts over time. The Company may, from time-to-time, seek to obtain funds through additional common and preferred equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives.  

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $7.9 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have been used for the purposes of, among other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments. These markets have experienced extreme volatility but have more recently stabilized. As available, the Company will continue to access these markets.  

During October 2011, the Company established a new $1.75 billion unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with a group of banks, which is scheduled to expire in October 2015 and has a one-year extension option. This credit facility, which replaced the Company’s $1.5 billion unsecured U.S. credit facility and CAD $250.0 million credit facility, provides funds to finance general corporate purposes, including (i) property acquisitions, (ii) investments in the Company’s institutional management programs, (iii) development and redevelopment costs and (iv) any short-term working capital requirements. Interest on borrowings under the Credit Facility accrues at LIBOR plus 1.05% and fluctuates in accordance with changes in the Company’s senior debt ratings and has a facility fee of 0.20% per annum. As part of this Credit Facility, the Company has a competitive bid option whereby the Company could auction up to $875.0 million of its requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid option provides the Company the opportunity to obtain pricing below the currently stated spread. In addition, as part of the Credit Facility, the Company has a $500.0 million sub-limit which provides it the opportunity to borrow in alternative currencies such as Canadian Dollars, Pounds Sterling, Japanese Yen or Euros. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is subject to covenants requiring the maintenance of (i) maximum leverage ratios on both unsecured and secured debt and (ii) minimum interest and fixed coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2011, the Credit Facility had a balance of $238.9 million outstanding and $26.9 million appropriated for letters of credit. 

Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is subject to maintenance of various covenants. The Company is currently in compliance with these covenants. The financial covenants for the Credit Facility are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For a full description of the Credit Facility’s covenants refer to the Credit Agreement dated as of October 27, 2011 filed in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 2011. 

During March 2008, the Company obtained a Mexican peso (“MXN”) 1.0 billion term loan, which bears interest at a rate of 8.58%, subject to change in accordance with the Company’s senior debt ratings, and is scheduled to mature in March 2013. The Company utilized proceeds from this term loan to fully repay the outstanding balance of a MXN 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which was terminated by the Company. Remaining proceeds from this term loan were used for funding MXN denominated investments. As of December 31, 2011, the outstanding balance on this term loan was MXN 1.0 billion (approximately USD $71.5 million). The Mexican term loan covenants are similar to the Credit Facility covenants described above. The Company is currently in compliance with these covenants. 

The Company has a Medium Term Notes (“MTNs”) program pursuant to which it may, from time-to-time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities. (See Footnote 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.)  

The Company’s supplemental indenture governing its medium term notes and senior notes contains the following covenants, all of which the Company is compliant with: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

26 

For a full description of the various indenture covenants refer to the Indenture dated September 1, 1993, First Supplemental Indenture dated August 4, 1994, the Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 7, 1995, the Third Supplemental Indenture dated June 2, 2006, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 24, 2009, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 31, 2006 and First Supplemental Indenture dated October 31, 2006, as filed with the SEC. See Exhibits Index on page 34, for specific filing information. 

During 2011, the Company repaid the $88.0 million outstanding on its 4.82% medium-term notes, which matured in August 2011, and assumed approximately $124.8 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the acquisition of 12 operating properties, including an increase of approximately $6.9 million associated with fair value debt adjustments and paid off approximately $62.5 million of mortgage debt that encumbered 10 operating properties. 

During April 2009, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR, which is effective for a term of three years, for the future unlimited offerings, from time-to-time, of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants. The Company will renew this shelf registration statement during the first half of 2012. 

The Company, from time to time, repurchases shares of its common stock in amounts that offset new issuances of common shares in connection with the exercise of stock options or the issuance of restricted stock awards. These share repurchases may occur in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, subject to prevailing market conditions, the Company’s liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company repurchased 333,998 shares of the Company’s common stock for approximately $6.0 million, of which $4.9 million was provided to the Company from stock options exercised. 

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the Company may, from time-to-time, obtain mortgage financing on selected properties and construction loans to partially fund the capital needs of its ground-up development projects. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had over 415 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio.  

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows. The Company’s Board of Directors will continue to evaluate the Company’s dividend policy on a quarterly basis as they monitor sources of capital and evaluate the impact of the economy and capital markets availability on operating fundamentals. Since cash used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests in new properties and other investments as suitable opportunities arise and such other factors as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. Cash dividends paid were $353.8 million in 2011, as compared to $307.0 million in 2010 and $331.0 million in 2009. 

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable instruments. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per common share payable to shareholders of record on January 4, 2012, which was paid on January 17, 2012. Additionally, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.19 per common share payable to shareholders of record on April 4, 2012, which is scheduled to be paid on April 16, 2012.  

The Company is subject to taxes on its activities in Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, and Peru. Dividends paid to the Company from its subsidiaries and joint ventures in Canada, Mexico and Brazil are generally not subject to withholding taxes under the applicable tax treaty with the United States. Chile and Peru impose a 10% and 4.1% withholding tax, respectively, on dividend distributions. Brazil levies a 0.38% transaction tax on return of capital distributions. During 2011, less than $0.1 million of withholding and transaction taxes were withheld from distributions related to foreign activities. The Company does not anticipate the need to repatriate foreign funds from Chile, Peru or Brazil to provide for its cash flow needs in the U.S. and, as such, no significant withholding or transaction taxes are expected in the foreseeable future. 

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments 

The Company has debt obligations relating to its revolving credit facility, MTNs, senior notes, mortgages and construction loans with maturities ranging from less than one year to 24 years. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s total debt had a weighted average term to maturity of approximately 4.6 years. In addition, the Company has non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has 48 shopping center properties that are subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying land to the Company to construct and/or operate a shopping center. In addition, the Company has 13 non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its retail store lease portfolio. The following table summarizes the Company’s debt maturities (excluding extension options and fair market value of debt adjustments aggregating approximately $8.9 million) and obligations under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2011 (in millions): 

27 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Maturities utilized do not reflect extension options, which range from one to five years. 

(2) For loans which have interest at floating rates, future interest expense was calculated using the rate as of December 31, 2011. 

The Company has accrued $16.9 million of non-current uncertain tax benefits and related interest under the provisions of the authoritative guidance that addresses accounting for income taxes, which are included in Other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011. These amounts are not included in the table above because a reasonably reliable estimate regarding the timing of settlements with the relevant tax authorities, if any, cannot be made. 

The Company has $17.0 million of medium term notes, $198.9 million of unsecured notes payable and $182.4 million of secured debt scheduled to mature in 2012. The Company anticipates satisfying these maturities with a combination of operating cash flows, its unsecured revolving credit facility and new debt issuances. 

The Company has issued letters of credit in connection with completion and repayment guarantees for loans encumbering certain of the Company’s redevelopment projects and guarantee of payment related to the Company’s insurance program. These letters of credit aggregate approximately $33.2 million. 

On a select basis, the Company provides guarantees on interest bearing debt held within real estate joint ventures in which the Company has noncontrolling ownership interests. The Company is often provided with a back-stop guarantee from its partners. The Company had the following outstanding guarantees as of December 31, 2011 (amounts in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) The joint venture obtained an interest rate swap at 5.37% on $128.0 million of this debt. The swap is designated as a cash flow hedge and is deemed highly effective; as such, adjustments to the swaps fair value are recorded at the joint venture level in other comprehensive income. 

In connection with the construction of its development projects and related infrastructure, certain public agencies require posting of performance and surety bonds to guarantee that the Company’s obligations are satisfied. These bonds expire upon the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $22.8 million in performance and surety bonds outstanding.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures 

The Company has investments in various unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. These joint ventures primarily operate shopping center properties or are established for development projects. Such arrangements are generally with third-party institutional investors, local developers and individuals. The properties owned by the joint ventures are primarily financed with individual non-recourse mortgage loans, however, the Company, on a selective basis, obtains unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. These unsecured financings are guaranteed by the Company with guarantees from the joint venture partners for their proportionate amounts of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make (see guarantee table above). Non-recourse mortgage debt is generally defined as debt whereby the lenders’ sole recourse with respect to borrower defaults is limited to the value of the property collateralized by the mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse against any other assets owned by the borrower or any of the constituent members of the borrower, except for certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents (See Footnote 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K). These investments include the following joint ventures: 

28 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) 

Ownership % is a blended rate. 

(b) 

See Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments regarding guarantees by the Company and its joint venture partners. 

(c) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Prudential Real Estate Investors. 

(d) 

Represents the Kimco Income Operating Partnership, L.P., formed in 1998. 

(e) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with UBS Wealth Management North American Property Fund Limited. 

(f) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with BIG Shopping Centers (TLV:BIG), an Israeli public company. 

(g) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with The Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB).  

(h) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with SEB Immobilien Investment GmbH. 

(i) 

Represents the Kimco Income Fund, formed in 2004. 

(j) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Westmont Hospitality Group. 

(k) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust. 

(l) 

The Company’s share of this investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property cash flows.  

The Company has various other unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. As of December 31, 2011, these other unconsolidated joint ventures had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $2.3 billion and unsecured notes payable aggregating approximately $3.0 million. The aggregate debt as of December 31, 2011, of all of the Company’s unconsolidated real estate joint ventures is approximately $7.7 billion, of which the Company’s proportionate share of this debt was approximately $2.9 billion. These loans have scheduled maturities ranging from one month to 23 years and bear interest at rates ranging from 0.68% to 10.50% at December 31, 2011. Approximately $ 1.1 billion of the aggregate outstanding loan balance matures in 2012, of which the Company’s proportionate share is approximately $503.2 million. These maturing loans are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, debt refinancing and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate. (See Footnote 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K). 

Other Real Estate Investments 

The Company previously provided capital to owners and developers of real estate properties through its Preferred Equity program. The Company accounts for its preferred equity investments under the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity Program was approximately $193.4 million relating to 128 properties. As of December 31, 2011, these preferred equity investment properties had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $892.0 million. Due to the Company’s preferred position in these investments, the Company’s share of each investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property cash flows. The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its preferred equity investments is primarily limited to its invested capital. 

Additionally, during July 2007, the Company invested approximately $81.7 million of preferred equity capital in a portfolio comprised of 403 net leased properties which are divided into 30 master leased pools with each pool leased to individual corporate operators. These properties consist of a diverse array of free-standing restaurants, fast food restaurants, convenience and auto parts stores. As of December 31, 2011, the remaining 397 properties were encumbered by third party loans aggregating approximately $376.8 million, not including approximately $69.9 million in net fair market value of debt adjustments, with interest rates ranging from 5.08% to 10.47%, a weighted average interest rate of 9.3% and maturities ranging from two to 11 years.  

During June 2002, the Company acquired a 90% equity participation interest in an existing leveraged lease of 30 properties. The properties are leased under a long-term bond-type net lease whose primary term expires in 2016, with the lessee having certain renewal option rights. The Company’s cash equity investment was approximately $4.0 million. This equity investment is reported as a net investment in leveraged lease in accordance with the FASB’s Lease guidance. The net investment in leveraged lease reflects the original cash investment adjusted by remaining net rentals, estimated unguaranteed residual value, unearned and deferred income and deferred taxes relating to the investment. 

29 

As of December 31, 2011, 19 of these leveraged lease properties were sold, whereby the proceeds from the sales were used to pay down the mortgage debt by approximately $32.3 million. As of December 31, 2011, the remaining 11 properties were encumbered by third-party non-recourse debt of approximately $27.9 million that is scheduled to fully amortize during the primary term of the lease from a portion of the periodic net rents receivable under the net lease. As an equity participant in the leveraged lease, the Company has no recourse obligation for principal or interest payments on the debt, which is collateralized by a first mortgage lien on the properties and collateral assignment of the lease. Accordingly, this debt has been offset against the related net rental receivable under the lease. 

Effects of Inflation 

Many of the Company's leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above pre-determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon changes in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the Company's leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and will, from time-to-time, enter into interest rate protection agreements and/or foreign currency hedge agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate debt and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

Market and Economic Conditions; Real Estate and Retail Shopping Sector 

In the U.S., economic and market conditions have stabilized. Credit conditions have continued to improve with increased access and availability to secured mortgage debt and the unsecured bond and equity markets. However, there remains concern over high unemployment rates in the U.S. and concerns over sovereign debt issues and uncertain economic recovery in Europe. These conditions have contributed to slow growth in the U.S. and international economies. 

Historically, real estate has been subject to a wide range of cyclical economic conditions that affect various real estate markets and geographic regions with differing intensities and at different times. Different regions of the United States have and may continue to experience varying degrees of economic growth or distress. Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions could result in the inability of some tenants of the Company to meet their lease obligations and could otherwise adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract or retain tenants. The Company’s shopping centers are typically anchored by two or more national tenants who generally offer day-to-day necessities, rather than high-priced luxury items. In addition, the Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through ownership of a portfolio of properties with a diverse geographic and tenant base. 

The Company monitors potential credit issues of its tenants, and analyzes the possible effects to the financial statements of the Company and its unconsolidated joint ventures. In addition to the collectability assessment of outstanding accounts receivable, the Company evaluates the related real estate for recoverability as well as any tenant related deferred charges for recoverability, which may include straight-line rents, deferred lease costs, tenant improvements, tenant inducements and intangible assets. 

The retail shopping sector has been negatively affected by recent economic conditions, particularly in the Western part of the United States, such as Nevada, Arizona and the southern portion of California. These conditions may result in the Company’s tenants delaying lease commencements or declining to extend or renew leases upon expiration. These conditions also have forced some weaker retailers, in some cases, to declare bankruptcy and/or close stores. Certain retailers have announced store closings even though they have not filed for bankruptcy protection. However, any of these particular store closings affecting the Company often represent a small percentage of the Company’s overall gross leasable area and the Company does not currently expect store closings to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s overall performance. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

See Footnote 1 of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. 

30 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk