ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS  

This section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company and its businesses. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties our Company faces are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.  

If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities.  

Current Economic and Political Risks  

Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and economy generally, as well as political conditions in the United States and elsewhere, may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future.  

Recently, concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, a declining real estate market in the United States (in particular, in those markets in which we have generated significant spend volume on our charge and credit card products) and geopolitical issues have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence, increased unemployment and volatile oil prices have precipitated a global recession, which may cause further declines in credit and charge card usage and has already resulted in adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. If the performance of our charge card and credit card portfolios continues to weaken through increasing delinquencies and write-offs, our long-term and short-term debt ratings could be downgraded and our access to capital could be materially adversely affected and our cost of capital could increase.  

These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we are dependent upon consumer and business behavior. Our revenue growth is likely to decline in such circumstances and, in certain instances, revenues may decrease, and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market adversity, such as the global credit crisis and economic slowdown, we could incur significant losses.  

Factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, interest rates, the volatility and strength of the capital markets and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, our profitability. An economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

The lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial markets, reduced consumer and business spending, and worsening credit metrics also pose other risks to our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, we may face the following risks, among others, in connection with these events:  

   •    The processes we use to estimate losses may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, that may no longer be capable of accurate estimation.  

63  

Table of Contents 

   •    Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite credit to our customers become less predictive of future write-offs.  

   •    In the event that (i) the three-month average rate of excess spread earned on credit card loans securitized by us falls below zero or (ii) our undivided, pro rata interest in the securitization trust established by us for credit card loans represents less than seven percent of the outstanding securities in the American Express Credit Account Master Trust (the “Lending Trust”) (or 15 percent of the total receivables in the American Express Issuance Trust (the “Charge Trust”), then such trust would be required to amortize earlier than scheduled, which would accelerate our need for additional funding and would have a significant effect on the ability of certain of our business entities to meet capital adequacy requirements.  

   •    In the event that the three-month average rate of excess spread earned on credit card loans securitized by us falls below 5 percent for the Lending Trust or 4 percent for the Charge Trust, the securitization trusts established by us for credit card loans and charge card receivables, respectively, would be required to fund a cash reserve account of up to approximately $2 billion or $207 million, respectively, depending on how low the applicable excess spread falls. Beginning with the monthly period ending January 24, 2009 and the respective distribution date occurring on February 17, 2009, the three-month average excess spread percentage fell below five percent for the Group 1 fixed rate series in the Lending Trust. As a result, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries are required to fund the cash reserve accounts for the benefit of the respective secured notes (i.e., most subordinated interests) for such series in an aggregate amount of $22 million. To the extent current economic conditions continue to persist or worsen, we would expect to continue to fund such cash reserve accounts, as well as the cash reserve accounts of other series of certificates issued from the Lending Trust.  

Political or economic instability in certain regions or countries could also affect our commercial or other lending activities, among other businesses, or result in restrictions on convertibility of certain currencies. In addition, our travel network may be adversely affected by world geopolitical and other conditions. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns.  

Terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other catastrophic events may have a negative effect on our business. Because of our proximity to the World Trade Center, our headquarters were damaged as a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Similar events or other disasters or catastrophic events in the future could have a negative effect on our businesses and infrastructure, including our information technology systems. Because we derive a portion of our revenues from travel-related spending, our business will be sensitive to safety concerns, and thus may decline during periods in which travelers become concerned about safety issues or when travel might involve health-related risks.  

As the conditions described above (or similar ones) persist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital.  

As discussed above, the money and capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since August 2007, which have negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. In recent months, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels.  

The concerns on the part of market participants have focused on a broad range of mortgage- and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the U.S. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset   

64  

Table of Contents 

 classes and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events and increased probability of default. Securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and may be hard to dispose of. Domestic and international equity markets have also been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers such as us that have exposure to or rely on the credit markets particularly affected.  

We need liquidity to pay operating expenses, interest on debt and dividends on capital stock and to repay maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to limit our investments in growth opportunities or curtail operations. The principal sources of our liquidity are payments from Cardmembers, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash, deposits and issuances of commercial paper. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short- and long-term instruments, including medium- and long-term unsecured debt and the securitization of our credit card loan and charge card receivables.  

Notwithstanding our solid financial position, we are not immune from the pressures brought on by the current crisis in the financial markets. The fragility of the credit markets and the current economic environment have impacted financial services companies through market volatility, loss of confidence and rating agency actions. Since September 2008, the market for our unsecured term debt and asset securitizations, like that for virtually all financial institutions, has been effectively frozen, except in connection with our participation in certain programs sponsored by the federal government and certain of its departments and agencies discussed below. Therefore, our ability to obtain financing in the debt capital markets for unsecured term debt and asset securitizations is dependent on a renewal of investor demand.  

In the event current sources of liquidity, including internal sources, do not satisfy our needs, we would be required to seek additional financing. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings (which were downgraded in 2008, with respect to our long-term debt, by two of the major ratings agencies), and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large credit losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to an economic downturn.  

Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. In addition, certain sources of contingent liquidity, including the CPFF and the TLGP, which are being made available through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the FDIC and other federal departments and agencies, are subject to our ability to meet or continue to meet the criteria for participation in such facilities and programs and are temporary in nature as such programs are scheduled to terminate on various dates during 2009.  

The U.S. government has also taken certain other actions in addition to those described above to support the financial markets, including investing in financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets pursuant to the Capital Purchase Program of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the impact of which we cannot assess at this time. In addition, the Federal Reserve announced the introduction of the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (the “TALF”) in an effort to facilitate the issuance of asset-backed securities and improve the market conditions for asset-backed securities generally. It is unclear at this time what impact the TALF program will have on returning the securitization market to historical capacity and pricing levels.  

Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter-tenured securities than desired, or bear an   

65  

Table of Contents 

 unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease profitability and significantly reduce financial flexibility. In addition, during 2008, our credit spreads widened considerably. Our liquidity position will also be impacted by our ability to meet our objectives with respect to the growth of our brokered retail CD program and brokerage sweep account program and the implementation of our direct deposit initiative.  

If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, declines in the value of our retained interests in our securitization transactions could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

For a further discussion of our liquidity and funding needs, see “Financial Review – Funding Programs and Activities” on pages 35-41 of our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  

We can be adversely affected by the impairment of other financial institutions.  

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies. Defaults or non-performance by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by one or more of our counterparties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Any reduction in the Company’s and its subsidiaries credit ratings could increase the cost of our funding from, and restrict our access to, the capital markets and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Although the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ long-term debt is currently rated investment grade (at “A” levels) by the major rating agencies, the ratings of that debt have been downgraded during the fourth quarter of 2008 by Moody’s Investors Services (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), two of the major rating agencies. The rating agencies regularly evaluate the Company and its subsidiaries, and their ratings of the Company’s and its subsidiaries long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors, including their financial strength as well as factors not entirely within their control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. In light of the difficulties in the financial services industry and the financial markets, there can be no assurance that the Company and its subsidiaries will maintain their current respective ratings. Failure to maintain those ratings could, among other things, adversely limit our access to the capital markets and adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the Company and its subsidiaries are able to obtain funding.  

In addition, although each of Moody’s and S&P has affirmed the Company’s and its subsidiaries short-term debt ratings in the fourth quarter of 2008, a downgrade of the short-term ratings of the Company’s TRS subsidiary below its current P-1 rating by Moody’s and A-1 rating by S&P would require TRS, as servicer to our securitization trusts, to transfer collections on the securitized assets to investors on a daily, rather than a monthly, basis or make alternative arrangements with the rating agencies to allow TRS to continue to transfer collections on a monthly basis. Such alternative arrangements include obtaining appropriate guarantees for the performance of payment and deposit obligations of TRS, as servicer. The downgrade of TRS’s short-term ratings and the consequent increased operational costs of daily collections or the costs associated with the making of any alternative arrangements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and may adversely affect the market for our asset-backed securities.  

In addition, a downgrade of the short-term ratings of our Credco subsidiary below its current P-1/A-1/F1 ratings by two or more rating agencies would restrict such company’s ability to participate in the CPFF   

66  

Table of Contents 

 established by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to fund charge card receivables and credit card loans.  

We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take. As with other companies in the financial services industry, the Company’s and its subsidiaries ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any of the rating agencies.  

Adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could decrease revenue we receive from our international operations.  

During 2008, over 32% of our revenue net of interest expense was generated from activities outside the United States. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk from our international operations, and some of the revenue we generate outside the United States is subject to unpredictable and indeterminate fluctuations if the values of other currencies change relative to the U.S. dollar. Resulting exchange gains and losses are included in our net income. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our other revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could decrease the revenues we receive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.  

Legal and Regulatory Risks  

Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by new regulations to which we are subject as a result of becoming a bank holding company.  

On November 14, 2008, American Express Company and TRS each became bank holding companies under the BHC Act and elected to be treated as financial holding companies under the BHC Act. As a result of becoming a bank holding company, we are subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve, including, without limitation, consolidated capital regulation at the holding company level, maintenance of certain capital and management standards in connection with our two U.S. depository institutions and restrictions on our non-banking activities under the Federal Reserve’s regulations. For additional information about this change in regulatory status, please see “Supervision and Regulation—General” beginning on page 34 above.  

If we fail to satisfy new regulatory requirements applicable to bank holding companies, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

We are subject to restrictions and obligations that limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our capital stock.  

In January 2009, we issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase our common shares to the Treasury as part of the CPP prior to January 9, 2012, unless we have redeemed the preferred stock or the Treasury has transferred the preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the Treasury will be required for us to (1) declare or pay any dividend or make any distribution on our common shares (other than regular quarterly cash dividends of not more than $0.18 per share) or (2) redeem, purchase or acquire any of our common shares or other equity or capital securities, other than in connection with benefit plans consistent with past practice and certain other limited circumstances. In addition, our ability to declare or pay dividends or repurchase our common shares or other equity or capital securities will be subject to restrictions in the event that we fail to declare and pay (or set aside for payment) full dividends on the preferred stock.  

Congress has held hearings on implementation of the CPP and the use of funds provided by this program and has adopted, and may adopt in the future, legislation impacting financial institutions that obtain funding under the CPP. This could also include changing lending practices that legislators believe led to the current economic situation. Although it is unclear whether any future legislation will be enacted into law, further   

67  

Table of Contents 

 restrictions may be imposed administratively by the Treasury. Such provisions could further restrict our lending or increase governmental oversight of our businesses and our corporate governance practices.  

We are also limited in our ability to pay dividends by our regulators who could prohibit a dividend that would be considered an unsafe or unsound banking practice. For example, it is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of earnings, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs, asset quality, and financial condition. For more information on bank holding company dividend restrictions, please see “Financial Review—Share Repurchases and Dividends” on page 34 and Note 13 on page 96 of our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  

Certain rules adopted by federal bank regulators could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

On December 18, 2008, federal bank regulators in the United States published final amendments to Regulation AA (i.e., “UDAP”), which relate to unfair and deceptive acts or practices, and Regulation Z, which relate to truth in lending, that restrict certain credit and charge card practices and require expanded disclosures to consumers. These amendments, among other things:  

   •    Prohibit interest rate increases on outstanding credit card balances except under limited circumstances;  

   •    Prohibit interest rate increases on new transactions during the first year after the account is opened, except under limited circumstances;  

   •    In the case of accounts with different annual percentage rates (“APR”) on different balances, prohibit the application of payments to the lowest-rate balances first;  

   •    Prohibit the imposition of a higher or default APR on existing balances unless an account is 30 days past due; and  

   •    Require that consumers be provided with a certain, reasonable amount of time to make credit card payments.  

These amendments become effective on July 1, 2010. We are still evaluating the final amendments and their resulting impact on our business. While we anticipate making changes to our products that are designed to lessen the impact of these changes, there is no assurance that we will be successful. If we are not able to lessen the impact of these changes, they will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

In addition, regulators and Congress are continuing their scrutiny of our industry’s pricing, finance charges and practices relating to its customers, including increases in APRs and fees. Any legislative or regulatory restrictions on our ability to price our services and manage our business practices freely could materially and adversely affect our transaction volume and revenues.  

Banks, card issuers and card network operators generally are the subject of increasing global regulatory focus, which may impose costly new compliance burdens on our company and lead to decreased transaction volumes and revenues through our network.  

We are subject to regulations that affect banks and the payments industry in the United States and many other countries in which our charge and credit Cards are used and where we conduct banking and Card activities. In particular, we are subject to numerous regulations applicable to financial institutions in the United States and abroad. We are also subject to regulations as a provider of services to financial institutions. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. For example, we are subject to certain provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act as amended by the Patriot Act, with regard to maintaining effective anti-money laundering programs. Increased regulatory focus in this area could result in additional obligations or restrictions with respect to the types of products and services that we may offer to consumers, the countries in which our   

68  

Table of Contents 

 charge and credit Cards may be used, and the types of cardholders and merchants who can obtain or accept our charge and credit Cards. In addition, the European Union has adopted a new legislative directive, called the Payment Services Directive, for electronic payment services, including cards, that puts in place a common legal framework for licensing and supervision of payment services providers, including card issuers and merchant acquirers, and for their conduct of business.  

The U.S. Congress is also presently considering, or may consider, legislative initiatives in the area of Internet transactions, such as Internet prescription drug purchases and copyright and trademark infringement, among others, that could impose additional compliance burdens on our Company. Federal and state law enforcement authorities have also contacted payment companies concerning these issues. If implemented, these initiatives may require us to monitor, filter, restrict, or otherwise oversee various categories of charge and credit card transactions, thereby increasing our costs or decreasing our transaction volumes. Various regulatory agencies and legislatures are also considering regulations covering identity theft, account management guidelines, disclosure rules, security, and marketing that would impact us directly, in part due to increased scrutiny of our underwriting standards. These new requirements may restrict our ability to issue charge and credit cards or partner with other financial institutions, which could decrease our transaction volumes. In some circumstances, new regulations could have the effect of limiting our ability to offer new types of charge or credit cards or restricting our ability to offer existing Cards, such as stored value cards, which could materially and adversely reduce our revenues and revenue growth.  

In recent years, regulators in several countries outside the United States have focused on the fees involved in the operation of card networks, including the fees merchants are charged to accept cards. Regulators in the United Kingdom, Poland, Germany, Hungary, the European Union (EU), Australia, Mexico, and Venezuela, among others, have conducted investigations that are either ongoing or on appeal. The collectively-set interchange fee, which is the fee paid by the bankcard merchant acquirer to the card issuing bank in “four party” payment networks, like Visa and MasterCard, is generally the largest component of the merchant service charge charged to merchants for bankcard debit and credit card acceptance in these systems. By contrast, the American Express network does not have collectively-set interchange fees. Although the regulators’ focus has primarily been on Visa and MasterCard as the dominant card networks and on their operations on a multilateral basis, antitrust actions and government regulation of the bankcard associations’ pricing could ultimately affect all networks. Lower interchange and/or merchant discount revenue may lead card issuers to look for other sources of revenue such as higher annual card fees or interest charges, as well as to reduce costs by scaling back or eliminating rewards programs.  

In the United States, Congress continues to debate the interchange issue. There have been several hearings on Visa/MasterCard interchange over the last two years, and at the request of Congress, the Government Accountability Office completed a study on the cost of credit card acceptance to federal agencies and is undertaking a study on the structure of interchange fees and their impact on small merchants. In 2008, federal legislation was introduced that would give all U.S. merchants antitrust immunity to negotiate collectively the price and terms of card acceptance on networks with at least a 20% share of U.S. credit and debit card payments combined, with a default process for having prices and terms set through government action rather than competitive forces. One version of this legislation, the Credit Card Fair Fee Act (“CCFFA”), was passed in the House Judiciary Committee. As drafted, this legislation would not apply to the American Express network, but, if enacted, would have an effect on American Express in the marketplace. It is expected that Congressional hearings will continue and some version of the CCFFA will be introduced again in 2009. The Federal Reserve and various Federal Reserve Banks have been following developments on interchange and have held several conferences focused on interchange rates. While the Federal Reserve has expressed interest in monitoring this issue, it has not indicated the need to regulate interchange rates in the United States.  

Increased regulatory focus on our Company, such as in connection with the matters discussed above, may increase our compliance costs or result in a reduction of transactions processed on our networks or merchant discount revenues from such transactions, which could materially and adversely impact our financial performance.  

69  

Table of Contents 

If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, and invest successfully in, and compete at the leading edge of, technological developments across all our businesses, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected.  

Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes. In order to compete in our industry, we need to continue to invest in business process and technology advances across all areas of our business, including in transaction processing, data management, customer interactions and communications, travel reservations systems, prepaid products, alternative payment mechanisms and risk management and compliance systems. We rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors and potential competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new technologies applicable to the payments industry will continue to emerge, and these new technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our Cards, networks and other services. Our ability to develop, acquire, or access competitive technologies or business processes on acceptable terms may be limited by patent rights that third parties, including competitors and potential competitors, may assert. In addition, our ability to adopt new technologies that we develop may be inhibited by a need for industry-wide standards or by resistance from Cardmembers or merchants to such changes.  

We rely on a variety of measures to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, including copyrights, trademarks, patents and controls on access and distribution. These measures may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information and a resulting loss of competitive advantage. In addition, competitors or other third parties may allege that our systems, processes or technologies infringe their intellectual property rights. Given the complex, rapidly changing and competitive technological and business environment in which we operate and the potential risks and uncertainties of intellectual property related litigation, we cannot assure you that a future assertion of an infringement claim against us will not cause us to lose significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant monetary damages.  

Changes to the accounting treatment of securitization transactions could materially adversely affect our financial condition, reserve requirements, capital requirements, liquidity, cost of funds and operations.  

The Financial Accounting Standards Board has proposed amendments that would significantly affect the accounting for off-balance sheet securitization activities, which could, if ultimately adopted, result in the Company having to consolidate approximately $29 billion (as of December 31, 2008) of assets and liabilities of the Lending Trust. This consolidation would also require the Company to reestablish loss reserves of approximately $1.8 billion (as of December 31, 2008), which would reduce the Company’s regulatory capital ratios at the bank holding company level. The consolidation of the Lending Trust would primarily impact the Company’s Centurion Bank and AEBFSB banking subsidiaries. Any consolidation of the Lending Trust could increase the Company’s, Centurion Bank’s and AEBFSB’s risk-weighted assets on their respective balance sheets and thus increase the capital needed to maintain our regulatory capital levels.  

If our banking subsidiaries were to fail to meet their regulatory capital requirements, we would become subject to restrictions that could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct normal operations, our liquidity and our cost of funds, such as limiting our ability to issue brokered deposits. In addition, changes to the accounting treatment for securitizations may result in an inability to achieve bankruptcy remote status for the securitization trusts and prevent issuance from the trusts of highly rated investor interests.  

We cannot at this time predict the terms and conditions of any final amendments to be promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or the impact of any such amendments, including whether, when and in what form any transfers that currently qualify as sales will be recognized on our balance sheet; what effect the recognition of transfers would have on capital, capital requirements, the ability to maintain a sufficient level of receivables in the trust, or our results of operations; the impact of the amendments on the market for asset-backed securities; whether the amendments will cause us to execute fewer securitizations; whether the amendments will   

70  

Table of Contents 

 trigger the breach of any financial covenants in our credit facility; or what effect the amendments will have on our credit ratings or the credit ratings of debt issued by the trust.  

Regulation in the areas of privacy and data security could increase our costs and decrease the number of charge and credit cards issued.  

We are subject to regulations related to privacy and data security, and we could be negatively impacted by these regulations. For example, in the United States, we are subject to the data security rule under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The data security rule requires that each financial institution develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate to the financial institution’s size and complexity, the nature and scope of the financial institution’s activities, and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. The heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security, including requiring consumer notification in the event of a data breach, continues. The new 111th Congress will likely consider data security/data breach legislation in 2009 that, if implemented, could affect us.  

In addition, over 40 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia have enacted security breach legislation, requiring varying levels of consumer notification in the event of a security breach. In addition, several states are considering legislation requiring certain data security standards that could result in higher technology costs for the Company. In 1995, the European Parliament and Council passed European Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (commonly referred to as the Data Protection Directive), which obligates the controller of an individual’s personal data to take the necessary technical and organizational measures to protect personal data. The Data Protection Directive has been implemented through local laws regulating data protection in European Union Member States.  

Regulation of privacy and data security may materially increase our costs and may decrease the number of our cards that we issue, or restrict our ability to fully exploit our closed-loop capability, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our failure to comply with the privacy and data security laws and regulations to which we are subject could result in fines, sanctions and damage to our global reputation and our brand.  

Our success is dependent, in part, upon our executive officers and other key personnel, and the loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business.  

Our success depends, in part, on our executive officers and other key personnel. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. Our senior management team is relatively small and we believe we are in a critical period of competition in the financial services and payments industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive, and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel or candidates to replace or succeed members of our senior management team or other key personnel. In addition, as a current participant in the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to provisions contained in the recently enacted American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, which contains significant limitations on the amount and form of bonus, retention and other incentive compensation that we may pay to our executive officers and other members of senior management. These provisions could further affect our ability to attract and retain our executive officers and other key personnel. The loss of key personnel could materially adversely affect our business.  

Litigation and regulatory actions could subject us to significant fines, penalties and/or requirements resulting in increased expenses.  

Businesses in the credit card industry have historically been subject to significant legal actions, including class action lawsuits and patent claims. Many of these actions have included claims for substantial compensatory or   

71  

Table of Contents 

 punitive damages. In addition, we may be involved in various actions or proceedings brought by governmental regulatory agencies in the event of noncompliance with laws or regulations, which could subject us to significant fines, penalties or other requirements resulting in increased expenses.  

Business Risks  

Our operating results may suffer because of substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the payments industry.  

The payments industry is highly competitive and includes, in addition to charge and credit card networks, evolving alternative payment mechanisms and systems. We are the third largest general-purpose charge and credit card network based on charge volume, behind Visa and MasterCard, which are larger than we are in most markets. As a result, other card issuers may be able to benefit from the strong position and marketing and pricing power of Visa and MasterCard. Because of continuing consolidations among banking and financial services companies and credit card portfolio acquisitions by major card issuers, there are now a smaller number of significant issuers. Continuing consolidation in the banking industry may result in a financial institution with a strong relationship with us being acquired by an institution that has a strong relationship with a competitor, resulting in a potential loss of business for us. The largest competing issuers have continued to grow, in several cases by acquiring card portfolios, and also by cross-selling through their retail branch networks, and competition among all issuers remains intense. We are also subject to increasing pricing pressure from our competitors. In addition, some of our competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer a wider range of programs and services than we offer or may use more effective advertising and marketing strategies to achieve broader brand recognition or merchant acceptance than we have. We may not continue to be able to compete effectively against these threats. In addition, our competitors may be more efficient in introducing innovative products, programs and services than we are. As a result, our revenue or profitability may decline.  

We face increasingly intense competitive pressure that may impact the prices we charge merchants who accept our cards for payment for goods and services.  

Unlike our competitors in the payments industry that rely on high revolving credit balances to drive profits, our business model is focused on Cardmember spending. Discount revenue, which represents fees charged to merchants when Cardmembers use their Cards to purchase goods and services on our network, is primarily driven by billed business volumes and is our largest single revenue source. In recent years, we have been under market pressure to reduce merchant discount rates and undertake other repricing initiatives. This pressure arises, in part, due to the regulatory pressure on our competitors outside the United States, which has been increasing. If we continue to experience a decline in the average merchant discount rate we charge merchants or are unable to sustain premium merchant discount rates on our Cards without experiencing overall volume growth or an increase in merchant coverage, our revenues and profitability could be materially and adversely affected.  

We may not be able to increase consumer and business spending and borrowing on our payment services products or manage the costs of our Cardmember benefits intended to stimulate such use.  

Our business is characterized by the high level of spending by our Cardmembers. Increasing consumer and business spending and borrowing on our payment services products, particularly credit and charge Cards and Travelers Cheques and other prepaid products, and growth in Card lending balances, depend in part on our ability to develop and issue new or enhanced Card and prepaid products and increase revenues from such products, and is impacted by economic conditions beyond our control that reduce our Cardmembers’ spending, such as the current economic downturn affecting global markets. Increasing revenues also depends on our ability to attract new Cardmembers, reduce Cardmember attrition, increase merchant coverage, and capture a greater share of customers’ total spending on Cards issued on our network, both in the United States and in our international operations. One of the ways in which we attract new Cardmembers is through our Membership Rewards   

72  

Table of Contents 

 program, as well as other Cardmember benefits. We may not be able to cost effectively manage and expand Cardmember benefits, including containing the growth of marketing, promotion and rewards expenses and Cardmember services expenses. In addition, many credit card issuers have instituted rewards programs that are similar to ours, and issuers may in the future institute rewards programs that are more attractive to cardmembers than our programs. If we are not successful in increasing consumer and business spending or in managing the costs of our Cardmember benefits, our revenues and profitability could be negatively affected.  

Our brand and reputation are key assets of our Company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace.  

Our brand and its attributes are key assets of the Company. Our ability to attract and retain consumer Cardmembers and corporate clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices and financial condition. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters could damage our reputation among existing and potential Cardmembers and corporate clients, which could make it difficult for us to attract new Cardmembers and maintain existing ones. Adverse developments with respect to our industry may also, by association, negatively impact our reputation, or result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny or litigation against us. Although we monitor developments for areas of potential risk to our reputation and brand, negative perceptions or publicity could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability.  

An increase in account data breaches and fraudulent activity using our Cards could lead to reputational damage to our brand and could reduce the use and acceptance of our charge and credit Cards.  

We and other third parties store Cardmember account information in connection with our charge and credit Cards. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to capture various types of information relating to Cardmembers’ accounts, including Membership Rewards accounts, to engage in illegal activities such as fraud and identity theft. As outsourcing and specialization become a more acceptable and common way of doing business in the payments industry, there are more third parties involved in processing transactions using our Cards. If data breaches or fraud levels involving our Cards were to rise, it could lead to regulatory intervention (such as mandatory card reissuance) and reputational and financial damage to our brand, which could reduce the use and acceptance of our Cards, and have a material adverse impact on our business.  

We have agreements with business partners in a variety of industries, including the airline industry, that represent a significant portion of our billed business. We are exposed to the risk of downturns in these industries, including bankruptcies, restructurings and consolidations of our partners, and the possible obligation to make payments to our partners.  

In the ordinary course of our business we enter into different types of contractual arrangements with business partners in a variety of industries. For example, we have partnered with Costco and Delta Air Lines to offer co-branded cards for consumers and small businesses, and through our Membership Rewards program we have partnered with businesses in many industries, most notably the airline industry, to offer benefits to Cardmember participants. The airline industry represents a significant portion of our billed business and in recent years has undergone bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events. In addition, under some types of these contractual arrangements, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, we may be obligated to make payments to certain co-brand partners, merchants, vendors and customers. If we are not able to effectively manage the triggering events, we could unexpectedly have to make payments to these partners, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are also exposed to risk from bankruptcies, restructurings, consolidations and other similar events that may occur in any industry representing a significant portion of our billed business, which could negatively impact particular card products and services (and billed business generally) and our financial condition and results of operations. For example, we could be materially impacted if we were obligated to or elected to reimburse Cardmembers for products and services purchased from merchants that are bankrupt or have ceased operations.  

73  

Table of Contents 

There could be continued significant consolidation in the airline industry, particularly in the United States. We would not expect consolidation to have any significant effect on our merchant relationships with the airlines. However, airlines are also some of the most important and valuable partners in our Membership Rewards program. If a participating airline merged with an airline that did not participate in Membership Rewards, the combined airline would have to determine whether or not to continue participation. Similarly, if one of our co-brand airline partners merged with an airline that had a competing co-brand card, the combined airline would have to determine which co-brand cards it would offer. If a surviving airline determined to withdraw from Membership Rewards or to cease offering an American Express co-brand card, our business could be adversely affected. For additional information relating to the agreements with Delta and general risks related to the airline industry, see “Financial Review—Exposure to Airline Industry” on pages 56-57 of our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is hereby incorporated by reference.  

Our reengineering and other cost control initiatives may not prove successful, and we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended.  

We have regularly undertaken, and are currently considering undertaking, a variety of efforts to reengineer our business operations in order to achieve cost savings and other benefits (including the reinvestment of such savings in key areas such as marketing, promotion and rewards), enhance revenue-generating opportunities and improve our operating expense to revenue ratio both in the short-term and over time. These efforts include cost management, structural and strategic measures such as vendor, process, facilities and operations consolidation, outsourcing functions (including, among others, technologies operations), relocating certain functions to lower cost overseas locations, moving internal and external functions to the Internet to save costs and planned staff reductions relating to certain of these reengineering actions. If we do not successfully achieve these efforts in a timely manner or if we are not able to capitalize on these efforts, we may not realize all or a significant portion of the benefits we intended. Failure to achieve these benefits could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective.  

We must effectively manage credit risk related to consumer debt, business loans, settlement risk with regard to GNS partners, merchant bankruptcies, the rate of bankruptcies, and other credit trends which can affect spending on card products, debt payments by individual and corporate customers and businesses that accept our card products.  

Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default. We are exposed to both consumer credit risk, principally from Cardmember receivables and our other consumer lending activities, and institutional credit risk from merchants and GNS partners. Third parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Country, regional and political risks are components of credit risk. Rising delinquencies and rising rates of bankruptcy are often precursors of future write-offs and may require us to increase our reserve for loan losses. Higher write-off rates and an increase in our reserve for loan losses adversely affect our profitability and the performance of our securitizations, and may increase our cost of funds.  

Although we make estimates to provide for credit losses in our outstanding portfolio of loans and receivables, these estimates may not be accurate. In addition, the information that we use in managing our credit risk may be inaccurate or incomplete. Although we regularly review our credit exposure to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to foresee or detect, such as fraud. We may also fail to receive full information with respect to the credit risks of our customers.  

We must also effectively manage market risk to which we are exposed. Market risk represents the loss in value of portfolios and financial instruments due to adverse changes in market variables. We are exposed to   

74  

Table of Contents 

 market risk from interest rates in our Card business and in our investment portfolios. Changes in the interest rates at which we borrow and lend money affect the value of our assets and liabilities. If the rate of interest we pay on our borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans, our net interest yield, and consequently our net income, could fall.  

We must also accurately estimate the fair value of the assets in our investment portfolio and, in particular, those investments that are not readily marketable, including the valuation of the interest-only strip (commonly referred to as the I/O strip) arising from our securitization of credit Card receivables.  

Additionally, we must also effectively manage liquidity risk to which we are exposed. Liquidity risk is defined as the inability to access cash and equivalents needed to meet business requirements and satisfy our obligations. If we are unsuccessful in managing our liquidity risk, we may maintain too much liquidity, which can be costly and limit financial flexibility, or we may be too illiquid, which could result in financial distress during a liquidity event. For additional information regarding our management of liquidity risk, see “Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital “ above.  

Finally, we must also manage the operational risks to which we are exposed. We consider operational risk to be the risk of not achieving our business objectives due to failed processes, people or information systems, or from the external environment, such as natural disasters. Operational risks include the risk that we may not comply with specific regulatory or legal requirements, exposing us to fines and/or penalties and possibly brand damage; employee error or intentional misconduct that results in a material financial misstatement; or a failure to monitor an outsource partner’s compliance with a service level agreement, resulting in economic harm to us.  

Although we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective. See “Financial Review—Risk Management” on pages 42-46 of our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders for a discussion of the policies and procedures we use to identify, monitor and manage the risks we assume in conducting our businesses. Management of credit, market and operational risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective.  

If our global network systems are disrupted or we are unable to process transactions efficiently or at all, our revenue or profitability would be materially reduced.  

Our transaction authorization, clearing and settlement systems may experience service interruptions as a result of fire, natural disasters, power loss, disruptions in long distance or local telecommunications access, fraud, terrorism or accident. A natural disaster or other problem at our facilities could interrupt our services. Additionally, we rely on third-party service providers for the timely transmission of information across our global network. If a service provider fails to provide the communications capacity or services we require, as a result of natural disaster, operational disruption, terrorism or any other reason, the failure could interrupt our services, adversely affect the perception of our brands’ reliability and materially reduce our revenue or profitability.  

We rely on third-party providers of various computer systems and other services integral to the operations of our businesses. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business.  

We operate a service network around the world. In order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third party vendors many of the computer systems and other services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses. A significant amount of this outsourcing occurs in developing countries. We are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. In addition, the management of multiple third-party vendors   

75  

Table of Contents 

 increases our operational complexity and decreases our control. It is also possible that the cost efficiencies of certain outsourcings will decrease as the demand for these services increases around the world.  

Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements  

We have made various statements in this report that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may also be made in our other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, in our press releases and in other documents. In addition, from time to time, we, through our management, may make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those identified above, which could cause actual results to differ materially from such statements. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “optimistic,” “intend,” “plan,” “aim,” “will,” “may,” “should,” “could,” “would,” “likely” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We caution you that the risk factors described above are not exclusive. There may also be other risks that we are unable to predict at this time that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements.  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.  

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES