Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Our primary exposures to market risks are related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We seek to manage exposure to changes in interest rates where economically prudent to do so by utilizing fixed rate debt. We do not currently hedge against foreign currency exchange risks.

Interest Rate Risk

Our interest rate risk relates primarily to the impact of interest rate movements on the following, after giving effect to the WCP acquisition and the January 2012 refinancing:

•the potential refinancing of our existing debt ($8.0 billion and $6.9 billion of debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively);

•our $1.6 billion of floating rate debt representing approximately 20% of total debt compared to 11% in the prior year; and

•potential future borrowings of incremental debt.

Potential Refinancing of Existing Debt

Over the next 12 months we have no debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. We do not anticipate the need to access the capital markets to refinance our existing debt until at least 2015, which reflects the impact of refinancings that extended our debt maturities. As of December 31, 2011, we have no interest rate swaps hedging any refinancings. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview." 

Floating Rate Debt

We manage our exposure to market interest rates on our existing debt by controlling the mix of fixed and floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2011, after giving effect to the January 2012 refinancing and the WCP acquisition, we had $1.6 billion of floating rate debt. As a result, a hypothetical unfavorable fluctuation in market interest rates on our existing debt of two percentage points over a 12 month period would increase our interest expense by approximately $32 million.

Potential Future Borrowings of Incremental Debt

We typically do not hedge our exposure to interest rates on potential future borrowings of incremental debt for a substantial period prior to issuance. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" regarding our short-term liquidity strategy and note 20 to our consolidated financial statements regarding our January 2012 refinancing, including our undrawn revolving credit facility and delayed draw term loan.

34

The following table provides information about our market risk related to changes in interest rates. The future principal payments and weighted-average interest rates are presented as of December 31, 2011 and are after giving effect to the January 2012 refinancing and the WCP acquisition. These debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates, and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates of certain notes (see footnote (c)). See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 ____________________

(a)The fair value of our debt is based on indicative quotes (that is, non-binding quotes) from brokers that require judgment to interpret market information, including implied credit spreads for similar borrowings on recent trades or bid/ask offers. These fair values are not necessarily indicative of the amount, which could be realized in a current market exchange.

(b)The average interest rate represents the weighted-average stated coupon rate (see footnote (c)).

(c)The impact of principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates are not considered. The anticipated repayment dates are 2015, 2017 and 2020, as applicable for the 2010 tower revenue notes. As previously discussed, if the tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by the applicable anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by approximately 5% per annum and monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The tower revenue notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates ranging from 2035 to 2040 and include the impact of an assumed 5% increase in interest rate that would occur following the anticipated repayment dates but exclude the impact of monthly principal payments that would commence using Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The full year 2011 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes was approximately $456 million. The anticipated repayment date is 2015 for each class of the WCP securitized notes. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their rapid amortization date of 2017, monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes, The WCP securitized notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates in 2040. The full year 2011 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes was approximately $17 million. We acquired restricted cash of $29.5 million that if not spent on third party land interests by November 2012 will be required to be used to repay principal amounts outstanding on the WCP securitized debt. 

35

Foreign Currency Risk

The vast majority of our foreign currency risk is related to the Australian dollar which is the functional currency of CCAL. CCAL represented 6% of our consolidated revenues and 4% of our consolidated operating income for 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the Australian dollar exchange rate had strengthened compared to the U.S. dollar by approximately 12% from the average rate for 2010. See "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments."

Foreign exchange markets have recently been volatile, and we expect foreign exchange markets to continue to be volatile over the near term. We believe the risk related to our financial instruments (exclusive of inter-company financing deemed a long-term investment) denominated in Australian dollars is not significant to our financial condition. A hypothetical increase or decrease of 25% in Australian dollar exchange rate would increase or decrease the fair value of our financial instruments by approximately $8 million.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data