Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected.  

Risks Relating to our Business  

We may not be able to successfully integrate our recently acquired businesses, which may result in an inability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions.  

We continue to rationalize, coordinate and integrate the operations of our recently acquired businesses. This process involves complex technological, operational and personnel-related challenges, which are time-consuming   

22  

Table of Contents 

 and expensive and may disrupt our business. The difficulties, costs and delays that could be encountered may include:  

   •    unforeseen difficulties, costs or complications in combining the companies’ operations, which could lead to us not achieving the synergies we anticipate;  

   •    unanticipated incompatibility of systems and operating methods;  

   •    inability to use capital assets efficiently to develop the business of the combined company;  

   •    the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in both the U.S. and Europe, which may be different from each other;  

   •    resolving possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among the combined companies;  

   •    the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns and other strategic opportunities;  

   •    the integration of the respective businesses, operations and workforces;  

   •    unforeseen difficulties in operating acquired businesses in parallel with similar businesses that we operated previously;  

   •    unforeseen difficulties in operating businesses we have not operated before;  

   •    unanticipated difficulty of integrating multiple acquired businesses simultaneously;  

   •    the retention of key employees and management;  

   •    the implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls and financial reporting systems at non-U.S. subsidiaries to enable us to comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or U.S. GAAP, and U.S. securities laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, required as a result of our status as a reporting company under the Exchange Act;  

   •    the coordination of geographically separate organizations;  

   •    the coordination and consolidation of ongoing and future research and development efforts;  

   •    possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company;  

   •    pre-tax restructuring and revenue investment costs;  

   •    the retention of strategic partners and attracting new strategic partners; and  

   •    negative impacts on employee morale and performance as a result of job changes and reassignments.  

For these reasons, we may not achieve the anticipated financial and strategic benefits from our recent acquisitions. Any actual cost savings and synergies may be lower than we currently expect and may take a longer time to achieve than we currently anticipate, and we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the recent acquisitions.  

The global financial and credit market crises are ongoing and may adversely affect our business.  

Ongoing global financial turmoil has reduced the availability, and increased the cost, of credit and capital and reduced the value of financial assets. The economy has entered a recession. We continue to monitor the effects on our business of these events. The ongoing turmoil could reduce customer demand for our services and the ability of our customers, lenders and other counterparties to meet their obligations to us. For example, the consequences of a prolonged recession may include a decline in trading volume, deterioration of the economic welfare of our listed companies and a reduction in the demand for our products, including our market data, indexes and market technology.  

23  

Table of Contents 

We will need to invest in our operations to integrate our recent acquisitions and to maintain and grow our business, and we may need additional funds, which may not be readily available.  

We depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. Although we believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings under our existing credit facility, if the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility, access to capital or credit may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Limited access to capital or credit could have an impact on our ability to refinance debt, maintain our credit rating, meet our regulatory capital requirements, engage in strategic initiatives, make acquisitions or strategic investments in other companies or react to changing economic and business conditions. If we are unable to fund our capital or credit requirements, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

In addition to our debt obligations, we will need to continue to invest in our operations for the foreseeable future to integrate our recently acquired businesses. If we do not achieve the expected operating results, we will need to reallocate our cash resources. This may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business or to integrate the recently acquired businesses.  

Should we need to raise funds through issuing additional equity, our equity holders will suffer dilution. Should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in the indenture governing our notes or our other debt instruments. Furthermore, if adverse economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations which could affect our ability to satisfy financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness.  

Our leverage limits our financial flexibility, increases our exposure to weakening economic conditions and may adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing.  

Our indebtedness as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $2.5 billion. In connection with the closing of our business combination with OMX AB on February 27, 2008, we incurred a significant amount of indebtedness, including the issuance of $475 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2013 and the borrowing of $1,050.0 million of senior secured loans under our credit facilities. On July 24, 2008 in connection with our acquisition of PHLX, we borrowed an additional $650.0 million of senior secured loans under our credit facilities. On August 27, 2008, in connection with our acquisition of certain businesses of Nord Pool, we borrowed an additional $300.0 million of senior secured loans under our credit facilities. We may also borrow up to an additional $75.0 million under a revolver that is part of our credit facilities.  

Our leverage could:  

   •    reduce funds available to us for operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness;  

   •    increase our exposure to a continued downturn in general economic conditions;  

   •    place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; and  

   •    affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures or other purposes.  

In addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. Among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, sell assets, make certain payments, conduct transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate. Failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our   

24  

Table of Contents 

 credit facilities could result in an event of default. If an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings, accelerate all amounts outstanding or enforce their interest against all collateral pledged.  

A decrease in trading volume will decrease our trading revenues.  

Trading volume is directly affected by economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance, unforeseen market closures or other disruptions in trading, the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. The current recession may reduce trading volumes across our markets. Because a significant percentage of our revenues is tied directly to the volume of securities traded on our markets, it is likely that a general decline in trading volumes would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results. Declines in volumes may also impact our market share or pricing structures.  

Current economic conditions could adversely affect our market data revenues.  

Market data revenues may be significantly affected by the global economic and credit markets crises. Professional subscriptions to our market data are at risk due to the extensive layoffs and staff reductions announced throughout the financial services industry. As these reductions occur, we may see significant reductions in our professional user revenue from our market data. While volatility in the markets may help the non-professional segment of our market data subscribers, the global loss of wealth and the steep decline in markets may cause a reduction in the number of non-professional investors who leave their investments in the market. Therefore, we may see a declining population of non-professional investors, which could result in lower non-professional subscriptions to our market data.  

Declines in the initial public offering market could have an adverse effect on our revenues.  

The pace of initial public offerings has declined to levels not seen since the 1970s. The outlook for recovery in the market for initial public offerings is closely tied to the availability of risk capital which may not return to historic levels for some time following the 2008 credit crisis. Stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on The NASDAQ Stock Market and the exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, and thus our related revenues. We recognize revenue from new listings on The NASDAQ Stock Market on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. As a result, a stagnant market for initial public offerings could cause a decrease in deferred revenues for future years. Furthermore, as initial public offerings are typically actively traded following their offering date, a prolonged decrease in the number of initial public offerings could negatively impact the growth of our transactions revenues.  

The global economic turmoil may affect the ability of our listed companies to comply with our listing requirements.  

Global economic conditions may jeopardize the ability of our listed companies to comply with the continued listing requirements of our exchanges. For example, companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market are required to achieve at least a $1 closing bid price for a period of 30 consecutive business days, and listed companies are also required to comply with thresholds regarding the market level of their publicly held shares. Given the current extraordinary market conditions, The NASDAQ Stock Market has temporarily suspended these requirements, with the approval of the SEC, until April 19, 2009. If global economic conditions do not improve by this deadline and we are unable to further extend the suspension of our listing requirements, we may see an increase in companies delisting from our markets, either voluntarily or involuntarily. A reduction in the number of our listed companies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.  

25  

Table of Contents 

The securities market business is highly competitive.  

We face competition from numerous entities in the securities market industry, including competition for trading services, listings, and indexes from other exchanges and market centers. This competition includes both product and price competition and could increase as a result of the registration of new exchanges and market centers in the United States and Europe.  

In addition, the liberalization and globalization of world markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition. Both in the U.S. and in other countries, the competition among exchanges and other execution venues has become more intense.  

In the last several years, the structure of the securities industry has changed significantly through demutualizations and consolidations. In response to growing competition, many marketplaces in both Europe and the United States have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. The securities industry is also experiencing consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. In addition, a high proportion of business in the securities market is becoming increasingly concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers.  

Examples of these new competitive forces include:  

   •    the creation of NYSE Euronext, Inc. in April 2007 and its subsequent acquisition of Amex;  

   •    ECNs operating in the U.S. cash equities trading market, such as Direct Edge and Lava Flow;  

   •    new U.S. exchanges, such as BATS;  

   •    the announced acquisition of the equity exchange business of the International Securities Exchange by the Direct Edge ECN;  

   •    the combination of Deutsche Börse AG and International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc.;  

   •    active alternative equity trading platforms in Europe such as Equiduct, Chi-X, Turquoise, BATS and Plus Markets;  

   •    active alternative trade reporting platforms in Europe such as Reuters Trade Publication and Markit BOAT;  

   •    a number of investment banks have announced a multilateral trading facility in the Nordic region, also known as Burgundy;  

   •    a number of investment banks have announced alternative derivative trading platforms in Europe such as Rainbow and Best;  

   •    the announced launch of multilateral equity trading facilities in Europe backed by incumbent exchanges, such as Baikal and NYSE Arca Europe, by the LSE and NYSE Euronext, respectively;  

   •    the trend toward partial re-mutualization, whereby exchanges, ECNs, and multilateral trading facilities have investment agreements with other participants in the securities industry;  

   •    the globalization of electronic trading systems specializing in large volume trades, such as LiquidNet, Pipeline Trading and Investment Technology Group’s POSIT platform; and  

   •    global electronic interdealer brokers, such as ICAP.  

Because of these market trends, we face intense competition. Competitors may develop market trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business.  

The securities trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. We have in the past lowered prices and in the U.S. increased market data rebates for trade executions to attempt to gain or maintain market share. These strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. Additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which adversely impacts operating results. We are also subject to potential price competition from new competitors and from new and existing regulated markets and multilateral trading facilities.  

The securities trading industry also competes with respect to the pricing of market data. In addition, we are subject to price competition with respect to products for pre-trade book data and for post-trade last sale data. In the future, our competitors may offer market data rebates for quotes and trades on their systems. The success of competitors for trade executions, pressure from users for lower data fees and regulatory changes could also affect our non-U.S. market data business.  

Our U.S. trade reporting facility (which we operate jointly with FINRA for the purpose of accepting reports of off-exchange trades) faces competition from the trade reporting facility operated jointly with FINRA by the NYSE. Our U.S. trade reporting facility also faces competition from FINRA’s alternative display facility. Our competitors’ market data rebate programs for trade reporting could lead to a loss of market share and decreased revenues.  

We face significant competition in our securities trading business, which could reduce our transactions and trade reporting revenues and negatively impact our financial results.  

The NASDAQ Stock Market competes for trading of securities listed on NASDAQ, NYSE and NYSE Alternext. Any decision by market participants to quote, execute or report their trades in the U.S. through other exchanges, ECNs or the alternative display facility maintained by FINRA, could have a negative impact on our share of quotes and trades in securities traded through our platform. In particular, NYSE Euronext has enhanced its electronic trading capabilities, which compete directly with ours and may result in NYSE Euronext’s trading volume increasing to our detriment. The acquisition of Amex enhances NYSE Euronext’s scale in U.S. options, ETFs, closed-end funds, structured products and cash equities. If NYSE Euronext or any other competitor succeeds in attracting disproportionately more trading volume, this may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

The exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic and our multilateral trading facility, NASDAQ OMX Europe, also compete for the trading of securities. Any decision by market participants to quote, execute or report their trades in Europe through another regulated market or multilateral trading facility could have a negative impact on our share of quotes and trades in securities traded through the exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic and through NASDAQ OMX Europe.  

The implementation of MiFID increases competition for quoting, trade execution and reporting revenues in Europe.  

Our competitive position could be adversely affected by legislation and regulation implementing MiFID, which required all European Union countries to have MiFID regulation in force by November 1, 2007. MiFID is intended to create a unified European financial services market, with common regulation regarding investments and trading in European Union countries. MiFID enables greater transparency and competition among exchanges (regulated markets), investment firms and banks that internalize their order flow (systematic internalizers), and multilateral trading facilities. MiFID encourages competition for quotation, trade execution, trade reporting and market data distribution and introduces a European-wide requirement for best execution by requiring investment firms to establish and publish execution policies for all traded instruments.  

27  

Table of Contents 

MiFID provides that trades may be executed on regulated markets, on multilateral trading facilities via over-the-counter trading or through systematic internalization. As a result, MiFID creates an opportunity for exchanges, new multilateral trading facilities, over-the-counter and internalization arrangements to be developed on either a single country or a pan-European basis, thereby removing entry barriers and facilitating entry of alternative off-exchange trading facilities and increasing the attractiveness of such alternative facilities to users. In addition, investment firms will have to ensure that they obtain the “best execution” conditions for their clients, and will therefore have to direct orders to the most favorable execution venue, without any regulatory incentive to favor established regulated markets.  

Taken together, these changes to the regulatory environment are making it easier for multilateral trading facilities to establish themselves in Europe as low-cost alternatives to regulated exchanges, thereby increasing the level of competition with and between market operators. The exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic face competition from other exchanges as well as from multilateral trading facilities and alternative trading systems, and this competition may intensify in the near future especially as technological advances create pressure to reduce the costs of trading. Increased competition from alternative trading facilities and operators could cause us to lose market share or to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, either of which could lead to lower revenues and/or lower margins, harming profitability.  

The market data business faces significant competitive threats.  

The quality of our market data products is closely related to our transactions business. Maintaining or increasing our transactions market share in all our operating environments is important to the success of many of our market data products.  

In addition, our market data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. Consequently our data products must be competitive in speed, reliability, content and price to succeed in the marketplace. New exchanges and trading systems entering the market have recognized the strong connection between market data and transactions volume and new entrants could price their market data very aggressively in order to grow transactions volume thereby limiting our flexibility in pricing market data. Any action by a market participant to provide information to another exchange or market data vendor could have a negative impact on our data products. The market data business must also adapt to a rapidly changing information delivery technologies and constantly invest in innovative product design and development. Other market data providers may not face the regulatory obligations we face and may consequently be more flexible in pricing and more agile in deploying new products and business methods to our detriment.  

We must adapt to significant competition in our listing businesses.  

We must adapt to significant competition in our listing businesses from other exchanges. NYSE Euronext’s recent mergers and acquisitions has created a strong competitor of The NASDAQ Stock Market for listings of larger domestic and international companies. The exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic face competition from various European exchanges. In addition, on occasion, issuers may transfer their listings from our markets to other venues. While the reduction in initial listings or the loss of one or more large issuers could decrease our listing revenues, it could cause an even more significant decrease in revenues from the quoting, reporting and trading of those issuers’ securities.  

Our revenues may be affected by competition in the business for indexes, associated derivatives and other financial products.  

We have grown the business of our Global Index Group, which creates indexes and licenses them for NASDAQ OMX branded financial products. These financial products are subject to intense competition from other ETFs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. Our revenues may be adversely affected by increasing competition from competitors’ financial products and/or indexes designed to replicate or   

28  

Table of Contents 

 correlate with the performance of our indexes. In addition, the legal and regulatory climate, which supports the licensing of these indexes, has changed in a manner that may adversely impact our ability to successfully license our indexes. Further, many other entrants have recently emerged who not only compete with us for future growth opportunities, but who may also introduce indexes that erode the position of our current offerings, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results.  

Our revenues may be affected by competition in the business for market technology.  

We have a significant market technology business, which provides technology, operating, and advisory services for exchanges and markets around the world. The technology business is subject to intense competition from other exchanges, specialized market technology companies, and large generalized technology providers. Our revenues may be adversely affected by increasing competition from competitors whose offerings may be technologically superior, more attractively priced, or offer strategic benefits not directly related to product performance. Further, any intellectual property protections we may have on our market technologies may not be adequate to prevent key employees from departing and entering into direct competition with us. In addition, the legal and regulatory constraints on technology exports may limit which market technologies we can offer for sale.  

We may experience fluctuations in our operating results, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  

The financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control, including:  

   •    economic, political and geopolitical market conditions;  

   •    natural disasters, terrorism, war or other catastrophes;  

   •    broad trends in industry and finance;  

   •    changes in price levels and volatility in the stock markets;  

   •    the level and volatility of interest rates;  

   •    changes in government monetary or tax policy;  

   •    other legislative and regulatory changes;  

   •    the perceived attractiveness of the U.S. or European capital markets; and  

   •    inflation.  

Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reduced trading volume.  

Additionally, since borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates, any increase in interest rates on debt that we have not fixed using interest rate hedges will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. Other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. As a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. A substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. Our operating expense levels will be based on our expectations for future revenue. If actual revenue is below management’s expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Because of these factors, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. If this happens, the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected.  

29  

Table of Contents 

We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry.  

The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the introduction of new services and products and changing customer demands. If our platforms fail to function as expected, our business would be negatively affected. In addition, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully develop, introduce or market new services and products or if we need to adopt costly and customized technology for our services and products. Further, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, especially in our market technology business, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

System limitations, failures or security breaches could harm our business.  

Our businesses depend on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting them. If our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. These consequences could result in trade outages, lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. NASDAQ and the exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays.  

If our trading volume increases unexpectedly, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner.  

Our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, sabotage or terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. We have programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to these vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners. Although we currently maintain and expect to maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results.  

We are subject to risks relating to litigation, potential securities law liability and other liability.  

Many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. Although we are immune from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, this immunity only covers certain of our activities, and we could be exposed to liability under national and local laws, court decisions and rules and regulations promulgated by regulatory agencies.  

In the U.S., we are subject to oversight by the SEC, and our subsidiaries NFX and IDCG are subject to oversight by the CFTC. In the case of non-compliance with our obligations under either the securities or commodities laws, we could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties.  

Our non-U.S. business is regulated both at the national level in several countries and at the European Union level. Implementation and application of these regulations may be undertaken by one or more regulatory authorities, which may challenge compliance with one or more aspects of such regulations. If a regulatory authority makes a finding of non-compliance, conditional fines can be imposed and our licenses can be revoked.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Some of our other liability risks arise under the laws and regulations relating to the insurance, tax, anti-money laundering, technology export, foreign asset controls and foreign corrupt practices areas. Liability could also result from disputes over the terms of a trade, claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, claims we entered into an unauthorized transaction or claims that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a securities transaction. As we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred.  

The regulatory framework under which we operate and new regulatory requirements or new interpretations of existing regulatory requirements could require substantial time and resources for compliance, which could make it difficult and costly for us to operate our business.  

Our business is subject to extensive regulation. Under current U.S. federal securities laws, changes in NASDAQ’s rules and operations, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed and in many cases explicitly approved by the SEC. The SEC may approve, disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. In addition, the SEC may delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. Any delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We must compete not only with ECNs that are not subject to the same SEC approval process but also with other exchanges that have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. There is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation.  

In addition, our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC and NASDAQ Option Services, LLC are subject to regulation by the SEC, FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations. These subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. The SEC and FINRA impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the Uniform Net Capital Rule and NYSE and FINRA rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA for certain withdrawals of capital. Any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results.  

Our non-U.S. business is subject to regulatory oversight in all the countries in which we operate regulated businesses, such as operating exchanges or CSDs. The countries in which we currently operate regulated businesses are Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Armenia, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.  

In all the aforementioned countries, we have received authorization from the relevant authorities to conduct our regulated business activities. The authorities may revoke this authorization if we do not suitably carry out our regulated business activities. The authorities are also entitled to request that we adopt measures in order to ensure that we continue to fulfill the authorities’ requirements.  

Furthermore, we hold minority stakes in other regulated entities, and certain of our customers operate in a highly regulated industry. Regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our non-U.S. entities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use our European exchanges or NASDAQ OMX Europe. The loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on any of our European exchanges or NASDAQ OMX Europe as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Regulatory changes and changes in market structure, especially in response to the global economic crisis, could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

In recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets, have been subject to significant regulatory changes. Moreover, in the past few months, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to the global economic crisis. During the next year, it is likely that there will be significant changes in our regulatory environment, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time.  

Our market participants also operate in a highly regulated industry. The SEC, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, or SFSA, and other regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our market participants to use The NASDAQ Stock Market, our European exchanges or NASDAQ OMX Europe or could adversely affect The NASDAQ Stock Market, our European exchanges or NASDAQ OMX Europe. Regulatory changes by the SEC, the SFSA or other regulatory authorities could result in the loss of a significant number of market participants or a reduction in trading activity on The NASDAQ Stock Market, our European exchanges or NASDAQ OMX Europe.  

We have self-regulatory obligations and also operate for-profit businesses, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest.  

We have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on our markets and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our markets by market participants and listed companies. In the U.S., the SEC staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of “for-profit” markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. Although The NASDAQ Stock Market and, once fully implemented in March 2009, the markets operated or regulated by NASDAQ OMX BX, outsource the majority of their market regulation functions to FINRA, we do perform regulatory functions related to our listed companies and our markets. Any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our markets or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt SEC scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation.  

The exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic also monitor trading on those exchanges and compliance with listing standards. They monitor the listing of equities and other financial instruments. The prime objective of such monitoring activities is to maintain confidence in the exchanges among the general public. The monitoring functions within the exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic are the responsibility of the surveillance departments or other surveillance personnel. The surveillance departments or personnel are intended to strengthen the integrity of and confidence in the exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic and to avoid conflicts of interest. Any failure to diligently and fairly regulate the exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic could significantly harm our reputation, prompt scrutiny from regulators and adversely affect our business and reputation.  

Regulatory changes may have an adverse impact on our market data fees.  

A significant percentage of our market data revenue in the U.S. is derived from products subject to the three consolidated market information plans. As the formulas governing revenue allocations by those plans are subject to regulatory oversight, our revenue from the plans is at risk to any change in U.S. regulatory policy. In Europe, active regulatory discussions about the distribution of exchange information through consolidated plans may lead to policy decisions which negatively our market data revenues.  

We are exposed to counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets.  

We clear a range of equity-related and fixed-income-related derivative products. We assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that are cleared through our markets and guarantee that our cleared contracts   

32  

Table of Contents 

 will be honored. We enforce minimum financial and operational criteria for membership eligibility, require members and investors to provide collateral, and maintain established risk policies and procedures to ensure that the counterparty risks are properly monitored and pro-actively managed; however, none of these measures provides absolute assurance against defaults by our counterparties on their obligations. No guarantee can be given that the collateral provided will at all times be sufficient. Although we maintain clearing capital resources to serve as an additional layer of protection to help ensure that we are able to meet our obligations, these resources may not be sufficient. In addition, our high leverage could limit our flexibility in the operation of our clearing business.  

We are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents.  

We are exposed to credit risk from third parties, including customers, counterparties and clearing agents. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons.  

Our subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services may be exposed to credit risk, due to the default of trading counterparties, in connection with the clearing and routing services Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services provides for our trading customers. System trades in NASDAQ-listed securities, NYSE-listed securities and trades routed to other market centers for members of The NASDAQ Stock Market are cleared by Nasdaq Execution Services, as a member of the National Securities Clearing Corporation, or NSCC. System trades in derivative contracts for the opening and closing cross and trades routed to other market centers are cleared by NASDAQ Options Services, as a member of the OCC. Pursuant to the rules of the NSCC and Nasdaq Execution Services’ clearing agreement, Nasdaq Execution Services is liable for any losses incurred due to counterparty or a clearing agent’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. Pursuant to the rules of the OCC and NASDAQ Options Services’ clearing agreement, NASDAQ Options Services is also liable for any losses incurred due to counterparty or a clearing agent’s failure to satisfy its contractual obligations, either by making payment or delivering securities. Adverse movements in the prices of securities and derivative contracts that are subject to these transactions can increase our credit risk. Credit difficulties or insolvency or the perceived possibility of credit difficulties or insolvency of one or more larger or visible market participants could also result in market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions.  

In addition, through our NASDAQ OMX Stockholm clearing operations, we act as a counterparty in each transaction and thereby guarantee the fulfillment of each contract. We are required to pledge collateral for commitments with other clearinghouses.  

We also have credit risk related to transaction fees that are billed to customers on a monthly basis, in arrears. Our customers are financial institutions whose ability to satisfy their contractual obligations may be impacted by volatile securities markets.  

Credit losses such as those described above could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations.  

Failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.  

Our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. Competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. There is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. In particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior executive officers or other key employees who leave,   

33  

Table of Contents 

 and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner.  

We are highly dependent on the continued services of Robert Greifeld, our Chief Executive Officer, and Magnus Böcker, our President, and other executive officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. We do not have employment agreements with some of these key executive officers. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. The loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively.  

To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. The protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights.  

We have registered, or applied to register, our trademarks in the United States and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending U.S. and foreign applications for other trademarks. We also maintain copyright protection on our branded materials and pursue patent protection for software products, inventions and other processes developed by us. We also hold a number of patents, patent applications and licenses.  

Effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources.  

Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our businesses.  

One of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. Various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to:  

   •    the representation of our business in the media;  

   •    the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information;  

   •    the accuracy of our financial guidance or other information provided to our investors;  

   •    the quality of our corporate governance structure;  

   •    the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market data business and the accuracy of calculations used by our Global Index Group for indexes and unit investment trusts;  

   •    any negative publicity surrounding our listed companies;  

   •    security breaches, including any unauthorized delivery of proprietary data to third parties or physical security breaches;  

   •    management of our outsourcing partnerships, especially our relationship with FINRA; and  

   •    any misconduct or fraudulent activity by our employees or other persons formerly or currently associated with us.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchanges, as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchanges or cause us to lose customers in our market data, index or market technology businesses. This, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations, and any restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  

We are a holding company with no direct operating businesses other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. We require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or to pay dividends. Minimum capital requirements mandated by regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over some of our regulated subsidiaries indirectly restrict the amount of dividends paid upstream. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we may be unable to satisfy our obligations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.  

Future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities.  

Over the past year, our business combination with OMX AB, as well as our acquisitions of PHLX, BSX, certain businesses of Nord Pool and Bloom Partners have been significant factors in our growth. Although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that additional acquisitions or entering into partnership and joint ventures will be important to our growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. Therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us.  

We may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. The issuance of additional equity in connection with any such transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing shareholders. The issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. In addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our common stock. We could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt results in significant incremental leverage. Additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. Any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business.  

These equity, debt and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including:  

   •    problems with effective integration of operations;  

   •    the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships;  

   •    increased operating costs;  

   •    the diversion of our management team from its other operations;  

   •    problems with regulatory bodies;  

   •    exposure to unanticipated liabilities;  

   •    difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; and  

   •    changes in our credit rating and financing costs.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Our non-U.S. business operates in various emerging markets that are subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than developed countries.  

The operations of our non-U.S. business are subject to the risk inherent in international operations, including but not limited to, risks with respect to operating in Iceland, the Baltics, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Asia. Some of these economies may be subject to greater political, economic and social uncertainties than countries with more developed institutional structures. Political, economic or social events or developments in one or more of these countries could adversely affect our operations and financial results.  

We have invested substantial capital in system platforms, and a failure to successfully implement such systems could adversely affect our business.  

In our technology operations, we have invested substantial amounts in the development of system platforms. Although investments are carefully planned, there can be no assurance that the demand for such platforms will justify the related investments and that the future levels of orders will be sufficient to generate an acceptable return on such investments. If we fail to generate adequate revenue from planned system platforms, or if we fail to do so within the envisioned timeframe, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Because we have operations in several countries, we are exposed to currency risk.  

We have operations in the U.S., several of the Nordic and Baltic markets, the U.K. and many other foreign countries. We therefore have significant exposure to exchange rate movements between the Swedish Krona, Danish Krone, Icelandic Króna, Norwegian Krone, British Pound Sterling, Euro, U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. Significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates with respect to one or more of these currencies could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy or changes in local interest rates. These exchange rate differences will affect the translation of our non-U.S. results of operations and financial condition into U.S. dollars as part of the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

Our investment in NASDAQ Dubai may be unsuccessful and could harm us in other ways.  

In exchange for $50 million and the entry into certain licensing and technology agreements, we have acquired 33 1/3% of the outstanding equity of NASDAQ Dubai. We have also committed to providing additional capital of up to $25 million to NASDAQ Dubai under certain circumstances. Our investment in NASDAQ Dubai may not result in a return. Additionally, the licensing and technology agreements we have entered into with NASDAQ Dubai may have an adverse effect on our brand and on us. We may not be able to terminate these agreements or end our association with NASDAQ Dubai in a manner that would prevent lasting and potentially significant harm to our brand and reputation, particularly in certain key emerging markets. Our agreements with NASDAQ Dubai also prevent or limit us from seeking opportunities to grow our business in certain regions, and this may have a negative impact on us in the future.  

We may incur goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in the future.  

Our business acquisitions typically result in the recording of goodwill and intangible assets, and the recorded values of those assets may become impaired in the future. As of December 31, 2008, goodwill totaled approximately $5.4 billion and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled approximately $1.8 billion. The determination of the value of such goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value may be impaired. We assess potential impairments to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an   

36  

Table of Contents 

 asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and intangible assets are based on operational performance of our acquired businesses, market conditions, relevant trading multiples of comparable companies, the trading price of our common stock and other factors. Although there are inherent uncertainties in this assessment process, the estimates and assumptions we use are consistent with our internal planning. However, disruptions to our business, such as continued economic weakness and unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, may result in our having to perform a goodwill impairment test for some or all of our reporting units prior to the required annual assessment. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in the future. For goodwill, if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying value. For indefinite-lived intangible assets, impairment exists if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value.  

Charges to earnings resulting from acquisition, restructuring and integration costs may materially adversely affect the market value of our common stock.   

In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we are accounting for the completion of our acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting. We are allocating the total estimated purchase prices to net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and non-amortized intangibles, and based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the acquisitions, recording the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. Our financial results, including earnings per share, could be adversely affected by a number of financial adjustments required by U.S. GAAP including the following:  

   •    we will incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the acquisitions during such estimated useful lives;  

   •    we may have additional depreciation expense as a result of recording purchased tangible assets at fair value, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as compared to book value as recorded;  

   •    to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; and  

   •    we will incur certain adjustments to reflect the financial condition and operating results under U.S. GAAP and U.S. dollars.  

We have incurred costs associated with the acquisitions, including financial advisors’ fees and legal and accounting fees. In addition, we expect to incur costs associated with realizing synergies from the acquisitions. These costs may be substantial and may include those related to the severance and stock option acceleration provisions of employee benefit plans, as well as other exit costs. We face potential costs related to employee retention and deployment of physical capital and other integration costs. We have not yet determined the final amount of these costs. Costs that are not directly related to the acquisitions, including retention and integration costs, will be recorded as incurred and will negatively impact earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and the price of our common stock.  

In addition, from the date of the completion of the acquisitions, our results of operations include the acquired entities’ operating results, presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain of the acquired entities’ historical consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differ in certain material respects from U.S. GAAP. For instance, U.S. GAAP requires OMX to recognize revenue under certain of its technology contracts over the term of the contract rather than at the beginning of the contract. Accordingly, the U.S. GAAP presentation of OMX’s results of operations may not be comparable to OMX AB’s historical financial statements.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock  

Volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders.  

The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things:  

   •    actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results;  

   •    changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock;  

   •    conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace;  

   •    conditions or trends in the credit markets;  

   •    announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures;  

   •    announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us;  

   •    additions or departures of key personnel; and  

   •    sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, significant stockholders or our strategic investors.  

The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets.  

Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. As of December 31, 2008, there were 201,896,700 shares of our common stock outstanding. All of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our “affiliates,” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act.  

The number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to our stock compensation and stock award plan for our employees. There were 5,588,936 million options exercisable as of December 31, 2008 at a weighted average exercise price of $10.38. The number of shares of our common stock outstanding will also increase upon any conversion of our 3.75% convertible notes held by Silver Lake Partners, or SLP, and VAB Investors LLC, or VAB, and their respective affiliates, which are currently convertible at a conversion price of $14.50 per share into approximately 8,281,162 shares of our common stock. We have registered the shares underlying SLP, VAB and their affiliates’ notes, as well as shares of common stock they hold outright, on a Form S-3 registration statement, and those shares are freely transferable if sold pursuant to the registration statement.  

It is our intent and policy to settle the principal amounts of the 2.50% convertible notes in cash, which will not impact the number of shares of our common stock. However, we have the option to settle the conversion premium in shares of our common stock or cash. The conversion rate will initially be 18.1386 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which is equivalent to a conversion price of $55.13 per share of common stock.  

Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, approved exchange rules (including provisions included to address SEC concerns) and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management.  

Our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of persons (either alone or with related parties) owning more than 5% of   

38  

Table of Contents 

 the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter to 5% of voting power, other than any other person as may be approved by our board of directors prior to the time such person owns more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter. Any change to the 5% voting limitation would require SEC approval.  

In response to the SEC’s concern about a concentration of our ownership, NASDAQ’s rules include a rule prohibiting any NASDAQ member or any person associated with a member from beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. SEC consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. NASDAQ’s rules also require the SEC’s approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions.  

Our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management.  

Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws:  

   •    require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors;  

   •    do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings;  

   •    require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings;  

   •    require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and  

   •    authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval.  

Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. In general, Delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation’s board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Item 2. Properties.