Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this Item 7.  

The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we analyze revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network.  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  

2008 Results  

 •    Safety – We operated a safer railroad in 2008, improving safety for all of our employees, customers, and the communities where we operate. The employee injury incident rate per 200,000 man-hours declined 11% from 2007 to its lowest level ever. A continued focus on derailment prevention in 2008 resulted in a 14% reduction in incidents, with associated costs declining 7%. With respect to public safety, we closed 435 grade crossings to reduce our exposure to incidents. We also continued installing video cameras in our road locomotives and now have camera-equipped locomotives in the lead position of over 90% of our road trains. These video cameras allow us to better analyze grade crossing conditions and incidents, increasing safety for our employees and the public. The number of grade crossing incidents decreased 18% during the year, to the lowest number on record. Also, through extensive trespass reduction programs, we were able to reduce trespasser incidents by 9%. All of these improvements are the result of comprehensive efforts to enhance employee training, increase public education, make targeted capital investments, and take proactive steps to eliminate or reduce safety risks.  

 •    Financial Performance – In 2008, we generated operating income of $4.1 billion despite the recessionary economy. Yield increases, network management initiatives, and improved productivity drove the 21% increase in operating income, more than offsetting a 5% reduction in volume levels, which reflects deteriorating economic conditions during the year, particularly in the fourth quarter. Our operating ratio was 77.3% for the year, a 2 point improvement compared to 2007. Net income of $2.3 billion also exceeded our previous milestone, translating into earnings of $4.54 per diluted share.  

 •    Freight Revenues – Our freight revenues grew 11% year-over-year to $17.1 billion. We achieved record revenue levels in five of our six commodity groups, driven by better pricing and fuel cost recovery. Since 2004, we have repriced approximately 82% of our business. Overall, volume decreased 5% in 2008 due to the weakening economy, driving lower demand in several market sectors, particularly the automotive, domestic housing and construction markets.  

 •    Network Operations – In 2008, we significantly improved the fluidity and efficiency of our transportation network. Continued focus on increasing velocity, eliminating work events, improving asset utilization, and expanding capacity were key drivers of our operational improvement. Lower volume levels also contributed to the increased efficiency. We increased average train speed by 8%, reduced average terminal dwell time by 1%, and improved car utilization by 4% with ongoing enhancements to our Unified Plan (an ongoing program that streamlines segments of our transportation plan) and by implementing initiatives to make train processing at our terminals more efficient. We also expanded capacity and continued to use industrial engineering techniques to further improve network fluidity and improve asset utilization. Our customer satisfaction improved to record   

25  

Table of Contents 

 levels during 2008, an indication that efforts to improve network operations translated into better customer service.  

 •    Fuel Prices – Crude oil prices increased at a steady rate through the first seven months of 2008, closing at a record high of $145.29 a barrel in early July. As the economy worsened during the third and fourth quarters, fuel prices dropped dramatically, hitting $33.87 per barrel in December, a near five-year low. Despite these price declines toward the end of the year, our 2008 average fuel price increased by 39% and added $1.1 billion of operating expenses compared to 2007. Our fuel surcharge programs helped offset the impact of higher fuel prices. In addition, we reduced our consumption rate by 4%, saving approximately 58 million gallons of fuel during the year. The use of newer, more fuel efficient locomotives; our fuel conservation programs; improved network operations; and a shift in commodity mix, primarily due to growth in bulk shipments, contributed to the improvement.  

 •    Free Cash Flow – Cash generated by operating activities totaled a record $4.1 billion, yielding free cash flow of $825 million in 2008. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities, less cash used in investing activities and dividends paid.  

Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K. We believe free cash flow is important in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to generate cash without additional external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 Outlook  

 •    Safety – Operating a safe railroad benefits our employees, our customers, our shareholders, and the public. We will continue using a multi-faceted approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, quality control, and training and engaging our employees. We plan to continue implementation of Total Safety Culture (TSC) throughout our operations. TSC, an employee-focused initiative that has helped improve safety, is a process designed to establish, maintain, and promote safety among co-workers. With respect to public safety, we will continue our efforts to maintain, upgrade, and close crossings, install video cameras on locomotives, and educate the public about crossing safety through various Railroad and industry programs, along with other activities.  

 •    Transportation Plan – In 2009, we will continue to evaluate traffic flows and network logistic patterns to identify additional opportunities to simplify operations and improve network efficiency and asset utilization. We plan to maintain adequate manpower and locomotives, and improve productivity using industrial engineering techniques.  

 •    Fuel Prices – On average, we expect fuel prices to decrease substantially from the average price we paid in 2008. However, due to economic uncertainty, other global pressures, and weather incidents, fuel prices again could be volatile during the year. To reduce the impact of fuel price on earnings, we   

26  

Table of Contents 

 will continue to seek recovery from our customers through our fuel surcharge programs and expand our fuel conservation efforts.  

 •    Capital Plan – In 2009, we expect our total capital investments to be approximately $2.8 billion (which may be revised if business conditions or new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments). See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Plan.  

 •    Financial Expectations – We are cautious about the economic environment; however, we anticipate continued pricing opportunities, network improvement, and increased productivity in 2009.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Operating Revenues  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Freight revenues are revenues generated by transporting freight or other materials from our six commodity groups. Freight revenues vary with volume (carloads) and average revenue per car (ARC). ARC is driven by changes in price, traffic mix and fuel surcharges. As a result of contractual obligations with some of our customers, we have provided incentives for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes or shipping to and from specific locations, which we record as a reduction to freight revenues based on the actual or projected future shipments. We recognize freight revenues on a percentage-of-completion basis as freight moves from origin to destination. We allocate freight revenues between reporting periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them.  

Other revenues include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenues, which we earn when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as switching or storage. We recognize other revenues as we perform services or meet contractual obligations.  

Freight revenues from five of the six commodity groups increased during 2008, with particularly strong growth from agricultural and energy shipments. While revenues generated from chemical and industrial products shipments grew in 2008 compared to 2007, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike reduced shipments of these commodities. Revenues generated from automotive shipments declined versus 2007. Greater fuel cost recoveries and core pricing improvement combined to increase ARC during 2008. Fuel cost recoveries include fuel surcharge revenue and the impact of resetting the base fuel price for certain traffic, as described below in more detail. The severe economic downturn during the fourth quarter compounded already declining volumes experienced during the first nine months of 2008 due to ongoing weakness in certain market sectors. As a result, we moved fewer intermodal, automotive, industrial products, and chemical shipments, which more than offset volume growth from agricultural and energy shipments.  

Our fuel surcharge programs (excluding index-based contract escalators that contain some provision for fuel) generated $2.3 billion in freight revenues during 2008. Fuel surcharge revenue is not comparable to prior periods due to the implementation of new mileage-based fuel surcharge programs beginning in April 2007 for regulated traffic. As previously disclosed in our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K, the STB   

27  

Table of Contents 

 issued a decision limiting the manner in which U.S. railroads can calculate fuel surcharges on traffic regulated by the STB. Effective April 26, 2007, we implemented new fuel surcharge programs covering this regulated traffic, which represents approximately 19% of our revenue base. These new programs use mileage (as opposed to percent of revenue) as the basis for calculating fuel surcharges, and they use the On-Highway Diesel Price index – published by the Energy Information Administration – for purposes of determining fuel costs. The new programs affect fuel surcharges assessed for certain shipments of agricultural, chemical, and industrial products, and, to a lesser extent, coal. In addition, we reset the effective base fuel price at which our new mileage-based fuel surcharge programs take effect, resulting in a higher starting point of $2.30 per gallon versus $1.35 per gallon. We also converted a portion of our non-regulated traffic to mileage-based fuel surcharge programs. The resetting of the fuel price at which the fuel surcharge begins, in conjunction with rebasing the affected transportation rates to include a portion of what had been in the fuel surcharge, did not materially change our freight revenues, as higher base rates offset lower fuel surcharge revenue.  

Freight revenues from five of our six commodity groups increased during 2007, while revenues generated from industrial products shipments declined. ARC increased 6% during 2007 driven by core price improvement. Lower shipments of industrial and agricultural products drove volume down 1% in 2007, more than offsetting an increase in chemical shipments. Our fuel surcharge programs (excluding index-based contract escalators that contain some provision for fuel) generated $1.5 billion in freight revenues in 2007. Fuel surcharge revenues are not comparable to prior periods due to implementation of new mileage-based fuel surcharge programs for certain traffic, as described above.  

Other revenues increased in 2008 versus 2007 driven by higher revenues from both our commuter rail operations and our subsidiary that brokers intermodal services. Accessorial revenues also increased in both periods due to improved collection rates.  

The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads, and ARC by commodity type:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

28  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Agricultural Products – Price improvements, fuel surcharges, and volume growth generated higher agricultural freight revenue in 2008 versus 2007. Strong global demand for grain and a weak dollar drove higher shipments of corn and feed grains and shipments of wheat and food grains for 2008. Shipments of ethanol, a grain product used as an alternative fuel and fuel additive, and its co-products (primarily livestock feed) also increased. 

Price increases were the primary drivers of agricultural freight revenue in 2007 versus 2006, partially offset by a decline in volume levels. Shipments of whole grains used in feed declined as barge operators captured more shipments destined for export from the Gulf Coast due to both favorable barge rates and improved navigation conditions on the Mississippi River. Conversely, wheat and food grain shipments improved as a strong wheat crop generated record shipments to the Gulf Coast for export. Shipments of ethanol and its co-products also increased substantially.    

2008 Agricultural Revenue 

Automotive – Double-digit declines in shipments of both finished vehicles and auto parts drove freight revenue lower in 2008 compared to 2007. Price improvements and fuel surcharges partially offset these lower volumes. The manufacturers experienced poor sales and reduced vehicle production during 2008 due to the recessionary economy, which in turn reduced shipments of finished vehicles and parts. In addition, a major parts supplier strike reduced volume levels compared to 2007. Shipments of finished vehicles decreased 23% in 2008 versus 2007. 

In 2007, price increases drove the growth in automotive revenue, partially offset by lower finished vehicle shipments versus 2006. A decline in vehicle production levels primarily drove the volume decline. Conversely, automotive parts shipments grew due to increased volumes from domestic manufacturers, new business acquired in the middle of 2006, and our new intermodal train service between Mexico and Michigan.    

2008 Automotive Revenue 

29  

Table of Contents 

Chemicals – Price improvements and increased fuel surcharges drove higher revenue from chemicals shipments during 2008, which were partially offset by a decrease in volume levels compared to 2007. Weak market conditions and business interruptions in chemical producing areas resulting from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike all contributed to lower liquid and dry chemicals shipments. Plastics shipments also declined in part due to the impact of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. 

Price increases and volume growth drove the increase in revenue in 2007 versus 2006. Strong demand for potash exports through Pacific Northwest ports and a robust planting season for corn to supply ethanol producers increased demand for fertilizer shipments in 2007. New business acquired in June 2007 contributed to more shipments of plastics. Soda ash volume increased as export demand grew in the Gulf area and Mexico. Lower production at Canadian locations during the year boosted shipments of liquid and dry chemicals from U.S. sources.    

2008 Chemicals Revenue 

Energy – Price increases, fuel surcharges, and higher volume produced revenue growth in 2008 versus 2007. Shipments from the SPRB were up 5% compared to 2007 despite mine flooding and network interruptions caused by extensive flooding in the Midwest in June of 2008. Conversely, shipments from the Colorado and Utah mines were down 4% in 2008 versus 2007, due to mine production problems. 

Price increases during 2007 improved both revenue and ARC over 2006 levels. Volume was flat, however, as severe storms in the first quarter and heavy rains in May flooded coal pits in the SPRB, which closed several rail lines and reduced volume levels. Shipments from the Colorado and Utah mines were down 1% due to lower mine production, predominately in the fourth quarter of 2007.    

2008 Energy Revenue 

30  

Table of Contents 

Industrial Products – Price improvements and fuel surcharges contributed to higher freight revenue in 2008 compared to 2007. Lower volume partially offset these increases. Continued softening of the housing market and weak market conditions resulted in lower lumber shipments. In addition, cement and stone shipments declined due to a weak overall residential and commercial construction market. Business interruptions resulting from the hurricanes also reduced various construction-related shipments, primarily stone. Conversely, we shipped more steel in 2008 than in 2007 as the weak dollar increased the cost of steel imports during most of the year, creating a strong demand for domestic steel. 

Volume declines more than offset price increases, driving industrial products revenue lower in 2007 compared to 2006. Continued softening of the housing construction market, surplus inventories, and general market uncertainty resulted in lower lumber shipments. Delays of rail expansion projects, customer production problems, unfavorable weather, and the ongoing impact of a weak residential construction market reduced stone shipments during the year.    

2008 Industrial Products Revenue 

  Intermodal – Price increases and fuel surcharges generated higher revenue in 2008, partially offset by lower volume levels. International traffic declined 11% in 2008, reflecting continued softening of imports from China and the loss of a customer contract. Notably, the peak intermodal shipping season, which usually starts in the third quarter, was particularly weak in 2008. Additionally, continued weakness in domestic housing and automotive sectors translated into weak demand in large sectors of the international intermodal market, which also contributed to lower volumes. Domestic traffic declined 3% in 2008 due to the loss of a customer contract and lower volumes from less-than-truckload shippers. Additionally, the flood-related embargo on traffic in the Midwest during the second quarter hindered intermodal volume levels in 2008.    

2008 Intermodal Revenue 

Price increases improved intermodal revenue in 2007 compared to 2006. Volume was flat versus 2006 as increased domestic traffic due to new service offerings and increased business under some of our older, long-term contracts were offset by a decrease of premium shipments. International traffic was flat in 2007 compared to 2006 due to general softening of imports from Asia.  

Mexico Business – The results for each commodity group include shipments to and from Mexico. Revenue from Mexico business increased 13% to $1.6 billion in 2008 compared to 2007. Price improvements and fuel surcharges contributed to these increases, partially offset by a 4% decline in volume in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Revenue from Mexico business increased 5% to $1.44 billion in 2007 compared to 2006. Price increases and more shipments of automotive parts and intermodal containers drove revenue growth in 2007.   

31  

Table of Contents 

 Volume declines in cement, some agricultural products, and newsprint shipments partially offset the increases.  

Operating Expenses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating expenses increased $987 million in 2008. Our fuel price per gallon rose 39% during the year, increasing operating expenses by $1.1 billion compared to 2007. Wage, benefit, and materials inflation, higher depreciation, and costs associated with the January Cascade mudslide and Hurricanes Gustav and Ike also increased expenses during the year. Cost savings from productivity improvements, better resource utilization, and lower volume helped offset these increases. 

Operating expenses increased $214 million in 2007 versus 2006. Higher fuel prices, which rose 9% during the period, increased operating expenses by $242 million. Wage, benefit and materials inflation and higher depreciation expense also increased expenses during the year. Productivity improvements, better resource utilization, and a lower fuel consumption rate helped offset these increases.    

2008 Operating Expenses 

Compensation and Benefits – Compensation and benefits include wages, payroll taxes, health and welfare costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs. Productivity initiatives in all areas, combined with lower volume, led to a 4% decline in our workforce for 2008, saving $227 million compared to 2007. Conversely, general wage and benefit inflation and higher pension and postretirement benefits increased expenses in 2008, partially offsetting these reductions.  

Operational improvements and lower volume levels in 2007 led to a 1% decline in our workforce, saving $79 million in 2007 compared to 2006. A smaller workforce and less need for new train personnel reduced training costs during the year, which contributed to the improvement. General wage and benefit inflation mostly offset the reductions, reflecting higher salaries and wages and the impact of higher healthcare and other benefit costs.  

Fuel – Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and heavy equipment. Diesel fuel prices, which averaged $3.15 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2008 compared to $2.27 per gallon in 2007, increased expenses by $1.1 billion. A 4% improvement in our fuel consumption rate resulted in $136 million of cost savings due to the use of newer, more fuel   

32  

Table of Contents 

 efficient locomotives; our fuel conservation programs; improved network operations; and a shift in commodity mix, primarily due to growth in bulk shipments. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, decreased 3% in the year, lowering expenses by $101 million compared to 2007.  

Higher diesel fuel prices, which averaged $2.27 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2007 compared to $2.09 per gallon in 2006, increased expenses by $244 million. A 2% improvement of our fuel consumption rate resulting from the use of newer, more fuel-efficient locomotives and our fuel conservation programs reduced fuel expense by $44 million, and a 2% decrease of gross ton miles reduced fuel expense by an additional $54 million.  

Purchased Services and Materials – Purchased services and materials expense includes the costs of services purchased from outside contractors; materials used to maintain the Railroad’s lines, structures, and equipment; costs of operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and lodging for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers; leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and supplies. In 2008, higher contract costs (including restoration costs related to the January Cascade mudslide, June Midwest flooding, and September hurricanes) increased expenses $40 million compared to 2007. Higher material costs for freight car wheel sets during the year and an increase in the number of wheel sets required to repair flood-damaged freight cars also contributed to higher materials expense in 2008. Conversely, rail scrap proceeds associated with our rail replacement program partially offset these increases for the year.  

Higher consulting fees and higher contract expenses (including equipment maintenance) increased costs by $58 million in 2007 compared to 2006. Crew transportation and lodging costs increased $17 million in 2007 due to higher gas prices and rate inflation. Increased use of higher cost components to repair and maintain our fleet of locomotives (including a growing number of units not covered by warranties) added $32 million to materials expense during 2007. Conversely, we used fewer parts for freight car repairs due to program maintenance scheduling, which lowered costs by $11 million in 2007 compared to 2006. We also incurred lower drayage expense in 2007 compared to 2006.  

Depreciation – The majority of depreciation relates to track structure, including rail, ties, and other track material. A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting higher capital spending in recent years, increased depreciation expense in 2008 versus 2007, and in 2007 versus 2006.  

Equipment and Other Rents – Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad pays for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; other specialty equipment leases; and office and other rentals. Fewer shipments of finished vehicles, industrial products and intermodal containers reduced our short term freight car rental expense by $62 million in 2008 compared to 2007. Lower lease expense for freight cars, intermodal containers, and locomotives also decreased costs. Conversely, lease expense for fleet vehicles increased costs in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Fewer shipments of industrial products, combined with improved car-cycle times, which reflect operational improvement and better asset utilization, reduced our short-term freight car rental expense by $46 million in 2007 compared to 2006. Lower lease expenses for freight cars, intermodal containers, and fleet vehicles and equipment decreased costs by $20 million in 2007. Conversely, higher locomotive lease expense resulted in a $33 million increase in costs during the year.  

Other – Other costs include personal injury costs, freight and property damage, insurance, environmental expense, state and local taxes, utilities, telephone and cellular expenses, employee travel expense, and computer software and other general expenses. Other costs were higher in 2008 compared to 2007 due to an increase in bad debts, state and local taxes, utility costs, and other miscellaneous expenses totaling $110 million. Conversely, casualty expenses including costs for personal injuries, asbestos-related claims, freight and property damage, insurance, and environmental costs were $3 million lower in 2008   

33  

Table of Contents 

 compared to 2007. We reduced personal injury expense by $80 million in 2007 as a result of fewer than expected claims and lower than expected average settlement costs. In 2008, we reduced personal injury expense and asbestos-related costs $82 million based on the results of updated personal injury actuarial studies and a reassessment of our potential liability for resolution of current and future asbestos claims. In addition, environmental and toxic tort expenses were $7 million lower in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Other costs were lower in 2007 compared to 2006 driven primarily by a reduction in personal injury expense. Actuarial studies completed during 2007 resulted in a reduction in personal injury expense of $80 million, which was partially offset by an adverse development with respect to one claim. Settlement of insurance claims in 2007 related to Hurricane Rita, and higher equity income also drove expenses lower in 2007 versus 2006. Conversely, the year-over-year comparison was affected by the settlement of insurance claims totaling $23 million in 2006 related to the January 2005 West Coast storm and a $9 million gain in 2006 from the sale of two Company-owned airplanes.  

Non-Operating Items  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other Income – Other income decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 due to lower gains from real estate sales and decreased returns on cash investments reflecting lower interest rates. Higher rental and licensing income and lower interest expense on our sale of receivables program partially offset the decreases.  

Lower net gains from non-operating asset sales (primarily real estate) drove the reduction in other income in 2007. Recognition of rental income in 2006 from the settlement of a rent dispute also contributed to the year-over-year decrease in other income. Cash investment returns increased $21 million due to larger cash balances and higher interest rates.  

Interest Expense – Interest expense increased in 2008 versus 2007 due to a higher weighted-average debt level of $8.3 billion, compared to $7.3 billion in 2007. A lower effective interest rate of 6.1% in 2008, compared to 6.6% in 2007, partially offset the effects of the higher weighted-average debt level.  

An increase in the weighted-average debt levels to $7.3 billion from $7.1 billion in 2006 generated higher interest expense in 2007. A lower effective interest rate of 6.6% in 2007, compared to 6.7% in 2006, partially offset the effects of the higher debt level.  

Income Taxes – Income taxes were higher in 2008 compared to 2007, driven by higher pre-tax income. Our effective tax rates were 36.1% and 38.4% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The lower effective tax rate in 2008 resulted from several reductions in tax expense related to federal audits and state tax law changes. In addition, the effective tax rate in 2007 was increased by Illinois legislation that increased deferred tax expense in the third quarter of 2007.  

Income taxes were $235 million higher in 2007 compared to 2006, due primarily to higher pre-tax income and the effect of new tax legislation in the State of Illinois that changed how we determine the amount of our income subject to Illinois tax. The Illinois legislation increased our deferred tax expense by $27 million in 2007. Our effective tax rates were 38.4% and 36.4% in 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

34  

Table of Contents 

OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS  

We report key Railroad performance measures weekly to the Association of American Railroads (AAR), including carloads, average daily inventory of rail cars on our system, average train speed, and average terminal dwell time. We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investors/reports/index.shtml.  

Operating/Performance Statistics   

Included in the table below are Railroad performance measures reported to the AAR:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Average Train Speed – Average train speed is calculated by dividing train miles by hours operated on our main lines between terminals. Ongoing network management initiatives, productivity improvements, and lower volume levels contributed to 8% and 2% improvements in average train speed in 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Average Terminal Dwell Time – Average terminal dwell time is the average time that a rail car spends at our terminals. Lower average terminal dwell time improves asset utilization and service. Average terminal dwell time improved 1% and 8% in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Lower volumes combined with initiatives to more timely deliver rail cars to our interchange partners and customers improved dwell time in both periods.  

Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles – Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of loaded and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles. Gross ton-miles decreased 3%, while revenue ton-miles were flat in 2008 compared to 2007 with commodity mix changes (notably autos and coal) explaining the variance in year over year growth between the two metrics. In 2007, revenue ton-miles declined 1% in relation to the 1% reduction in carloadings compared to 2006. Gross ton-miles decreased 2% in 2007 driven by a mix shift in freight shipments.  

Operating Ratio – Operating ratio is defined as our operating expenses as a percentage of operating revenue. Our operating ratios improved 2.0 points to 77.3% in 2008 and 2.2 points to 79.3% in 2007. Price increases, fuel cost recoveries, network management initiatives, and improved productivity more than offset the impact of higher fuel prices.  

Employees – Productivity initiatives and lower volumes reduced employee levels throughout the Company in 2008 versus 2007. Fewer train and engine personnel due to improved network productivity and 5% lower volume drove the change while productivity initiatives within the support organizations also contributed to a lower full-time equivalent force level. Lower employee levels in 2007 versus 2006   

35  

Table of Contents 

 resulted from fewer train and engine personnel due to improved network productivity and 1% lower volume levels, partially offset by more employees maintaining our larger locomotive fleet.  

Customer Satisfaction Index – The customer satisfaction survey asks customers to rate how satisfied they are with our performance over the last 12 months on a variety of attributes. A higher score indicates higher customer satisfaction. The improvement in survey results in 2008 and 2007 generally reflects customer recognition of our improving service.  

Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of the Corporation’s long-term capital investments, and we currently use ROIC as a performance criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity. The tables above provide a reconciliation from return on average common shareholders’ equity to ROIC. Our 2008 ROIC improved 1.5 points compared to 2007 primarily as a result of higher earnings, partially offset by a $1.1 billion increase in average debt.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Debt to Capital / Adjusted Debt to Capital  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Adjusted debt to capital is a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the total amount of leverage in our capital structure, including off-balance sheet lease obligations, which we generally incur in connection with financing the acquisition of locomotives and freight cars and certain facilities. We monitor the ratio of adjusted debt to capital as we manage our capital structure to balance cost-effective and efficient access to the capital markets with the Corporation’s overall cost of capital. Adjusted debt to capital should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, debt to capital. The tables above provide a reconciliation from debt to capital to adjusted debt to capital. Our December 31, 2008 debt to capital ratios increased as a result of a $1.2 billion net increase in debt from December 31, 2007, and purchases of our common stock under our share repurchase program, partially offset by an increase in retained earnings due to higher earnings in 2008. Equity at December 31, 2008, was reduced by $704 million for other comprehensive losses. Equity at December 31, 2007, was reduced by $74 million for other comprehensive losses. Other comprehensive losses in both years were related primarily to pensions. See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for more information.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

As of December 31, 2008, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, the sale of certain receivables, and our revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets. We had $1.9 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, with no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2008. We did not make any borrowings under this facility during the year. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the sale of receivables program was $584 million as of December 31, 2008. The sale of receivables program is subject to certain requirements, including maintenance of an investment grade bond rating. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to utilize commercial paper as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is also dependent on our financial stability. Although both short and long-   

37  

Table of Contents 

 term debt, including commercial paper, bank provided credit, and publicly issued bonds, are more expensive than in recent years, we currently have access to liquidity through commercial paper and our credit facility. We also expect that we will continue to have access to liquidity by issuing bonds to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of the credit markets and recent debt transactions, including our issuance of long-term debt during the fourth quarter.  

At December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2007, we had a working capital deficit of approximately $100 million and $400 million, respectively. A working capital deficit is common in our industry and does not indicate a lack of liquidity. We maintain adequate resources and, when necessary, have access to capital to meet any daily and short-term cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities  

Higher net income in 2008 and changes in working capital combined to increase cash provided by operating activities. In addition, accelerated tax deductions enacted in 2008 on certain new operating assets resulted in lower income tax payments in 2008. Voluntary pension contributions in 2008 totaling $200 million and other pension contributions of $8 million partially offset the year-over-year increase. Higher net income in 2007 was the primary driver of increased cash provided by operating activities. A favorable comparison due to voluntary pension contributions in 2006 totaling $150 million also contributed to the year-over-year increase. These increases were partially offset by cash payments representing prior period wage increases in accordance with recent union contract ratifications and higher income tax payments.  

Investing Activities  

Increased capital investments and lower proceeds from asset sales drove the increase in cash used in investing activities in 2008 compared to 2007. Higher capital investments and work in process balances drove the increase in cash used in investing in 2007 versus 2006.  

The table below details cash capital investments for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Capital Plan – In 2009, we expect our total capital investments to be approximately $2.8 billion (which may be revised if business conditions or new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient   

38  

Table of Contents 

 returns on these investments). We expect approximately 80% of our 2009 capital investments will replace and renew existing capital assets. Major investment categories include replacement and improvement of track infrastructure; increasing network and terminal capacity; locomotive and freight car fleet, including the acquisition of 125 high-horsepower locomotives; and technology improvements, including the testing of positive train control, and other capital projects. We expect to fund our 2009 cash capital investments through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, issuance of long-term debt, and cash on hand at December 31, 2008. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan, which we expect will enhance the long-term value of the Corporation for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) replace and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network efficiency by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.  

Financing Activities  

Cash used in financing activities increased in 2008 versus 2007 due to higher debt repayments of $416 million, an increase of $234 million for the repurchase of common shares (see further discussion of common shares in Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities - Purchases of Equity Securities Part II, Item 5) and an increase of dividends paid, reflecting a higher quarterly dividend. Higher debt issuances of $676 million partially offset these increases. The increase in cash used in financing activities in 2007 resulted primarily from the use of $1.4 billion to repurchase common shares, payment of higher dividends, and lower net proceeds from equity compensation plans ($71 million in 2007 compared to $160 million in 2006). These increases were mostly offset by debt issuances of $1.6 billion in 2007 compared to no issuances in 2006.  

Credit Facilities – On December 31, 2008, we had $1.9 billion of credit available under our revolving credit facility (the facility). The facility is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on the facility during 2008. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon our senior unsecured debt ratings. The facility requires Union Pacific Corporation to maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a borrowing. At December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2007 (and at all times during these periods), we were in compliance with this covenant.  

The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes, among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2008, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $30.9 billion of debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $9.9 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors beyond our reasonable control (including the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report) could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $75 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision. The term of the facility will expire in April 2012, and we currently intend to replace the facility with a substantially similar credit agreement on or before the expiration date, which is consistent with our past practices with respect to our credit facilities.  

At December 31, 2008, we had $100 million of commercial paper outstanding. Our commercial paper balance is supported by our revolving credit facility but does not reduce the amount of borrowings available under the facility. During 2008, we issued $600 million of commercial paper, including $300   

39  

Table of Contents 

 million issued in September and October as the credit and financial markets deteriorated, and repaid $500 million.  

At December 31, 2008, we reclassified as long-term debt approximately $400 million of debt due within one year that we intend to refinance. This reclassification reflected our ability and intent to refinance any short-term borrowings and certain current maturities of long-term debt on a long-term basis. At December 31, 2007, we reclassified as long-term debt approximately $550 million of debt due within one year that we intended to refinance at that time.  

Operating Lease Activities  

During 2008, the Railroad, as lessee, entered into long-term operating lease arrangements covering 82 locomotives, 300 rail cars, and 2,000 intermodal containers with a total equipment cost of approximately $219 million. In total, these new lease arrangements will provide for minimum rental payments of approximately $309 million, with a present value of approximately $178 million.  

The lessors financed the purchase of the locomotives, rail cars, and intermodal containers, in part by issuing equipment notes that are non-recourse to the Railroad and are secured by assignments of the underlying leases and security interests in the equipment. The Corporation and the Railroad do not guaranty payment of the equipment notes. The Railroad’s obligations to make operating lease payments under the leases are recourse obligations and are not recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  

The Railroad has certain renewal and purchase options with respect to the locomotives, rail cars, and intermodal containers. If the Railroad does not exercise these options, the equipment will be returned to the lessors at the end of the lease term.  

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges  

For each of the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 5.9, 5.1, and 4.4, respectively. Higher net income drove the increases in 2008 and 2007. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a consolidated basis. Earnings represent income from continuing operations, less equity earnings net of distributions, plus fixed charges and income taxes. Fixed charges represent interest charges, amortization of debt discount, and the estimated amount representing the interest portion of rental charges. See Exhibit 12 to this report for the calculation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.  

Common Shareholders’ Equity  

Dividends – On July 31, 2008, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.27 per share, payable beginning on October 1, 2008, to shareholders of record on August 29, 2008. We funded the increase in the quarterly dividend through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, and cash on hand during the fourth quarter.  

Dividend Restrictions – Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $10.5 billion and $11.5 billion at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Stock Split – On May 28, 2008, we completed a two-for-one stock split, effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The stock split entitled all shareholders of record at the close of business on May 12, 2008, to receive one additional share of our common stock, par value $2.50 per share, for each share of common stock held on that date.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Share Repurchase Program – On January 30, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 40 million shares of Union Pacific Corporation common stock through the end of 2009. On May 1, 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional 40 million common shares by March 31, 2011. Management’s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all repurchases. We expect to fund our common stock repurchases through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand at December 31, 2008.  

During 2008, we repurchased approximately 22 million shares under this program at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. In 2007, we repurchased approximately 25 million shares at an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion. These shares were recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.  

Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings – Under our current shelf registration statement, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings. In July 2008, our Board of Directors authorized the issuance of an additional $3 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration. At December 31, 2008, we had authority to issue up to $3 billion of debt securities.  

During 2008, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The net proceeds from these offerings are for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions.  

We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time.  

On April 17, 2008, we borrowed $100 million under a 5-year-term loan facility (the loan). The loan has a floating rate based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, and is prepayable in whole or in part without a premium prior to maturity. The agreement documenting the loan has provisions similar to our revolving credit facility, including identical debt-to-net-worth covenant and change-of-control provisions and similar customary default provisions. The agreement does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers, or any other provision that would require us to post collateral.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, Contractual Obligations, and Commercial Commitments  

As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other similarly situated companies face with respect to the current and future condition of the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report), there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that   

41  

Table of Contents 

 would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry.  

The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  Excludes capital lease obligations of $1,270 million, unamortized discount of $(112) million, and market value adjustments of $19 million for debt with qualifying hedges that are recorded as liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Includes an interest component of $4,878 million.  

 [b]  Represents total obligations, including interest component of $628 million.  

 [c]  Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for locomotives, ties, ballast, and rail; and agreements to purchase other goods and services. For amounts where we can not reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.  

 [d]  Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments and payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years. No amounts are included for funded pension as no contributions are currently required.  

 [e]  Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liability, including interest and penalties, in accordance with FIN 48 as of December 31, 2008. Where we can reasonably estimate the years in which these liabilities may be settled, this is shown in the table. For amounts where we can not reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  None of the credit facility was used as of December 31, 2008.  

 [b]  $584 million of the sale of receivables program was utilized at December 31, 2008.  

 [c]  Includes guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations.  

 [d]  None of the letters of credit were drawn upon as of December 31, 2008.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Sale of Receivables – The Railroad transfers most of its accounts receivable to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a bankruptcy-remote subsidiary, as part of a sale of receivables facility. UPRI sells, without recourse on a 364-day revolving basis, an undivided interest in such accounts receivable to investors. The total capacity to sell undivided interests to investors under the facility was $700 million and $600 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the facility was $584 million and $600 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. UPRI reduced the outstanding undivided interest held by investors due to a decrease in available receivables at December 31, 2008. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors is not included in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The value of the undivided interest held by investors was supported by $1,015 million and $1,071 million of accounts receivable held by UPRI at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the value of the interest retained by UPRI was $431 million and $471 million, respectively. This retained interest is included in accounts receivable in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The interest sold to investors is sold at carrying value, which approximates fair value, and there is no gain or loss recognized from the transaction.  

The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors could fluctuate based upon the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by changing business volumes and credit risks, including default and dilution. If default or dilution percentages were to increase one percentage point, the amount of eligible receivables would decrease by $6 million. Should our credit rating fall below investment grade, the value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors would be reduced, and, in certain cases, the investors would have the right to discontinue the facility.  

The Railroad services the sold receivables; however, the Railroad does not recognize any servicing asset or liability as the servicing fees adequately compensate us for these responsibilities. The Railroad collected approximately $17.8 billion and $16.1 billion during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. UPRI used certain of these proceeds to purchase new receivables under the facility.  

The costs of the sale of receivables program are included in other income and were $23 million, $35 million, and $33 million for 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. The costs include interest, program fees paid to banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees for unused commitment availability.  

The investors have no recourse to the Railroad’s other assets except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI. In October 2008, we extended the sale of receivables program to August 2009 without any significant changes in terms, except to increase the capacity to sell undivided interests to $660 million. The capacity was increased to $700 million in December 2008. At January 16, 2009 the amount utilized under the sale of receivables program was $560 million.  

Guarantees – At December 31, 2008, we were contingently liable for $449 million in guarantees. We have recorded a liability of $4 million and $5 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our headquarters building, equipment financings, and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.  

43  

Table of Contents 

OTHER MATTERS  

Inflation – The cumulative effect of long periods of inflation significantly increases asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts.  

Derivative Financial Instruments – We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable price movements.  

Market and Credit Risk – We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.  

Determination of Fair Value – We determine the fair values of our derivative financial instrument positions based upon current fair values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows.  

Sensitivity Analyses – The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results.  

At December 31, 2008, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 5% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2009 than our December 31, 2008 variable rate, which was approximately 4%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $4 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2008.  

Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2008, and amounts to an increase of approximately $568 million to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2008. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates.  

Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges – We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt’s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method pursuant to FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges – We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At both December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had reductions of $4 million, recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss that is being amortized on a straight-line basis through September 30, 2014. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.  

Accounting Pronouncements – In March 2008, FASB issued Statement No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (FAS 161). FAS 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of FAS 133 to clarify how and why companies use derivative instruments. In addition, FAS 161 requires more disclosures regarding how companies account for derivative instruments and the impact derivatives have on a company’s financial statements. This statement is effective for us beginning in 2009 and will only impact our disclosures. It will have no impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  

In May 2008, the FASB issued Statement No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (FAS 162). FAS 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. FAS 162 is effective 60 days following the SEC’s approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, “The Meaning of ‘Present Fairly in Conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles’”. FAS 162 is not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements.  

In June 2008, the FASB released FSP EITF 03-6-1 on Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 03-6, Participating Securities and the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128 (EITF 03-6). The staff position concludes that unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents are participating securities as defined in EITF 03-6; and therefore, should be included in computing earnings per share using the two-class method. As discussed in note 3, we pay nonforfeitable dividends on our unvested retention awards and performance retention awards. This staff position will be effective for us beginning in 2009. We expect that this staff position will result in additional disclosure only and not affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132(R)-1, Employers’ Disclosure about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets, which amends Statement 132(R) to require more detailed disclosures about employers’ pension plan assets. New disclosures will include more information on investment strategies, major categories of plan assets, concentrations of risk within plan assets and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets. This new standard requires new disclosures only, and will have no impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These new disclosures will be required for us beginning in our 2009 Form 10-K.  

Asserted and Unasserted Claims – Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our   

45  

Table of Contents 

 consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities previously recorded for these matters.  

Indemnities – Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.  

Climate Change – Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in note 1 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.  

Asbestos – We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. We engage a third party with extensive experience in estimating resolution costs for asbestos-related claims to assist us in assessing our potential liability. This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:  

 •    The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages.  

 •    The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.  

 •    The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.  

 •    The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Approximately 17% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 83% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2008. These claims are expected to be paid out over the next 30 years. In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2008, we also reassessed estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2008 and 2007. We will continue to review actual experience and adjust our estimate as warranted. Our asbestos-related claims activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We believe that our estimates of liability for asbestos-related claims and insurance recoveries are reasonable and probable. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.  

Environmental – We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We identified 339 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 33 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 18 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Our environmental liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we and our consultants perform environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and we can reasonably estimate such costs. We do not discount our environmental liabilities when the timing of the anticipated cash payments is not fixed or readily determinable.  

The liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation as well as changes to the remediation plan for each site. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.  

Personal Injury – The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use third-party actuaries to assist us in measuring the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Our personal injury liability is discounted to present value using applicable U.S. Treasury rates. Approximately 88% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims, and approximately 12% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2008. Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in litigation. Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Property and Depreciation – Our rail operations are highly capital intensive. Each year we develop a capital program for the acquisition or construction of fixed assets. Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year that were not part of the original program are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria, which are approved by the STB. Properties are carried at cost, and we follow the group method of depreciation. Our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. Under group depreciation, all items with similar physical characteristics, use, and expected life are grouped together in a single asset class, and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The cost (net of salvage) of depreciable rail property retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. A gain or loss is recognized in other income for all other property upon disposition because the gain or loss is not part of rail operations.  

We compute depreciation principally on the straight-line method based on estimated service lives of depreciable property. We use a unit of production convention to depreciate rail in high-density traffic corridors. We calculate service lives using Company-specific retirement data. We perform and submit depreciation rate studies to the STB at least every three years for equipment and every six years for road property (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast). These rate studies are reviewed and approved by the STB. These studies are used to develop our approved composite depreciation rates by asset class. During 2008, we completed depreciation rate studies for both track and road property, which will be used to calculate depreciation expense in 2009 and beyond.  

When we purchase an asset, we capitalize all costs necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use. However, many of our assets are self-constructed. A large portion of our capital expenditures is for track structure expansion (capacity projects) and replacement (program projects), which is typically performed by our employees. Approximately 13% of our full-time equivalent employees are dedicated to the construction of capital assets. Costs that are directly attributable or overhead costs that relate directly to   

49  

Table of Contents 

 capital projects are capitalized. Direct costs that are capitalized as part of self-constructed assets include material, labor, and work equipment. Indirect costs are capitalized if they clearly relate to the construction of the asset. These costs are allocated using appropriate statistical bases. The capitalization of indirect costs is consistent with FASB Statement No. 67, Accounting for Costs and Initial Rental Operations of Real Estate Projects.  

General and administrative expenditures are expensed as incurred. Normal repairs and maintenance are also expensed as incurred, while costs incurred that extend the useful life of an asset, improve the safety of our operations or improve operating efficiency are capitalized.  

Assets held under capital leases are recorded at the lower of the net present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset at the inception of the lease. Amortization expense is computed using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or the period of the related lease.  

Significant capital spending in recent years increased the total value of our depreciable assets. Cash capital spending totaled $2.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008, while depreciation expense totaled $1.4 billion. We use various methods to estimate useful lives for each group of depreciable property. Variances to these estimates could have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $48 million. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense would increase by approximately $52 million.  

Income Taxes – As required under FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, we account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on provisions of tax law as currently enacted; the effects of future changes in tax laws are not anticipated. Future tax law changes, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For example, a 1% increase in the federal income tax rate would increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $260 million.  

When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to offset future tax benefits that may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management’s judgments regarding the best available evidence about future events.  

When we have claimed tax benefits that may be challenged by a tax authority, these uncertain tax positions are accounted for under FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). We adopted FIN 48 beginning January 1, 2007. Prior to 2007, income tax contingencies were accounted for under FASB Statement No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies.  

Under FIN 48, we recognize tax benefits only for tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for “unrecognized tax benefits” is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.  

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits – We use third-party actuaries to assist us in properly measuring the liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and defined contribution medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the   

50  

Table of Contents 

 liabilities and expenses we must make several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rate and healthcare cost trend rate.  

We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors:  

 •    Discount rate is based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency) for which the timing and amount of cash flows matches our plans’ expected benefit payments.  

 •    Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market conditions.  

 •    Healthcare cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.  

The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure pension and OPEB expense for 2008 and the estimated impact on 2008 pension and OPEB expense relative to a change in those assumptions:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

CAUTIONARY INFORMATION  

Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements and information include, without limitation, statements in the Chairman’s letter preceding Part I regarding long-term demand, capital investments, the economic outlook, and our financial position, statements regarding dividends in Item 5 and statements and information set forth under the captions “2009 Outlook” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this Item 7, and any other statements or information in this report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to operational or service improvements; expectations regarding the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations, service, infrastructure improvements, and transportation plan modifications (including statements set forth in Item   

51  

Table of Contents 

 2 regarding expectations related to our capital expenditures); expectations as to cost savings, revenue growth, and earnings; the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will be achieved; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions; proposed new products and services; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts.  

Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking information is subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements.  

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk