Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

PENDING BUSINESS COMBINATION

On July 27, 2013, the Company and Publicis Groupe S.A. (“Publicis”) entered into a Business Combination Agreement (the “Business Combination Agreement”) pursuant to which the Company and Publicis agreed, subject to the terms and conditions of the Business Combination Agreement, to combine their respective businesses (the “Business Combination”). In the Business Combination, Publicis will merge (the “Publicis Merger”) with and into Publicis Omnicom Group N.V., a newly-formed Dutch holding company (“Publicis Omnicom Group” or “HoldCo”), with Publicis Omnicom Group being the surviving entity in the Publicis Merger, and immediately after consummation of the Publicis Merger, a corporation wholly-owned by Publicis Omnicom Group will merge (the “Omnicom Merger” and together with the Publicis Merger, the “Mergers”) with and into the Company, with the Company being the surviving corporation in the Omnicom Merger.

In the Publicis Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Publicis will be exchanged for 1.000000 ordinary share of Publicis Omnicom Group. In addition, prior to completion of the Publicis Merger, Publicis intends to declare and pay a special dividend, in cash, in an amount equal to €1.00 per Publicis share (the “Publicis Transaction Dividend”). In the Omnicom Merger, each share of common stock of the Company will be converted into the right to receive 0.813008 of a Publicis Omnicom Group ordinary share, together with cash in lieu of fractional shares, subject to adjustment to account for certain changes in outstanding shares and certain excluded asset values as set forth in the Business Combination Agreement. Similarly, prior to completion of the Omnicom Merger, the Company intends to declare and pay a special cash dividend of $2.00 per share of the Company’s outstanding common stock (the “Omnicom Transaction Dividend” and, together with the Publicis Transaction Dividend, the “Transaction Dividends”), subject to adjustment to account for certain changes in outstanding shares of the parties and certain excluded asset values, in each case as set forth in the Business Combination Agreement, and, if necessary, to equalize the cumulative amount of regular dividends paid by the Company after July 27, 2013 with the cumulative amount of regular Publicis dividends paid after July 27, 2013. However, dividends of up to $0.80 per share in the aggregate paid to holders of the Company’s common stock in respect of record dates after July 27, 2013 and before the Mergers are not included in this equalization. The payment of the Transaction Dividends is also subject to applicable law.

Completion of the transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement (which include the Mergers, the Publicis Transaction Dividend, and the Omnicom Transaction Dividend, collectively, the “Transactions”) will require resolution of all open issues, complexities and challenges and will be subject to the satisfaction or waiver, if legally permitted, of certain conditions including (a) approval and adoption of the Business Combination Agreement and the Omnicom Merger by the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, approval of the Cross-Border Merger Terms (as described in the Business Combination Agreement), and the Publicis Merger by the holders of two-thirds of the voting rights attached to the Publicis shares present at a meeting of the Publicis shareholders, and the approval of the Publicis Transaction Dividend by the holders of a majority of the voting rights attached to the Publicis shares present at a meeting of the Publicis shareholders; (b) approval by requisite governmental regulators and authorities, including approvals under applicable competition laws; (c) the listing of the Publicis Omnicom Group ordinary shares on applicable stock exchanges; (d) the absence of any law or order prohibiting the completion of the Transactions; and (e) the absence of a material adverse effect on either the Company or Publicis. Therefore, completion of the Transactions is unlikely to occur before the third quarter of 2014.

The completion of the Transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement will have a material effect on our future results of operations and financial position. 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

We are a strategic holding company. We provide professional services to clients through multiple agencies around the world. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our agencies provide these services in the following disciplines: advertising, customer relationship management, or CRM, public relations and specialty communications. Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is that our clients’ specific requirements should be the central focus in how we deliver our services and allocate our resources. This client-centric business model results in multiple agencies collaborating in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal organizational structures to deliver consistent brand messages for a specific client and execute against each of our clients’ specific marketing requirements. We continually seek to grow our business with our existing clients by maintaining our client-centric approach, as well as expanding our existing business relationships into new markets and with new clients. In addition, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary companies with strong entrepreneurial management teams that typically currently serve or have the ability to serve our existing client base.

10

As a leading global advertising, marketing and corporate communications company, we operate in all major markets around the world and have a large and diverse client base. In 2013, our largest client accounted for 2.7% of revenue and no other client accounted for more than 2.5% of revenue. Our top 100 clients accounted for approximately 51% of revenue in 2013. Our business is spread across a significant number of industry sectors with no one industry comprising more than 14% of revenue in 2013. Although our revenue is generally balanced between the United States and international markets and we have a large and diverse client base, we are not immune to general economic downturns.

As described in more detail below, in 2013 revenue increased 2.6% compared to 2012. Increased revenue in the United States and continued growth in both high-growth markets and emerging markets of Asia and Latin America was partially offset by the on-going economic weakness in the Euro Zone.

Global economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and financial performance. In particular, current global economic conditions pose a risk that our clients may reduce future spending on advertising and marketing services which could reduce the demand for our services. In 2013 the United States experienced modest economic growth and the major economies of Asia and Latin America continued to expand. While economic conditions in the Euro Zone began to stabilize in the second half of 2013, the continuing fiscal issues faced by many countries in the European Union has caused economic difficulty in certain of our Euro Zone markets. We will continue to closely monitor economic conditions, client revenue levels and other factors and, in response to reductions in our client revenue, if necessary, we will take actions available to us to align our cost structure and manage working capital. There can be no assurance whether, or to what extent, our efforts to mitigate any impact of future economic conditions, reductions in our client revenue, changes in client creditworthiness and other developments will be effective.

Certain business trends have had a positive impact on our business and industry. These trends include our clients increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets to pan-regional and global markets and integrating traditional and non-traditional marketing channels, as well as utilizing new communications technologies and emerging digital platforms. Additionally, in an effort to gain greater efficiency and effectiveness from their total marketing budgets, clients continue to require greater coordination of marketing activities. We believe these trends have benefited our business in the past and over the medium and long term will continue to provide a competitive advantage to us.

In the near term, barring unforeseen events and excluding the impact from changes in foreign exchange rates and the effect of the pending merger with Publicis, as a result of continued improvement in operating performance by many of our agencies and new business activities, we expect our 2014 revenue to increase modestly in excess of the weighted average nominal GDP growth in our major markets. We expect to continue to identify acquisition opportunities intended to build upon the core capabilities of our strategic business platforms, expand our operations in the emerging markets and enhance our capabilities to leverage new technologies that are being used by marketers today.

Given our size and breadth, we manage our business by monitoring several financial indicators. The key indicators that we review focus on revenue and operating expenses. We analyze revenue growth by reviewing the components and mix of the growth, including growth by major geographic region, growth by major marketing discipline, impact from foreign currency fluctuations, growth from acquisitions and growth from our largest clients. In recent years, our revenue has been divided almost evenly between our domestic and international operations.

In 2013 revenue increased 2.6% compared to 2012. Organic growth increased revenue 3.5%. Acquisitions, net of dispositions reduced revenue 0.3% and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates reduced revenue by 0.6%. Across our geographic markets, revenue increased 2.8% in the United States, 6.2% in the United Kingdom, 1.8% in our other markets, primarily Asia and Latin America, and 0.9% in our Euro markets. The change in revenue in 2013 compared to 2012 in our four fundamental disciplines was: advertising increased 3.6%, CRM increased 1.3%, public relations increased 2.9% and specialty communications increased 2.0%.

We measure operating expenses in two distinct cost categories: salary and service costs and office and general expenses. Salary and service costs consist of employee compensation and related costs and direct service costs. Office and general expenses consist of rent and occupancy costs, technology costs, depreciation and amortization and other overhead expenses. Each of our agencies requires professionals with the skill sets that are common across our disciplines. At the core of the skill sets is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and its selling proposition and the ability to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience. The facility requirements of our agencies are also similar across geographic regions and disciplines, and their technology requirements are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. Because we are a service business, we monitor salary and service costs and office and general costs in relation to revenue.

11

Salary and service costs tend to fluctuate in conjunction with changes in revenue. Salary and service costs increased 3.1% in 2013 compared to 2012, reflecting growth in revenue and an increase in employee compensation, including incentive compensation and severance, as well as increases related to changes in the mix of our business during the year.

Office and general expenses are less directly linked to changes in revenue than salary and service costs. Office and general expenses decreased 0.7% in 2013 compared to 2012, reflecting our continuing efforts to control the cost structures of our agencies.

In the second half of 2013 we incurred $41.4 million of expenses in connection with the pending merger with Publicis, which are primarily comprised of professional fees. The merger expenses are shown as a separate component of operating expenses and we expect to incur additional merger expenses in 2014.

Operating margins decreased to 12.5% in 2013 from 12.7% in 2012 and EBITA margins decreased to 13.2% in 2013 from 13.4% in 2012. Excluding the merger expenses of $41.4 million, operating margins for 2013 increased to 12.8% from 12.7% in 2012 and EBITA margins for 2013 increased to 13.5% from 13.4% in 2012.

Net interest expense increased to $164.4 million in 2013 from $144.6 million in 2012. Interest expense increased $17.5 million to $197.2 million. The increase in interest expense in 2013 is primarily attributable to the issuance of our 3.625% Senior Notes due May 1, 2022, or the 2022 Notes, of which $750 million were issued in April 2012 and $500 million were issued in August 2012. Interest income decreased $2.3 million to $32.8 million in 2013.

Our effective tax rate increased to 34.0% in 2013 from 31.8% in 2012. Excluding the income tax effect of the merger expenses of $6.5 million, which reflects the estimated impact of the non-deductibility of a significant portion of the merger expenses, our effective tax rate for 2013 was 33.6%, which is consistent with our expected effective tax rate for 2013 and reflects the full year effect of the reduction in income tax expense resulting from the implementation of the legal reorganization in the Asia Pacific region, which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012.

Net income - Omnicom Group Inc. decreased $7.2 million, or 0.7%, to $991.1 million in 2013 from $998.3 million in 2012. The year-over-year decrease in net income - Omnicom Group Inc. is due to the factors described above. Diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. increased 2.8% to $3.71 in 2013, compared to $3.61 in 2012 due to the factors described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding. The reduction in our weighted average shares outstanding was the result of repurchases of our common stock, net of stock option exercises and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan and shares issued upon conversion of our Convertible Notes due June 15, 2033, or 2033 Notes, and our Convertible Notes due July 1, 2038, or 2038 Notes. In connection with the pending merger with Publicis, beginning in the third quarter of 2013 we suspended repurchases of our common stock in the open market. Excluding the net effect of the merger expenses, net income - Omnicom Group Inc. for 2013 was $1,026.0 million and diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. was $3.84.

See the Reconciliation of Results of Operations to 2013 Non-GAAP Financial Measures on page 16 for a description of the Non-GAAP Financial Measures discussed above.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The following summary of our critical accounting policies provides a better understanding of our financial statements and the related discussion in this MD&A. We believe that the following policies may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application and represent the critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our financial statements. Readers are encouraged to consider this summary together with our financial statements and the related notes, including Note 3, Significant Accounting Policies, for a more complete understanding of the critical accounting policies discussed below.

Estimates

Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses that are reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We use a fair value approach in testing goodwill for impairment and when evaluating our cost-method investments to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions.

Acquisitions and Goodwill

We have made and expect to continue to make selective acquisitions. In making acquisitions, the valuation of potential acquisitions is based on various factors, including specialized know-how, reputation, competitive position, geographic coverage and service offerings of the target businesses, as well as our experience and judgment.

12

Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method and, accordingly, the assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired business are recorded at their acquisition date fair values. In circumstances where control is obtained and less than 100% of an entity is acquired, we record 100% of the goodwill acquired. Acquisition-related costs, including advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other costs, are expensed as incurred. Certain of our acquisitions are structured with contingent purchase price obligations (earn-outs). Contingent purchase price obligations are recorded as liabilities at the acquisition date fair value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the liabilities are recorded in our results of operations. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in our results of operations from the acquisition date. In 2013, we completed 8 acquisitions of new subsidiaries and made additional investments in businesses in which we had an existing minority ownership interest. Goodwill increased $69.9 million in 2013, which included contingent purchase price payments (earn-outs) for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009 of $14.5 million. Contingent purchase price obligations for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009 are accrued, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, when the contingency is resolved and payment is certain. 

Our acquisition strategy is focused on acquiring the expertise of an assembled workforce in order to continue to build upon the core capabilities of our various strategic business platforms and agency brands through the expansion of their geographic reach and/or their service capabilities to better serve our clients. Additional key factors we consider include the competitive position and specialized know-how of the acquisition targets. Accordingly, as is typical in most service businesses, a substantial portion of the intangible asset value we acquire is the know-how of the people, which is treated as part of goodwill and is not valued separately. For each acquisition, we undertake a detailed review to identify other intangible assets and a valuation is performed for all such identified assets. A significant portion of the identifiable intangible assets acquired is derived from customer relationships, including the related customer contracts, as well as trade names. In valuing these identified intangible assets, we typically use an income approach and consider comparable market participant measurements.

We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually at the end of the second quarter of the year and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We identified our regional reporting units as components of our operating segments, which are our five agency networks. The regional reporting units of each agency network are responsible for the agencies in their region. They report to the segment managers and facilitate the administrative and logistical requirements of our client-centric strategy for delivering services to clients in their regions. We have concluded that for each of our operating segments, their regional reporting units have similar economic characteristics and should be aggregated for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment at the operating segment level. Our conclusion was based on a detailed analysis of the aggregation criteria set forth in FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting, and the guidance set forth in FASB ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. Consistent with our fundamental business strategy, the agencies within our regional reporting units serve similar clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In addition, the agencies within our regional reporting units have similar economic characteristics. The main economic components of each agency are employee compensation and related costs and direct service costs and office and general costs, which include rent and occupancy costs, technology costs that are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software and other overhead expenses. Finally, the expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies and regions as they work together to integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy.

Goodwill Impairment Review - Estimates and Assumptions

We use the following valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our reporting units: (1) the income approach, which utilizes discounted expected future cash flows, (2) comparative market participant multiples for EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) and (3) when available, consideration of recent and similar acquisition transactions.

In applying the income approach, we use estimates to derive the expected discounted cash flows (“DCF”) for each reporting unit that serves as the basis of our valuation. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth and operating margin, EBITDA, tax rates, capital expenditures, weighted average cost of capital and related discount rates and expected long-term cash flow growth rates. All of these estimates and assumptions are affected by conditions specific to our businesses, economic conditions related to the industry we operate in, as well as conditions in the global economy. The assumptions that have the most significant effect on our valuations derived using a DCF methodology are: (1) the expected long-term growth rate of our reporting units' cash flows and (2) the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”).

13

The range of assumptions for the long-term growth rate and WACC used in our evaluations as of June 30, 2013 and 2012 were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Long-term growth rate represents our estimate of the long-term growth rate for our industry and the markets of the global economy we operate in. The average historical revenue growth rate of our reporting units for the past ten years was approximately 6.8% and the Average Nominal GDP growth of the countries comprising our major markets that account for substantially all of our revenue was 4.3% over the same period. We considered this history when determining the long-term growth rates used in our annual impairment test at June 30, 2013. We believe marketing expenditures over the long term have a high correlation to GDP. We also believe, based on our historical performance, that our long-term growth rate will exceed Average Nominal GDP growth in the markets we operate in. For our annual test as of June 30, 2013, we used an estimated long-term growth rate of 4% for our reporting units.

When performing our annual impairment test as of June 30, 2013 and estimating the future cash flows of our reporting units, we considered the current macroeconomic environment, as well as industry and market specific conditions at mid-year 2013. In the first half of 2013, we experienced an increase in our revenue of 2.8%, which excludes growth from acquisitions and the impact from changes in foreign exchange rates. While economic conditions in the Euro Zone began to stabilize in the second half of 2013, the continuing fiscal issues faced by many countries in the European Union has caused economic difficulty in certain of our Euro Zone markets. We considered the effect of these conditions in our annual impairment test. 

The WACC is comprised of: (1) a risk-free rate of return, (2) a business risk index ascribed to us and to companies in our industry comparable to our reporting units based on a market derived variable that measures the volatility of the share price of equity securities relative to the volatility of the overall equity market, (3) an equity risk premium that is based on the rate of return on equity of publicly traded companies with business characteristics comparable to our reporting units and (4) a current after-tax market rate of return on debt of companies with business characteristics similar to our reporting units, each weighted by the relative market value percentages of our equity and debt. 

Our five reporting units vary in size with respect to revenue and the amount of debt allocated to them. These differences drive variations in fair value among our reporting units. In addition, these differences as well as differences in book value, including goodwill, cause variations in the amount by which fair value exceeds book value among the reporting units. The reporting unit goodwill balances and debt vary by reporting unit primarily because our three legacy agency networks were acquired at the formation of Omnicom and were accounted for as a pooling of interests that did not result in any additional debt or goodwill being recorded. The remaining two agency networks were built through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions that were accounted for using the acquisition method and as a result, they have a relatively higher amount of goodwill and debt.

Goodwill Impairment Review - Conclusion

Under U.S. GAAP, we have the option of either assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the carrying value of our reporting units exceeds their respective fair value or proceeding directly to Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. Although not required, we performed Step 1 of the annual impairment test and compared the fair value of each of our reporting units to its respective carrying value, including goodwill. Based on the results of our impairment test, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired at June 30, 2013, because the fair value of each of our reporting units was substantially in excess of their respective net book value. The minimum decline in fair value that one of our reporting units would need to experience in order to fail Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test was approximately 70%. Notwithstanding our belief that the assumptions we used in our impairment testing for our WACC and long-term growth rate are reasonable, we performed a sensitivity analysis for each of our reporting units. The results of this sensitivity analysis on our impairment test as of June 30, 2013 revealed that if WACC increased by 1% and/or long-term growth rate decreased by 1%, the fair value of each of our reporting units would continue to be substantially in excess of their respective net book values and would pass Step 1 of the impairment test.

14

We will continue to perform our impairment test at the end of the second quarter of each year unless events or circumstances trigger the need for an interim impairment test. The estimates used in our goodwill impairment test do not constitute forecasts or projections of future results of operations, but rather are estimates and assumptions based on historical results and assessments of macroeconomic factors affecting our reporting units. We believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, but they are subject to change from period to period. Actual results of operations and other factors will likely differ from the estimates used in our discounted cash flow valuation and it is possible that differences could be material. A change in the estimates we use could result in a decline in the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units from the amounts derived as of our latest valuation and could cause us to fail Step 1 of our goodwill impairment test if the estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. A large decline in estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a non-cash impairment charge and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

Subsequent to our annual impairment test at June 30, 2013, there were no events or circumstances that triggered the need for an interim impairment test. Additional information about acquisitions and goodwill appears in Notes 3, 5 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue in accordance with FASB ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and applicable SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from fees for services based on a rate per hour or equivalent basis. Revenue is realized when the service is performed in accordance with the client arrangement and upon the completion of the earnings process. Prior to recognizing revenue, persuasive evidence of an arrangement must exist, the sales price must be fixed or determinable, delivery, performance and acceptance must be in accordance with the client arrangement and collection must be reasonably assured. These principles are the foundation of our revenue recognition policy and apply to all client arrangements in each of our service disciplines: advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. Certain of our businesses earn a portion of their revenue as commissions based upon performance in accordance with client arrangements. Because the services that we provide across each of our disciplines are similar and delivered to clients in similar ways, all of the key elements in revenue recognition apply to client arrangements in each of our four disciplines.

In the majority of our businesses, we act as an agent and record revenue equal to the net amount retained when the fee or commission is earned. Although we may bear credit risk with respect to these activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that we act as an agent on their behalf. In these cases, costs incurred with third-party suppliers are excluded from our revenue. In certain arrangements, we act as principal and we contract directly with third-party suppliers and media providers and production companies and we are responsible for payment. In these circumstances, revenue is recorded at the gross amount billed since revenue has been earned for the sale of goods or services.

Some of our client arrangements include performance incentive provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to quantitative and qualitative goals. We recognize performance incentives in revenue when the specific quantitative goals are achieved, or when our performance against qualitative goals is determined by our clients. 

Additional information about our revenue recognition policy appears in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

Share-Based Compensation

Share-based compensation is measured at the grant date fair value based on the fair value of the award. We use the Black-Scholes option valuation model to determine the fair value of stock option awards. This valuation model uses several assumptions and estimates such as expected life, rate of risk free interest, volatility and dividend yield. If different assumptions and estimates were used to determine the fair value, our actual results of operations and cash flows would likely differ from the estimates used and it is possible that differences could be material. The fair value of restricted stock awards is determined using the closing price of our common stock on the grant date. Additional information about these assumptions and estimates appears in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

Share-based compensation expense was $86.3 million, $80.8 million and $74.5 million, in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Information about our specific awards and stock plans can be found in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

Additional information regarding new accounting guidance can be found in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements. Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements provides a summary of our significant accounting policies.

15

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - 2013 Compared to 2012 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

EBITA, which we define as earnings before interest, taxes and amortization of intangible assets, and EBITA Margin, which we define as EBITA divided by Revenue, are Non-GAAP financial measures. We use EBITA and EBITA Margin as additional operating performance measures, which exclude the non-cash amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. The table above reconciles EBITA and EBITA Margin to the U.S. GAAP financial measure of Operating Income for the periods presented. We believe that EBITA and EBITA Margin are useful measures to evaluate the performance of our businesses. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.

Reconciliation of Results of Operations to 2013 Non-GAAP Financial Measures (in millions, except per share amounts):

The following table reconciles our reported results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 to the 2013 Non-GAAP financial measures presentation. Due to the size of the proposed merger with Publicis, we are providing Non-GAAP financial measures that exclude expenses, which are primarily comprised of professional fees, incurred in connection with the proposed merger.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

16

We believe that investors should consider the 2013 Non-GAAP financial measures as they are indicative of our expected ongoing performance and reflect how management evaluates our operating results. These Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. These Non-GAAP financial measures reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.

Revenue

In 2013 revenue increased $365.1 million, or 2.6%, to $14,584.5 million from $14,219.4 million in 2012. Organic growth increased revenue $501.1 million. Acquisitions, net of dispositions, reduced revenue $51.7 million and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates reduced revenue $84.3 million.

The components of 2013 revenue change in the United States (“Domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“International”) were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The components and percentages are calculated as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The acquisition component is calculated by aggregating the applicable prior period revenue of the acquired businesses, less revenue of any business included in the prior period revenue that was disposed of subsequent to the period.

•Organic growth is calculated by subtracting both the foreign exchange and acquisition components from total revenue growth.

•The percentage change is calculated by dividing the individual component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component ($14,219.4 million for the Total column).

In 2013, changes in foreign exchange rates reduced revenue by 0.6%, or $84.3 million, compared to 2012. The most significant impacts resulted from the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Brazilian Real, British Pound, Canadian Dollar and South African Rand, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro.

Assuming exchange rates at January 31, 2014 remain unchanged, we expect changes in foreign exchange rates to have a marginally negative impact on 2014 revenue.

Revenue for 2013 and the percentage change in revenue and organic growth from 2012 in our primary geographic markets were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

17

Revenue for 2013 and the percentage change in revenue and organic growth from 2012 in our principal regional markets were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the normal course of business, our agencies both gain and lose business from clients each year due to a variety of factors. The net change in 2013 was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to broaden our relationships with all of our clients. Our largest client represented 2.7% and 2.6% of revenue in 2013 and 2012, respectively, and no other client represented more than 2.5% and 2.6% of revenue in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our ten largest and 100 largest clients represented 19.1% and 51.3% of revenue in 2013, respectively and 19.0% and 51.7% of revenue in 2012, respectively.

Driven by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient marketing activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. These services include advertising, brand consultancy, corporate social responsibility consulting, crisis communications, custom publishing, data analytics, database management, direct marketing, entertainment marketing, environmental design, experiential marketing, field marketing, financial/corporate business-to-business advertising, interactive marketing, marketing research, media planning and buying, mobile marketing, multi-cultural marketing, non-profit marketing, public affairs, public relations, reputation consulting, retail marketing, search engine marketing, social media marketing and sports and event marketing. In an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of our services to key clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and group them into the following four categories: advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications.

Revenue for 2013 and 2012 and the percentage change in revenue and organic growth from 2012 by discipline was (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We operate in a number of industry sectors. The percentage of our revenue by industry sector for 2013 and 2012 was:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

18

Operating Expenses

Operating expenses for 2013 compared to 2012 were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Salary and service costs tend to fluctuate in conjunction with changes in revenue. Salary and service costs increased 3.1% in 2013 compared to 2012, reflecting growth in revenue and an increase in employee compensation, including incentive compensation and severance, as well as increases related to changes in the mix of our business during the year.

Office and general expenses are less directly linked to changes in our revenue than salary and service costs. Office and general expenses decreased 0.7% in 2013 compared to 2012, reflecting our continuing efforts to control the cost structures of our agencies.

In the second half of 2013 we incurred $41.4 million of expenses in connection with the pending merger with Publicis, which are primarily comprised of professional fees. The merger expenses are shown as a separate component of operating expenses and we expect to incur additional merger expenses in 2014.

Operating margins decreased to 12.5% in 2013 from 12.7% in 2012 and EBITA margins decreased to 13.2% in 2013 from 13.4% in 2012. Excluding the merger expenses of $41.4 million, operating margins for 2013 increased to 12.8% from 12.7% in 2012 and EBITA margins for 2013 increased to 13.5% from 13.4% in 2012

Net Interest Expense

Net interest expense increased to $164.4 million in 2013 from $144.6 million in 2012. Interest expense increased $17.5 million to $197.2 million. The increase in interest expense is primarily attributable to the issuance of $750 million of our 2022 Notes in April 2012 and $500 million of our 2022 Notes in August 2012. Interest income decreased $2.3 million to $32.8 million in 2013.

Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate increased to 34.0% in 2013 from 31.8% in 2012. Excluding the income tax effect of the merger expenses of $6.5 million, which reflects the estimated impact of the non-deductibility of a significant portion of the merger expenses, our effective tax rate for 2013 was 33.6%, which is consistent with our expected effective tax rate for 2013 and reflects the full year effect of the reduction in income tax expense resulting from the implementation of the legal reorganization in the Asia Pacific region, which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2012.

Income (Loss) From Equity Method Investments

Income (loss) from equity method investments increased $30.9 million to $15.9 million in 2013 compared to a loss of $15.0 million in 2012, primarily resulting from a net impairment charge of $29.2 million recorded in 2012 for an other-than-temporary decline in the carrying value of our equity investment in Egypt.

19

Net Income Per Common Share - Omnicom Group Inc.

Net income - Omnicom Group Inc. decreased $7.2 million, or 0.7%, to $991.1 million in 2013 from $998.3 million in 2012. The year-over-year decrease in net income - Omnicom Group Inc. is due to the factors described above. Diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. increased 2.8% to $3.71 in 2013, compared to $3.61 in 2012 due to the factors described above, as well as the slight reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding. The reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding was the result of repurchases of our common stock through the second quarter of 2013, net of stock option exercises, shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan and shares issued upon the conversion of our 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes. In connection with the pending merger with Publicis, beginning in the third quarter of 2013 we suspended repurchases of our common stock in the open market. Excluding the net effect of the merger expenses, net income - Omnicom Group Inc. for 2013 was $1,026.0 million and diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. was $3.84.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - 2012 Compared to 2011 (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

EBITA, which we define as earnings before interest, taxes and amortization of intangible assets, and EBITA Margin, which we define as EBITA divided by Revenue, are Non-GAAP financial measures. We use EBITA and EBITA Margin as additional operating performance measures, which exclude the non-cash amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. The table above reconciles EBITA and EBITA Margin to the U.S. GAAP financial measure of Operating Income for the periods presented. We believe that EBITA and EBITA Margin are useful measures to evaluate the performance of our businesses. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.

Revenue

Revenue in 2012 increased 2.5% to $14,219.4 million from $13,872.5 million in 2011. Organic growth increased revenue by $561.9 million and acquisitions, net of dispositions, increased revenue by $95.0 million. Changes in foreign exchange rates reduced revenue by $310.0 million.

20

The components of 2012 revenue change in the United States (“Domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“International”) were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The components and percentages are calculated as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The acquisition component is calculated by aggregating the applicable prior period revenue of the acquired businesses, less revenue of any business included in the prior period revenue that was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.

•Organic growth is calculated by subtracting both the foreign exchange and acquisition components from total revenue growth.

•The percentage change is calculated by dividing the individual component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component ($13,872.5 million for the Total column).

In 2012, changes in foreign exchange rates reduced revenue by 2.2%, or $310.0 million, compared to 2011. The most significant impacts resulted from the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro, Brazilian Real and British Pound.

Revenue in 2012 and the percentage change in revenue and organic growth from 2011 in our primary geographic markets were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue for 2012 and the percentage change in revenue and organic growth from 2011 in our principal regional markets were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

21

 In the normal course of business, our agencies both gain and lose business from clients each year due to a variety of factors. The net result in 2012 was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our largest client represented 2.6% of our revenue in each of 2012 and 2011, respectively. No other client represented more than 2.6% of our revenue in 2012 or more than 2.1% of our revenue in 2011. Our ten largest and 100 largest clients represented 19.0% and 51.7% of 2012 revenue, respectively, and 18.0% and 50.3% of 2011 revenue, respectively.

Revenue for 2012 and 2011 and the percentage change in revenue and organic growth from 2011 by discipline was (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We operate in a number of industry sectors. The percentage of our revenue by industry sector for 2012 and 2011 was:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Expenses

Operating expenses for 2012 compared to 2011 were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Repositioning Actions and Remeasurement Gain

In 2011, we recorded $131.3 million of charges related to our repositioning actions. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2011 we recorded a $123.4 million remeasurement gain related to the acquisition of the controlling interest in the Clemenger Group, our affiliate in Australia and New Zealand.

22

The impact on operating expenses of these transactions for the year ended December 31, 2011 was (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Expenses

Salary and services costs tend to fluctuate in conjunction with changes in revenue. Salary and service costs increased 1.3% in 2012 compared to 2011. Salary and service costs for 2011 reflects $92.8 million of charges related to our repositioning actions. The increase in 2012 costs resulted from growth in our business, as well as increased use of freelance labor, partially offset by lower compensation costs, including incentive compensation primarily as a result of the repositioning actions taken in 2011 and tight controls restricting the frequency of salary increases. Excluding the $92.8 million of severance charges taken in 2011, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue in 2012 would have been flat as compared to 2011.

Office and general expenses are less directly linked to changes in our revenue than salary and service costs. Office and general expenses increased 4.4% in 2012 compared to 2011, reflecting a decrease of $123.4 million related to the non-cash remeasurement gain recorded in connection with the acquisition of the controlling interest in the Clemenger Group in 2011, partially offset by $38.5 million of charges related to our repositioning actions in the first quarter of 2011. Excluding the $84.9 million net decrease, office and general expenses in 2012 would have been flat as compared to 2011.

Operating margins increased to 12.7% in 2012 from 12.0% in 2011 and EBITA margins increased to 13.4% in 2012 from 12.7% in 2011. Excluding the $131.3 million attributable to our repositioning actions and the $123.4 million remeasurement gain, operating margin and EBITA margin for 2011 would have been 12.1% and 12.8%, respectively. The year-over-year margin improvement was driven by our revenue growth, as well as lower operating costs resulting from the actions taken in 2011 to improve our operations, rebalance our workforce and drive efficiencies in our back office functions.

Net Interest Expense

Net interest expense increased to $144.6 million in 2012 from to $122.1 million in 2011. Interest expense increased $21.6 million to $179.7 million. The increase in interest expense was primarily due to increased interest expense resulting from the issuance of our 2022 Notes in 2012. The increase in interest expense was partially offset by lower commercial paper issuances in 2012. Interest income decreased $0.9 million to $35.1 million in 2012.

Income Taxes

Our effective tax rate for 2012 decreased to 31.8% from 32.7% for 2011. In the fourth quarter of 2012, income tax expense was reduced by $53 million, primarily resulting from a reduction in the deferred tax liabilities for unremitted foreign earnings of certain of our operating companies located in the Asia Pacific region, as well as lower statutory tax rates in other foreign jurisdictions. In an effort to support our continued expansion and pursue operational efficiencies in the Asia Pacific region, we completed a legal reorganization in certain countries within the region. As a result of the reorganization, our unremitted foreign earnings in the affected countries are subject to lower effective tax rates as compared to the U.S. statutory tax rate. Therefore we recorded a reduction in our deferred tax liabilities to reflect the lower tax rate that these earnings are subject to. In future periods we expect an ongoing annual reduction in income tax expense of approximately $11 million. The reduction in income tax expense was partially offset by a charge of approximately $16 million resulting from U.S. state and local tax accruals recorded for uncertain tax positions, net of U.S. federal income tax benefit.

Income tax expense for 2011 reflects a $39.5 million tax benefit related to charges incurred in connection with our repositioning actions, a provision of $2.8 million related to the remeasurement gain and a provision of $9.0 million for agreed upon adjustments to income tax returns that were under examination in 2011. Excluding these items, our effective tax rate for 2011 would have been 34.3%.

Income (Loss) From Equity Method Investments

Income (loss) from equity method investments decreased $32.2 million to a loss of $15.0 million in 2012 compared to income of $17.2 million in 2011, primarily resulting from a net impairment charge of $29.2 million recorded in 2012 for an other-than-temporary decline in the carrying value of our equity investment in Egypt.

23

Net Income Per Common Share - Omnicom Group Inc.

Net income - Omnicom Group Inc. increased $45.7 million, or 4.8%, to $998.3 million in 2012 from $952.6 million in 2011. The year-over-year increase in net income - Omnicom Group Inc. is due to the factors described above. Diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. increased 8.4% to $3.61 in 2012, as compared to $3.33 in 2011 due to the factors described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding. This reduction was the result of repurchases of our common stock, net of stock option exercises and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash Sources and Requirements

Historically, the majority of our non-discretionary cash requirements have been funded from operating cash flow and cash on hand. Working capital is our principal non-discretionary funding requirement. In addition, we have contractual obligations related to our Senior Notes and 2032 Notes, our recurring business operations, primarily related to lease obligations, as well as contingent purchase price obligations (earn-outs) for acquisitions made in prior years. 

Our principal discretionary cash uses include dividend payments, capital expenditures, payments for strategic acquisitions and repurchases of our common stock. In connection with the pending merger with Publicis, beginning in the third quarter of 2013 we suspended repurchases of our common stock in the open market. Our discretionary spending is funded from operating cash flow and cash on hand. In addition, depending on the level of our discretionary activity and conditions in the capital markets, we may use other available sources of funding, such as issuing commercial paper, borrowing under our Credit Agreement or other long-term borrowings, to finance these activities. We expect that we should be able to fund both our non-discretionary cash requirements and our discretionary spending for 2014 without incurring additional long-term debt. However, we may access the capital markets at any time if favorable conditions exist. 

We have a seasonal cash requirement normally peaking during the second quarter primarily due to the timing of payments for incentive compensation, income taxes and contingent purchase price obligations. This typically results in a net borrowing requirement that decreases over the course of the year.

At December 31, 2013, our cash and cash equivalents increased by $32.2 million from December 31, 2012. The components of the increase for 2013 are (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

24

Principal Cash Sources and Principal Cash Uses amounts are Non-GAAP financial measures. These amounts exclude changes in working capital and other investing and financing activities, including commercial paper issuances and redemptions used to fund working capital changes. This presentation reflects the metrics used by us to assess our sources and uses of cash and was derived from our statement of cash flows. We believe that this presentation is meaningful for understanding the primary sources and primary uses of our cash flow. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. Additional information regarding our cash flows can be found in our consolidated financial statements.

Cash Management

We manage our cash and liquidity centrally through our regional treasury centers in North America, Europe and Asia. The treasury centers are managed by our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries. Each day, operations with excess funds invest these funds with their regional treasury center. Likewise, operations that require funds borrow from their regional treasury center. The treasury centers aggregate the net position which is either invested with or borrowed from third parties. To the extent that our treasury centers require liquidity, they have the ability to access local currency uncommitted lines of credit, the Credit Agreement or issue up to a total of $1.5 billion of U.S. Dollar-denominated commercial paper. This process enables us to manage our debt balances more efficiently and utilize our cash more effectively, as well as better manage our risk to foreign exchange rate changes. In countries where we either do not conduct treasury operations or it is not feasible for one of our treasury centers to fund net borrowing requirements on an intercompany basis, we arrange for local currency uncommitted lines of credit. 

Our cash and cash equivalents increased $32.2 million and our short-term investments decreased $2.4 million from December 31, 2012. Short-term investments principally consist of time deposits with financial institutions that we expect to convert into cash within our current operating cycle, generally one year.

At December 31, 2013 our total cash and cash equivalents were $2.7 billion, of which our foreign subsidiaries held approximately $2.3 billion. The majority of the cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries is available to us, net of any taxes payable upon repatriation to the United States. Changes in international tax rules or changes in U.S. tax rules and regulations covering international operations and foreign tax credits may affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business.

We have policies governing counterparty credit risk with financial institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents and we have deposit limits for each financial institution. In countries where we conduct treasury operations, generally the counterparties are either branches or subsidiaries of the financial institutions that are party to our Credit Agreement. These financial institutions generally have credit ratings equal to or better than our credit ratings. In countries where we do not conduct treasury operations, we ensure that all cash and cash equivalents are held by counterparties that meet specific minimum credit standards.

Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments increased $29.8 million from the prior year end. Our net debt position at December 31, 2013, which we define as total debt outstanding less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, decreased $445.4 million as compared to December 31, 2012 as follows (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

25

Net Debt, which we define as total debt less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments as reconciled above, is a Non-GAAP financial measure. This presentation, together with the comparable U.S. GAAP measures, reflects one of the key metrics used by us to assess our cash management performance. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with US GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.

On May 16, 2013, we called our 2033 Notes and our 2038 Notes for redemption on June 17, 2013 at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount. As provided in the indenture governing the 2033 Notes and the 2038 Notes, prior to redemption the noteholders had the right to convert their 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 19.4174 shares per $1,000 principal amount at any time prior to June 13, 2013. Substantially all the noteholders exercised their conversion right. We paid $406.1 million in cash representing the principal amount of the 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes that were converted and issued 1,499,792 shares of our common stock to satisfy the conversion premium. On June 17, 2013, we paid $0.6 million to redeem the remaining 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes that were not converted.

Debt Instruments and Related Covenants

We have committed and uncommitted lines of credit. Our $2.5 billion Credit Agreement expires on October 12, 2016. We have the ability to classify borrowings under the Credit Agreement as long-term. The Credit Agreement provides support for up to $1.5 billion of commercial paper issuances and such issuances reduce the amount available under the Credit Agreement. 

Depending on market conditions at the time, we typically fund our day-to-day liquidity by issuing commercial paper, borrowing under our uncommitted lines of credit or borrowing under our Credit Agreement. At December 31, 2013, there were no outstanding commercial paper issuances or borrowings under the Credit Agreement.

Commercial paper activity for the three years ended December 31, 2013 was (dollars in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2013, short-term borrowings of $5.9 million represent bank overdrafts and lines of credit of our international subsidiaries. These bank overdrafts and lines of credit are treated as unsecured loans pursuant to the agreements supporting the facilities.

The Credit Agreement contains financial covenants that require us to maintain a Leverage Ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated EBITDA to no more than 3 times for the most recently ended 12-month period (under the Credit Agreement, EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) and an Interest Coverage Ratio of consolidated EBITDA to interest expense of at least 5 times for the most recently ended 12-month period. At December 31, 2013 we were in compliance with these covenants, as our Leverage Ratio was 1.9 times and our Interest Coverage Ratio was 10.7 times. The Credit Agreement does not limit our ability to declare or pay dividends.

S&P rates our long-term debt BBB+ and Moody’s rates our long-term debt Baa1. Our short-term debt credit ratings are A2 and P2 by the respective rating agencies. Our outstanding Senior Notes, 2032 Notes and Credit Agreement do not contain provisions that require acceleration of cash payments should our debt credit ratings be downgraded. However, the interest rates and fees on the Credit Agreement will increase if our long-term debt credit ratings are lowered. Our 2032 Notes would become convertible into shares of our common stock if the credit ratings assigned to the 2032 Notes are downgraded to BBB or lower by S&P or Baa3 or lower by Moody’s.

Omnicom Capital Inc., or OCI, our wholly-owned finance subsidiary, together with us, is a co-obligor under our Senior Notes and our 2032 Notes. Our Senior Notes and 2032 Notes are a joint and several liability of us and OCI and we unconditionally guarantee OCI’s obligations with respect to the Senior Notes and the 2032 Notes. OCI provides funding for our operations by incurring debt and lending the proceeds to our operating subsidiaries. OCI’s assets consist of cash and cash equivalents and intercompany loans made to our operating subsidiaries and the related interest receivable. There are no restrictions on the ability of OCI or us to obtain funds from our subsidiaries through dividends, loans or advances. Our Senior Notes and 2032 Notes are senior unsecured obligations that rank in equal right of payment with all existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness.

26

At December 31, 2013, the carrying value of our debt and the amount available under the Credit Agreement were (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Markets and Availability of Credit

We will continue to take actions available to us to respond to changing economic conditions and actively manage our discretionary expenditures and we will continue to monitor and manage the level of credit made available to our clients. We believe that these actions, in addition to operating cash flow and the availability of our Credit Agreement, are sufficient to fund our working capital needs and our discretionary spending.

In funding our day-to-day liquidity, we have historically been a participant in the commercial paper market. We expect to continue funding our day-to-day liquidity through the commercial paper market. However, prior disruptions in the credit markets led to periods of illiquidity in the commercial paper market and higher credit spreads. During these periods of disruption, we used our uncommitted lines of credit and borrowed under our Credit Agreement to mitigate these conditions and to fund our day-to-day liquidity. We will continue to closely monitor our liquidity and the credit markets. We cannot predict with any certainty the impact on us of any future disruptions in the credit markets.

Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments

We enter into numerous contractual and commercial undertakings in the normal course of business. The following tables should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements.

Contractual obligations at December 31, 2013 were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

27

Contractual commitments at December 31, 2013 were (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On July 31, 2014, our 2032 Notes may be put back to us for cash and we have the right to redeem the 2032 Notes at any time on or after July 31, 2014. At December 31, 2013, the 2032 Notes are potentially convertible into 18.313 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount, subject to normal anti-dilution adjustments. If the put right is exercised, $252.7 million could be due in 2014. At December 31, 2013, we classified our 2032 Notes as long-term in our balance sheet because our Credit Agreement does not expire until October 2016 and it is our intention to fund any repurchase with the Credit Agreement.

Consistent with our acquisition strategy and past practice, certain of our acquisitions include an initial payment at closing and provide for future additional contingent purchase price payments (earn-outs). We use contingent purchase price structures in an effort to minimize the risk to us associated with potential future negative changes in the performance of the acquired business during the post-acquisition transition period. Contingent purchase price obligations are recorded as liabilities at the acquisition date fair value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the liability are recorded in our results of operations.

The unfunded benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans and liability for our postemployment arrangements was $217.7 million at December 31, 2013. In 2013, we contributed $5.5 million to our defined benefit pension plans and paid $13.4 million in benefits for our postemployment arrangements. We do not expect these payments to increase significantly in 2014.

The liability for uncertain tax positions is subject to uncertainty as to when or if the liability will be paid. We have assigned the liability to the periods presented based on our judgment as to when these liabilities will be resolved by the appropriate taxing authorities.

In the normal course of business, our agencies enter into contractual commitments with media providers and production companies on behalf of our clients at levels that can substantially exceed the revenue from our services. These commitments are included in accounts payable when the services are delivered by the media providers or production companies. If permitted by local law and the client agreement, many of our agencies purchase media and production services for our clients as an agent for a disclosed principal. In addition, while operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets, many of our agencies’ contracts with media and production providers specify that our agencies are not liable to the media and production providers under the theory of sequential liability until and to the extent we have been paid by our client for the media or production services.

Where purchases of media and production services are made by our agencies as a principal or are not subject to the theory of sequential liability, the risk of a material loss as a result of payment default by our clients could increase significantly and such a loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

In addition, methods of managing the risk of payment default, including obtaining credit insurance, requiring payment in advance, mitigating the potential loss in the marketplace or negotiating with media providers, may be less available or unavailable during a severe economic downturn.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk