Item 1. Business

Pending Business Combination

On July 27, 2013, the Company and Publicis Groupe S.A. (“Publicis”) entered into a Business Combination Agreement (the “Business Combination Agreement”) pursuant to which the Company and Publicis agreed, subject to the terms and conditions of the Business Combination Agreement, to combine their respective businesses (the “Business Combination”). In the Business Combination, Publicis will merge (the “Publicis Merger”) with and into Publicis Omnicom Group N.V., a newly-formed Dutch holding company (“Publicis Omnicom Group” or “HoldCo”), with Publicis Omnicom Group being the surviving entity in the Publicis Merger, and immediately after consummation of the Publicis Merger, a corporation wholly-owned by Publicis Omnicom Group will merge (the “Omnicom Merger” and together with the Publicis Merger, the “Mergers”) with and into the Company, with the Company being the surviving corporation in the Omnicom Merger.

In the Publicis Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Publicis will be exchanged for 1.000000 ordinary share of Publicis Omnicom Group. In addition, prior to completion of the Publicis Merger, Publicis intends to declare and pay a special dividend, in cash, in an amount equal to €1.00 per Publicis share (the “Publicis Transaction Dividend”). In the Omnicom Merger, each share of common stock of the Company will be converted into the right to receive 0.813008 of a Publicis Omnicom Group ordinary share, together with cash in lieu of fractional shares, subject to adjustment to account for certain changes in outstanding shares and certain excluded asset values as set forth in the Business Combination Agreement. Similarly, prior to completion of the Omnicom Merger, the Company intends to declare and pay a special cash dividend of $2.00 per share of the Company’s outstanding common stock (the “Omnicom Transaction Dividend” and, together with the Publicis Transaction Dividend, the “Transaction Dividends”), subject to adjustment to account for certain changes in outstanding shares of the parties and certain excluded asset values, in each case as set forth in the Business Combination Agreement, and, if necessary, to equalize the cumulative amount of regular dividends paid by the Company after July 27, 2013 with the cumulative amount of regular Publicis dividends paid after July 27, 2013. However, dividends of up to $0.80 per share in the aggregate paid to holders of the Company's common stock in respect of record dates after July 27, 2013 and before the Mergers are not included in this equalization. The payment of the Transaction Dividends is also subject to applicable law.

Completion of the transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement (which include the Mergers, the Publicis Transaction Dividend, and the Omnicom Transaction Dividend, collectively, the “Transactions”) will require resolution of all open issues, complexities and challenges and will be subject to the satisfaction or waiver, if legally permitted, of certain conditions including (a) approval and adoption of the Business Combination Agreement and the Omnicom Merger by the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Company, approval of the Cross-Border Merger Terms (as described in the Business Combination Agreement), and the Publicis Merger by the holders of two-thirds of the voting rights attached to the Publicis shares present at a meeting of the Publicis shareholders, and the approval of the Publicis Transaction Dividend by the holders of a majority of the voting rights attached to the Publicis shares present at a meeting of the Publicis shareholders; (b) approval by requisite governmental regulators and authorities, including approvals under applicable competition laws; (c) the listing of the Publicis Omnicom Group ordinary shares on applicable stock exchanges; (d) the absence of any law or order prohibiting the completion of the Transactions; and (e) the absence of a material adverse effect on either the Company or Publicis. Therefore, completion of the Transactions is unlikely to occur before the third quarter of 2014.

The completion of the Transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement will have a material effect on our future results of operations and financial position.

Our Business

Omnicom, a strategic holding company, was formed in 1986 by the merger of several leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies. We are a leading global advertising, marketing and corporate communications company and we operate in a highly competitive industry. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development and integration of interactive technologies and mediums, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it more complex for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn 

 1

to marketing service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing communications services designed to make the best use of their total marketing expenditures.

Our agencies operate in all major markets around the world and provide a comprehensive range of services, which we group into four fundamental disciplines: advertising, customer relationship management, or CRM, public relations and specialty communications. The services included in these disciplines are:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Although the medium used to reach a client’s target audience may differ across each of these disciplines, we develop and deliver the marketing message in a similar way by providing client-specific consulting services.

Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is to deliver our services and allocate our resources based on the specific requirements of our clients. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they have tended to consolidate their business with larger, multi-disciplinary agencies or integrated groups of agencies. Accordingly, our business model demands that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal organizational structures to execute against our clients’ specific marketing requirements. We believe that this organizational philosophy, and our ability to execute it, differentiates us from our competitors.

Our agency networks and our virtual networks provide us with the ability to integrate services across all disciplines and geographies. This means that the delivery of our services can, and does, take place across agencies, networks and geographic regions simultaneously. Further, we believe that our virtual network strategy facilitates better integration of services required by the demands of the marketplace for advertising and marketing communications services. Our over-arching business strategy is to continue to use our virtual networks to grow our business relationships with our clients.

The various components of our business and material factors that affected us in 2013 are discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A, of this report. None of our acquisitions or dispositions in the three year period ended December 31, 2013 was material to our financial position or results of operations. For information concerning our acquisitions, see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

Geographic Regions and Segments

Our revenue is almost evenly divided between our United States and international operations. For financial information concerning our domestic and international operations and segment reporting, see our MD&A and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements.

Our Clients

Consistent with our fundamental business strategy, our agencies serve similar clients, in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients, across a variety of geographic regions and locations. Our clients operate in virtually every industry sector of the global economy. Furthermore, in many cases, multiple agencies or networks serve different brand and/or product groups within the same clients. For example, in 2013, our largest client was served by more than 175 of our agencies and represented 2.7% of revenue and no other client accounted for more than 2.5% of revenue. In 2013, our top 100 clients, ranked 

2

by revenue, were each served, on average, by more than 50 of our agencies and collectively represented approximately 51% of revenue.

Our Employees

At December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 71,800 people. We are not party to any significant collective bargaining agreements. The skill sets of our workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and their selling proposition and to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established tailored training and education programs for our client service professionals around this competency. See our MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs on our results of operations.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

At January 31, 2014, our executive officers were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Each executive officer has held his present position for at least five years.

Additional information about our directors and executive officers will appear under the captions “Corporate Governance,” “Transactions with Related Persons,” “Election of Directors,” “Executive Compensation,” “Directors Compensation for Fiscal 2013” and “Stock Ownership” in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed with the SEC by April 10, 2014.

Item 1A. Risk Factors