Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

As a global service business, we operate in multiple foreign currencies and issue debt in the capital markets. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency fluctuations and the impact of interest rate changes. We limit these risks through risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives. For foreign currency exposure, derivatives are used as an economic hedge to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. For interest rate exposure, derivatives have been used to manage the related cost of debt.

As a result of using derivative instruments, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, we have a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based on specific minimum credit standards and other factors. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

28

We evaluate the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other relevant market risks on our derivative instruments. We periodically determine the potential loss from market risk on our derivative instruments by performing a value-at-risk, or VaR, analysis. VaR is a statistical model that utilizes historical currency exchange and interest rate data to measure the potential impact on future earnings of our derivative financial instruments assuming normal market conditions. The VaR model is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. Based on the results of the model, we estimate with 95% confidence a maximum one-day loss in fair value on our derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2013 was not material.

Because we use foreign currency instruments as an economic hedge, any gain or loss in fair value incurred on those instruments is generally offset by decreases or increases in the fair value of the underlying exposures. 

Foreign Exchange Risk

Our results of operations are subject to risk from the translation to U.S. Dollars of the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations, which are generally denominated in their local currency. The effects of currency exchange rate fluctuation on the translation of our results of operations are discussed in Note 19 of our consolidated financial statements. For the most part, revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are denominated in the same currency. This minimizes the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our results of operations.

While our major non-U.S. currency markets are the European Monetary Union, or the EMU, the United Kingdom, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, and Japan, our agencies conduct business in more than 50 different currencies. As an integral part of our treasury operations, we centralize our cash and use multicurrency pool arrangements to manage the foreign exchange risk between subsidiaries and their respective treasury centers from which they borrow or invest funds.

In certain circumstances, instead of using a multicurrency pool, operations can borrow or invest on an intercompany basis with a treasury center operating in a different currency. To manage the foreign exchange risk associated with these transactions, we use forward foreign exchange contracts. At December 31, 2013, we had outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $207.0 million mitigating the foreign exchange risk of the intercompany borrowing and investment activities.

Also, we use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with activities when revenue and expenses are not denominated in the same currency. In these instances, amounts are promptly settled or hedged with forward contracts. At December 31, 2013, we had outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $56.2 million mitigating the foreign exchange risk of these activities.

By using these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk of adverse foreign exchange changes by foregoing any gain (reward) which might have occurred if the markets moved favorably.

Interest Rate Risk

From time to time, we have issued debt in the capital markets. In prior years we have used interest rate swaps to manage our overall interest cost. At December 31, 2013, there were no interest rate swaps outstanding.

On July 31, 2014, our 2032 Notes may be put back to us for cash and we have the right to redeem the notes at any time on or after July 31, 2014. If the 2032 Notes are put back to us, our interest expense will change. The extent, if any, of the increase or decrease in interest expense will depend on the portion of the amount repurchased that is refinanced, when we refinance, the type of instrument we use to refinance and the term of the refinancing.

Credit Risk

We provide advertising, marketing and corporate communications services to several thousand clients who operate in nearly every industry sector of the global economy and in the normal course of business, we grant credit to qualified clients. Due to the diversified nature of our client base, we do not believe that we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk as our largest client accounted for 2.7% of revenue in 2013 and no other client accounted for more than 2.5% of revenue. However, during periods of economic downturn, the credit profiles of our clients could change.

29

In the normal course of business, our agencies enter into contractual commitments with media providers and production companies on behalf of our clients at levels that can substantially exceed the revenue from our services. These commitments are included in accounts payable when the services are delivered by the media providers or production companies. If permitted by local law and the client agreement, many of our agencies purchase media and production services for our clients as an agent for a disclosed principal. In addition, while operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets, many of our agencies’ contracts with media and production providers specify that our agencies are not liable to the media and production providers under the theory of sequential liability until and to the extent we have been paid by our client for the media or production services.

Where purchases of media and production services are made by our agencies as a principal or are not subject to the theory of sequential liability, the risk of a material loss as a result of payment default by our clients could increase significantly and such a loss could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.

In addition, methods of managing the risk of payment default, including obtaining credit insurance, requiring payment in advance, mitigating the potential loss in the marketplace or negotiating with media providers, may be less available or unavailable during a severe economic downturn.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data