ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

Executive Overview and Outlook 

Colgate-Palmolive Company seeks to deliver strong, consistent business results and superior shareholder returns by providing consumers on a global basis with products that make their lives healthier and more enjoyable.  

To this end, the Company is tightly focused on two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. Within these segments, the Company follows a closely defined business strategy to develop and increase market leadership positions in key product categories. These product categories are prioritized based on their capacity to maximize the use of the organization’s core competencies and strong global equities and to deliver sustainable long-term growth.  

Operationally, the Company is organized along geographic lines with management teams having responsibility for the business and financial results in each region. The Company competes in more than 200 countries and territories worldwide with established businesses in all regions contributing to the Company’s sales and profitability. This geographic diversity and balance help to reduce the Company’s exposure to business and other risks in any one country or part of the world.  

The Oral, Personal and Home Care segment is operated through four reportable operating segments: North America, Latin America, Europe/South Pacific and Greater Asia/Africa, all of which sell to a variety of retail and wholesale customers and distributors. The Company, through Hill’s Pet Nutrition, also competes on a worldwide basis in the pet nutrition market, selling its products principally through specialty pet retailers and the veterinary profession. 

On an ongoing basis, management focuses on a variety of key indicators to monitor business health and performance. These indicators include market share, sales (including volume, pricing and foreign exchange components), organic sales growth (Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments), gross profit margin, operating profit, net income and earnings per share, as well as measures used to optimize the management of working capital, capital expenditures, cash flow and return on capital. The monitoring of these indicators, and the Company’s corporate governance practices (including the Company’s Code of Conduct), help to maintain business health and strong internal controls.  

To achieve its business and financial objectives, the Company focuses the organization on initiatives to drive and fund growth. The Company seeks to capture significant opportunities for growth by identifying and meeting consumer needs within its core categories, through its focus on innovation and the deployment of valuable consumer and shopper insights in the development of successful new products regionally, which are then rolled out on a global basis. To enhance these efforts, the Company has developed key initiatives to build strong relationships with consumers, dental and veterinary professionals and retail customers. Growth opportunities are greater in those areas of the world in which economic development and rising consumer incomes expand the size and number of markets for the Company’s products.  

The investments needed to fund this growth are developed through continuous, Company-wide initiatives to lower costs and increase effective asset utilization through which the Company seeks to become even more effective and efficient throughout its businesses. The Company also continues to prioritize its investments toward its higher margin businesses, specifically Oral Care, Personal Care and Pet Nutrition. 

As disclosed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors”, with approximately 75% of its Net sales generated outside of the United States, the Company is exposed to changes in economic conditions and foreign currency exchange rates, as well as political uncertainty in some countries, all of which could impact future operating results.  

14 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

In particular, as a result of the devaluations of the Venezuelan bolivar fuerte, described more fully in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the local currency operations of the Company’s Venezuelan subsidiary (CP Venezuela) now translate into fewer U.S. dollars, which had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on the Company’s reported results. The Company has taken, and continues to take, actions to mitigate the impact of both devaluations on its operations. Additionally, the Venezuelan government continues to impose currency exchange controls and during 2010 a new currency market was established which replaced the free-floating parallel market. Although CP Venezuela continues to have limited access to U.S. dollars at the official rate and currently only for imported goo ds, under the current restrictions, it is not permitted to access the new currency market. The Company’s business in Venezuela and our ability to repatriate its earnings continue to be negatively affected by these difficult conditions and would be further negatively affected by additional devaluations or the imposition of additional currency exchange controls. For the year ended December 31, 2010, CP Venezuela represented 4% of the Company’s consolidated Net sales. At December 31, 2010, CP Venezuela’s monetary local currency net asset position was approximately $200. 

Looking forward, we expect global macroeconomic and market conditions to remain highly challenging. While the global marketplace in which we operate has always been highly competitive, the Company has recently experienced heightened competitive activity in certain markets from other large multinational companies, some of which may have greater resources than we do. Such activities have included more aggressive product claims and marketing challenges, as well as increased promotional spending. Additionally, we have experienced a sharp rise in commodity costs. While the Company has taken, and will continue to take, measures to address the heigh tened competitive activity and increased commodity costs, should these conditions persist, they could adversely affect the Company’s future results.  

The Company believes it is well prepared to meet the challenges ahead due to its strong financial condition, experience operating in challenging environments and continued focus on the Company’s strategic initiatives: getting closer to the consumer, the profession and customers; effectiveness and efficiency in everything; innovation everywhere; and leadership. This focus, together with the strength of the Company’s global brand names and its broad international presence in both mature and emerging markets, should position the Company well to increase shareholder value over the long-term. 

Results of Operations 

Net Sales 

Worldwide Net sales were $15,564 in 2010, up 1.5% from 2009 as volume growth of 3.0% and level selling prices were partially offset by a negative foreign exchange impact of 1.5%. Worldwide organic sales (Net sales excluding the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments) grew 3.0% in 2010. 

Net sales in the Oral, Personal and Home Care segment were $13,484 in 2010, up 2.0% from 2009, as volume growth of 4.0% and level selling prices were partially offset by a negative foreign exchange impact of 2.0%. Organic sales in the Oral, Personal and Home Care segment grew 4.0% in 2010. 

Net sales in Hill’s Pet Nutrition were $2,080 in 2010, down 2.5% from 2009 as 2.0% volume declines and net selling price decreases of 1.5% were partially offset by a 1.0% positive impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in Hill’s Pet Nutrition decreased 3.5% in 2010. 

Worldwide Net sales were $15,327 in 2009, level with 2008 as volume growth of 0.5% and net selling price increases of 6.0% were offset by a negative foreign exchange impact of 6.5%. Worldwide organic sales grew 6.5% in 2009. 

15 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Gross Profit 

Worldwide gross profit margin was 59.1% in 2010, 58.8% in 2009 and 56.3% in 2008. The gross profit margin increase in 2010 was due to a continued focus on cost-saving initiatives, partially offset by rising commodity costs and negative foreign exchange.  

The gross profit margin increase in 2009 was driven by higher pricing, a continued focus on cost-saving initiatives, and the absence of charges related to the 2004 Restructuring Program, partially offset by a negative foreign exchange impact and costs related to the remeasurement of liabilities related to inventory purchases in Venezuela. During 2008, restructuring and implementation-related charges incurred under the 2004 Restructuring Program included in Cost of sales were $59. The 2004 Restructuring Program lowered the reported gross profit margin by 40 bps in 2008. Excluding the impact of the 2004 Restructuring Program, gross profit margin was 56.7% in 2008.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales were 34.8% in 2010, 34.5% in 2009 and 35.4% in 2008. The 30 bps increase in 2010 was primarily due to higher advertising spending (60 bps), partially offset by the impact of cost-saving initiatives. The 90 bps decrease in 2009 was driven primarily by the absence of charges related to the 2004 Restructuring Program in 2009, lower advertising spending (80 bps) and a continued focus on cost-saving initiatives, partially offset by higher pension and benefit costs. In 2008, Selling, general and administrative expenses included $81 (0.5% of Net sales) of charges related to the 2004 Restructuring Program. 

Other (Income) Expense, Net 

Other (income) expense, net was $301, $111 and $103 in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The components of Other (income) expense, net are presented below: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

16 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Operating Profit 

In 2010, Operating profit decreased 3% to $3,489 from $3,615 in 2009, reflecting the one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela, termination benefits, higher advertising spending and the negative impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by the gain on sales of non-core product lines and a continued focus on cost-saving initiatives. In 2009, Operating profit increased 17% from $3,101 in 2008. Excluding the impact of the one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela, the 2004 Restructuring Program and other items set forth below, Operating profit increased 5% in 2010 and 11% in 2009 as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Interest Expense, Net 

Interest expense, net was $59 in 2010 compared with $77 in 2009 and $96 in 2008. The decrease in Interest expense, net from 2009 to 2010 was due to lower average interest rates. The decrease in Interest expense, net from 2008 to 2009 was due to lower average interest rates and lower debt levels. 

Income Taxes 

The effective income tax rate was 32.6% in 2010 and 32.2% in both 2009 and 2008 and all years benefited from global tax strategies. The impact on the Company’s effective income tax rate of the one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela and other items in 2010 was as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Net Income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company 

Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company was $2,203, or $4.31 per share on a diluted basis in 2010 compared with $2,291, or $4.37 per share on a diluted basis in 2009 and $1,957 or $3.66 per share in 2008. In 2010, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company included the $271 ($0.53 per share) one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela, $61 in aftertax charges ($0.12 per share) for termination benefits, a $30 ($0.06 per share) aftertax gain from the sale of non-core product lines in Latin America and a $31 ($0.06 per share) aftertax gain related to the reorganization of an overseas subsidiary. 

Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company in 2008 included $113 ($0.21 per share) of charges related to the Company’s 2004 Restructuring Program. 

17 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Segment Results 

The Company markets its products in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world in two distinct business segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, including Operating profit. The Company uses Operating profit as a measure of the operating segment performance because it excludes the impact of corporate-driven decisions related to interest expense and income taxes. 

Worldwide Net Sales by Business Segment and Geographic Region 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Worldwide Operating Profit by Business Segment and Geographic Region 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

North America 

Net sales in North America increased 2.0% in 2010 to $3,005 as a result of 3.5% volume growth and a 1.0% positive impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by 2.5% net selling price decreases. Organic sales in North America grew 1.0% in 2010. Products contributing to growth in oral care included Colgate Triple Action, Colgate Sensitive MultiProtection and Colgate Total toothpastes, Colgate 360° ActiFlex, Colgate Max White and Colgate Extra Clean manual toothbrushes and the Colgate Wisp mini-brush. Products contributing to growth in other categories included Softsoap Body Butter Mega Moisture and Irish Spring Intensify body washes, Speed Stick Stainguard deodorant and Fabuloso Aroma Sensations liquid cleaner. Net sales in North America increased 3.5% in 2009 to $2,950 as a result of 4.0% volume growth and level selling prices, par tially offset by a 0.5% negative impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in North America grew 4.0% in 2009. 

Operating profit in North America increased 5% to $884 in 2010 due to sales growth and cost-saving initiatives, partially offset by increased promotional investments. In 2009, Operating profit in North America increased 22% to $843 due to sales growth, cost-saving initiatives and lower raw and packaging material costs. 

Latin America 

Net sales in Latin America decreased 1.5% in 2010 to $4,261, as 2.0% volume growth and net selling price increases of 5.5% were more than offset by a 9.0% negative impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in Latin America grew 7.5% in 2010. Volume gains achieved in Mexico, Colombia, Ecuador, Dominican Republic and Central America were partially offset by volume declines in Venezuela. Products contributing to growth in oral care included Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief and Colgate Total toothpastes, Colgate 360° ActiFlex, Colgate Twister and Colgate Zig Zag manual toothbrushes and Colgate Plax Whitening Tartar Control and Colgate Plax Complete Care mouthwashes. Products contributing to growth in other categories included Palmolive Natura ls Yogurt and Almond Oil and Palmolive Natural Perfect Tone bar soaps, Lady Speed Stick Waterproof and Speed Stick Extreme deodorants and Protex Propolis bar soap. In 2009, Net sales in Latin America increased 5.5% to $4,319 as a result of 3.0% volume growth and net selling price increases of 13.5%, partially offset by an 11.0% negative impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in Latin America grew 16.5% in 2009. 

18 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Operating profit in Latin America decreased 5% in 2010 to $1,295, as higher raw and packaging material costs, higher advertising spending and increased promotional investments were partially offset by cost-saving initiatives. In 2009, Operating profit in Latin America increased 15% to $1,360 as a result of sales growth and cost-saving initiatives. 

Europe/South Pacific 

Net sales in Europe/South Pacific decreased 1.5% in 2010 to $3,220 as volume growth of 2.0% was more than offset by net selling price decreases of 3.0% and a 0.5% negative impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in Europe/South Pacific declined 1.0% in 2010. Volume gains in the GABA business, the United Kingdom, Australia and Denmark were partially offset by volume declines in Romania, Portugal, Greece and France. Products contributing to growth in oral care included Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief, Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Whitening, elmex Sensitive Professional and Colgate Max White One toothpastes, Colgate 360° ActiFlex manual toothbrush, Colgate 360° ActiFlex Sonic Power battery powered toothbrush and Colgate Plax Ice mouth rinse. Products contributing to growth in other categories included Palmolive Nutra-Fru it shower crème and the Natura Verde line of home care products. In 2009, Net sales in Europe/South Pacific decreased 8.5% to $3,271 as net selling price increases of 0.5% were more than offset by 0.5% in volume declines and an 8.5% negative impact of foreign exchange. The 2008 divestment of a non-core brand in Germany impacted sales growth for 2009 by 0.5% versus 2008. Excluding the impact of this divestment, Net sales decreased 8.0% in 2009 and volume was level with 2008. Organic sales in Europe/South Pacific grew 0.5% in 2009. 

Operating profit in Europe/South Pacific decreased 1% in 2010 to $742, as a continued focus on cost-saving initiatives was more than offset by negative sales growth, higher advertising spending and increased promotional investments. In 2009, Operating profit in Europe/South Pacific was level at $748, as a continued focus on cost-saving initiatives, lower advertising spending and lower raw and packaging material costs offset the negative impact of foreign exchange. 

Greater Asia/Africa 

Net sales in Greater Asia/Africa increased 13.0% in 2010 to $2,998 as volume growth of 10.5% and a 4.0% positive impact of foreign exchange were partially offset by net selling price decreases of 1.5%. Organic sales in Greater Asia/Africa grew 9.0% in 2010. Volume gains were led by the Greater China region, India, Thailand, Philippines, Malaysia, Turkey and Russia. Products driving oral care growth included Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief, Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief Whitening, Colgate Total and Colgate Herbal Salt toothpastes, Colgate 360° ActiFlex, Colgate Massager and Colgate Twister Gum Care manual toothbrushes and Colgate Plax Complete Care mouthwash. Products contributing to growth in other categories included Lady Speed Stick Breathing Skin and Mennen Speed Stick Breathe and Protect deodorants. In 2009, Net sales in Greater Asi a/Africa were level at $2,655 as volume growth of 2% and net selling prices of 6.0% were offset by a 8.0% negative impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in Greater Asia/Africa grew 8.0% in 2009. 

Operating profit in Greater Asia/Africa increased 22% in 2010 to $767, reflecting higher sales growth and cost-saving initiatives, partially offset by higher advertising spending. In 2009, Operating profit in Greater Asia/Africa increased 20% to $631, reflecting higher pricing, lower raw and packaging material costs and cost-saving initiatives.  

19 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Hill’s Pet Nutrition 

Net sales for Hill’s Pet Nutrition decreased 2.5% in 2010 to $2,080 as 2.0% volume declines and 1.5% net selling price decreases were partially offset by a 1.0% positive impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in Hill’s Pet Nutrition declined 3.5% in 2010. Volume declined in the U.S., Russia, Japan, the Nordic countries, France and Germany, while volume gains were achieved in Australia and South Africa. Volume was negatively impacted as a result of heightened competitive activity and in part due to residual effects of price increases taken in late 2008 and early 2009 in response to significantly higher commodity costs. The Company has taken steps to adjust on-shelf product pricing and sizing and this, combined with the introduction of innovative new products, has resulted in increased unit c onsumption towards the end of 2010 as compared to the prior year. Successful new products within the U.S. included Science Diet Small and Toy Breed Canine, Science Diet Healthy Mobility Canine, Science Diet Weight Loss System and Prescription Diet Therapeutic Weight Reduction Program. Successful products contributing to international sales included Science Diet Small and Toy Breed Canine, Science Diet Senior Advanced Canine and Feline, Science Plan Sterilized Cat and Science Plan VetEssentials Canine and Feline. In 2009, Net sales for Hill’s Pet Nutrition decreased 0.5% to $2,132 as 8.5% net selling price increases were more than offset by 7.5% volume declines and a 1.5% negative impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in Hill’s Pet Nutrition grew 1.0% in 2009. 

Operating profit for Hill’s Pet Nutrition increased 1% to $559 in 2010 due to cost-saving initiatives and lower raw and packaging material costs. In 2009, Operating profit increased 2% to $555 due to higher pricing, lower raw and packaging material costs and cost-saving initiatives. 

Corporate 

Operating profit (loss) for the Corporate segment was ($758), ($522) and ($584) in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Corporate operations include Corporate overhead costs, research and development costs, stock-based compensation expense related to stock options and restricted stock awards, restructuring and related implementation costs and gains and losses on sales of non-core product lines and assets. The components of Operating profit (loss) for the Corporate segment are presented below: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

20 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Corporate Operating profit (loss) in 2010 showed an increased loss as compared to 2009, primarily due to the one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela and termination benefits, primarily relating to ongoing overhead reduction initiatives at Hill’s of $48 and in Europe of $29, partially offset by the gain on sales of non-core product lines in Latin America and a decrease in Corporate overhead costs. Corporate Operating profit (loss) in 2009 showed a decreased loss as compared to 2008, primarily due to charges related to the 2004 Restructuring Program in 2008, offset by higher Corporate overhead costs, primarily pension and benefit costs.  

For additional information regarding the Company’s 2004 Restructuring Program, refer to “Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges” below and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 

Net sales growth, both worldwide and in relevant geographic divisions, is discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K both on a GAAP basis and excluding divestments (non-GAAP). Management believes this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful supplemental information to investors as it allows comparisons of Net sales growth from ongoing operations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also discusses organic sales growth (Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments) (non-GAAP). Management believes this measure provides investors with useful supplemental information regarding the Company’s underlying sales trends by presenting sales growth excluding the external factor of foreign exchange, as well as the impact of acquisitions and divestments. 

Worldwide Gross profit margin, Operating profit and the effective tax rate are discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K both on a GAAP basis and excluding the impact of the one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela as of January 1, 2010, the 2004 Restructuring Program and certain other items described above (non-GAAP). Management believes these measures provide investors with useful supplemental information regarding the Company’s underlying business trends and performance of the Company’s ongoing operations and are useful for period-over-period comparisons of such operations. 

The Company uses the above financial measures internally in its budgeting process and as a factor in determining compensation. While the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company’s business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies. 

Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges 

The Company’s four-year restructuring and business building program (the 2004 Restructuring Program) to enhance the Company’s global leadership position in its core businesses was finalized as of December 31, 2008. There were no charges incurred in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Charges incurred in 2008 amounted to $164. The restructuring accrual decreased from $15 at December 31, 2009 to $8 at December 31, 2010, primarily due to cash payments for termination benefits, exit activities and the implementation of strategies. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company expects cash flow from operations and debt issuances will be sufficient to meet foreseeable business operating and recurring cash needs (including debt service, dividends, capital expenditures and planned stock repurchases). The Company believes its strong cash generation and financial position should continue to allow it broad access to global capital markets. 

21 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Cash Flow 

Net cash provided by operations in 2010 was $3,211 as compared with $3,277 in 2009 and $2,302 in 2008. The decrease in 2010 as compared to 2009 was due to increased working capital. The increase in 2009 as compared to 2008 reflects improved profitability, decreased working capital and lower cash spending related to the 2004 Restructuring Program, partially offset by higher tax payments.  

The Company defines working capital as the difference between current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, the latter of which is reported in Other current assets) and current liabilities (excluding short-term debt). Overall, the Company’s working capital increased to 0.3% of Net sales in 2010 as compared with (0.4%) in 2009. The increase in working capital as a percentage of Net sales in 2010 was due primarily to lower accrued income taxes. 

Investing activities used $658 of cash during 2010 compared with uses of $841 and $613 during 2009 and 2008, respectively. Capital expenditures were $550, $575 and $684 for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Lower capital expenditures in 2010 and 2009 reflected the completion of certain capacity expansions, as well as the completion of the 2004 Restructuring Program at the end of 2008. Capital spending continues to focus primarily on projects that yield high aftertax returns. Overall capital expenditures for 2011 are expected to represent approximately 3.5% of Net sales. 

Net cash outflows from activity related to marketable securities and other investments were lower in 2010 than in 2009. During 2009, the Company purchased $210 of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds issued by a Venezuelan state-owned corporation and $50 of U.S. dollar-linked, devaluation-protected bonds issued by the Venezuelan government. During 2010, CP Venezuela sold all of the U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to obtain U.S. dollars in order to support current and future operations and purchased an additional $67 of the U.S. dollar-linked, devaluation-protected bonds to reduce the Company’s exposure to the Venezuelan bolivar fuerte. See Notes 7 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Separately, during 2010, the Company invested $136 in a portfolio of euro-denominated investment grade fixed incom e securities, including corporate bonds.  

Financing activities used $2,624 of cash during 2010 compared to $2,270 and $1,530 during 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to higher repurchases of common stock and dividends paid, partially offset by higher net proceeds from issuances of debt. The increase in 2009 was primarily due to higher net debt payments and an increase in dividends paid.  

Long-term debt increased to $3,376 as of December 31, 2010 as compared to $3,147 as of December 31, 2009 and total debt increased to $3,424 as of December 31, 2010 as compared to $3,182 as of December 31, 2009. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company issued $250 of ten-year notes at a fixed rate of 2.95% and $188 of five-year notes at a fixed rate of 1.375% under the Company’s shelf registration statement. Proceeds from the debt issuances were used to reduce commercial paper borrowings. During the third quarter of 2009, the Company issued $300 of U.S. dollar-denominated six-year notes at a fixed rate of 3.15% under the Company’s shelf registration statement. Proceeds from the debt issuance were used to reduce commercial paper and other borrowings.  

At December 31, 2010, the Company had access to unused domestic and foreign lines of credit of $2,317 and could also issue medium-term notes pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement. The Company has borrowing capacity under its domestic revolving credit facility of $1,600, and the facility has an expiration date of November 2012. These domestic lines are available for general corporate purposes and to support the issuance of commercial paper. 

22 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Domestic and foreign commercial paper outstanding was $214 and $0 as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average daily balances outstanding for commercial paper in 2010 and 2009 were $1,146 and $1,144, respectively. The maximum daily balance outstanding for commercial paper during 2010 and 2009 was $1,628 and $1,556, respectively. The Company regularly classifies commercial paper and certain current maturities of notes payable as long-term debt as it has the intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term basis, including, if necessary, by utilizing its line of credit that expires in 2012. 

Following is a summary of the Company’s commercial paper and global short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2010 and 2009: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Certain of the facilities with respect to the Company’s bank borrowings contain financial and other covenants as well as cross-default provisions. Noncompliance with these requirements could ultimately result in the acceleration of amounts owed. The Company is in full compliance with all such requirements and believes the likelihood of noncompliance is remote. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the Company’s long-term debt and credit facilities. 

Dividend payments in 2010 were $1,142, an increase from $981 in 2009 and $889 in 2008. Common stock dividend payments increased to $2.03 per share in 2010 from $1.72 per share in 2009 and $1.56 per share in 2008. The Series B Preference stock dividend payments increased to $16.24 per share in 2010 from $13.76 per share in 2009 and $12.48 per share in 2008. On February 4, 2010, the Company’s Board of Directors increased the quarterly common stock cash dividend to $0.53 per share, effective as of the second quarter 2010. 

The Company repurchases shares of its common stock in the open market and in private transactions to maintain its targeted capital structure and to fulfill certain requirements of its compensation and benefit plans. On February 4, 2010 the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program (the 2010 Program) that replaced the Company’s previous share repurchase program which had been approved in 2008 (the 2008 Program). The 2010 Program authorizes the repurchase of up to 40 million shares of the Company’s common stock.  

Aggregate repurchases in 2010 included 24.4 million common shares under both the 2010 Program and the 2008 Program, and 1.0 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $2,020. Aggregate repurchases in 2009 included 13.9 million common shares under the 2008 Program and 1.0 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $1,063. Aggregate repurchases in 2008 included 13.8 million common shares under the 2008 Program and the repurchase program approved by the Board in 2006, and 0.9 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $1,073.  

23 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

The following represents the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

____________ 

  (1)   Includes the net interest payments on fixed and variable rate debt and associated interest rate swaps. Interest payments associated with floating rate instruments are based on management’s best estimate of projected interest rates for the remaining term of variable rate debt.     

  (2)   The Company had outstanding contractual obligations with suppliers at the end of 2010 for the purchase of raw, packaging and other materials and services in the normal course of business. These purchase obligation amounts represent only those items which are based on agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify minimum quantity, price and term and do not represent total anticipated purchases.     

Long-term liabilities associated with the Company’s postretirement plans are excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty of the timing of these cash disbursements. The amount and timing of cash funding related to these benefit plans will generally depend on local regulatory requirements, various economic assumptions (the most significant of which are detailed in “Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates,” below) and voluntary Company contributions. Based on current information, the Company does not anticipate having to make any mandatory contributions to its qualified U.S. pension plan until 2012. Management’s best estimate of cash requirements to be paid directly from the Company’s assets for its postretirement plans for the year ending December 31, 2011, is approxima tely $208, including approximately $100 of voluntary contributions to our U.S. pension plans. 

Additionally, liabilities for unrecognized income tax benefits are excluded from the table above as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of a settlement of such liabilities. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 

As more fully described in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, environmental matters, taxes and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

The Company does not have off-balance sheet financing or unconsolidated special purpose entities. 

24 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Managing Foreign Currency, Interest Rate and Commodity Price Exposure 

The Company is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price fluctuations. Volatility relating to these exposures is managed on a global basis by utilizing a number of techniques, including working capital management, selling price increases, selective borrowings in local currencies and entering into selective derivative instrument transactions, issued with standard features, in accordance with the Company’s treasury and risk management policies. The Company’s treasury and risk management policies prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes and leveraged derivatives for any purpose. 

The sensitivity of our financial instruments to market fluctuations is discussed below. See Notes 2 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of derivatives and hedging policies and fair value measurements. 

Foreign Exchange Risk 

As the Company markets its products in over 200 countries and territories, it is exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing and selling its products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company’s foreign currency exposures primarily reflect the Company’s operations in Latin America (27% of Net sales), Europe/South Pacific (21% of Net sales) and Asia/Africa (19% of Net sales). The Company manages its foreign currency exposures through a combination of cost-containment measures, selling price increases and the hedging of certain costs in an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements. See the “Results of Operations” section above for discussion of the foreign exchange impact on Net sales in each segment. 

The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, other than those operating in highly inflationary environments, are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates with resulting translation gains and losses accumulated in a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Income and expense items are translated into U.S. dollars at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. 

For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments (currently, Venezuela), inventories, prepaids, goodwill and property, plant and equipment are remeasured at their historical exchange rates, while other assets and liabilities are remeasured at year-end exchange rates. Remeasurement adjustments for these operations are included in Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company. 

The Company primarily utilizes foreign currency contracts, including forward, option and swap contracts, local currency deposits and local currency borrowings to hedge portions of its exposures relating to foreign currency purchases, assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business and the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. The duration of foreign currency contracts generally does not exceed 12 months and the contracts are valued using observable market rates. 

The Company’s foreign currency forward contracts that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting resulted in net unrealized losses of $3 at December 31, 2010 and net unrealized gains of $4 at December 31, 2009. Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss) and are reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the underlying hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. At the end of 2010, an unfavorable 10% change in exchange rates would have resulted in a net unrealized loss of $40. 

25 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Interest Rate Risk 

The Company manages its targeted mix of fixed and floating rate debt with debt issuances and by entering into interest rate swaps in order to mitigate fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may result from interest rate volatility. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt in all cases, and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. 

Based on year-end 2010 variable rate debt levels, a 1-percentage-point increase in interest rates would have increased Interest expense, net by $14 in 2010. 

Commodity Price Risk 

The Company is exposed to price volatility related to raw materials used in production, such as resins, tallow, essential oils, tropical oils, corn and soybeans. The Company manages its raw material exposures through a combination of cost containment measures, ongoing productivity initiatives and the limited use of commodity hedging contracts. Futures contracts are used on a limited basis, primarily in the Pet Nutrition segment, to manage volatility related to anticipated raw material inventory purchases of certain traded commodities. 

The Company’s open commodity derivative contracts, which qualify for cash flow hedge accounting, resulted in net unrealized gains of $4 and $0 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At the end of 2010, an unfavorable 10% change in commodity futures prices would have reduced the net unrealized gain to $2. 

Credit Risk 

The Company is exposed to the risk of credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to financial instrument contracts; however, nonperformance is considered unlikely as it is the Company’s policy to contract with highly rated, diverse counterparties. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

No new accounting pronouncement issued or which became effective during the fiscal year has had or is expected to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates 

The preparation of financial statements requires management to use judgment and make estimates. The level of uncertainty in estimates and assumptions increases with the length of time until the underlying transactions are completed. Actual results could ultimately differ from those estimates. The accounting policies that are most critical in the preparation of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements are those that are both important to the presentation of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and require significant or complex judgments and estimates on the part of management. The Company’s critical accounting policies are reviewed periodically with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 

In certain instances, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America allow for the selection of alternative accounting methods. The Company’s significant policies that involve the selection of alternative methods are accounting for shipping and handling costs and inventories. 

26 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

      §   Shipping and handling costs may be reported as either a component of cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company reports such costs, primarily related to warehousing and outbound freight, in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of Selling, general and administrative expenses. Accordingly, the Company’s gross profit margin is not comparable with the gross profit margin of those companies that include shipping and handling charges in cost of sales. If such costs had been included in cost of sales, gross profit margin as a percent of sales would have decreased by 730 bps, from 59.1% to 51.8%, in 2010 and decreased by 730 and 780 bps in 2009 and 2008, respectively, with no impact on reported earnings.    

      §   The Company accounts for inventories using both the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method (79% of inventories) and the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method (21% of inventories). There would have been no material impact on reported earnings for 2010, 2009 and 2008 had all inventories been accounted for under the FIFO method.    

The areas of accounting that involve significant or complex judgments and estimates are pensions and other postretirement benefits, stock options, asset impairments, uncertain tax positions, tax valuation allowances and legal and other contingencies. 

      §   In pension accounting, the most significant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate for U.S. defined benefit plans was 5.30%, 5.75% and 6.30% as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The discount rate for other U.S. postretirement plans was 5.30%, 5.75% and 5.80% as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Discount rates used for the U.S. defined benefit and other postretirement plans are based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high-quality bonds for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximate the estimated payouts of the U.S. plans. For the Company’s international plans, the discount rates are set by benchmarking against investment-grade corporate bonds rated AA. The assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets for U.S. plans was 8.0% as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. In determining the long-term rate of return, the Company considers the nature of the plans’ investments, an expectation for the plans’ investment strategies and the historical rate of return.    

Average annual rates of return for the U.S. plans for the most recent 1-year, 5-year, 10-year, 15-year and 25-year periods were 12%, 5%, 5%, 7%, and 8%, respectively. In addition, the current rate of return assumption for the U.S. plans is based upon a targeted asset allocation of approximately 40% in fixed income securities, 52% in equity securities and 8% in real estate and alternative investments. A 1% change in the assumed rate of return on plan assets of the U.S. pension plans would impact future Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by approximately $2. A 1% change in the discount rate for the U.S. pension plans would impact future Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by approximately $7. A third assumption is the long-term rate of compensation increase, a change in which would partially of fset the impact of a change in either the discount rate or the long-term rate of return. This rate was 4.0% as of December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s pension and other postretirement plans. 

      §   The assumption requiring the most judgment in accounting for other postretirement benefits is the medical cost trend rate. The Company reviews external data and its own historical trends for health care costs to determine the medical cost trend rate. The assumed rate of increase is 8.33% for 2011, declining to 5.00% by 2016 and remaining at 5.00% for the years thereafter. The effect of a 1% increase in the assumed long-term medical cost trend rate would reduce Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by $5.    

      §   The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, such as stock options and restricted stock, based on the fair value of those awards at the date of grant. The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton (Black-Scholes) option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock-option awards. The weighted-average estimated fair value of each stock option granted for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $11.00. The Black-Scholes model uses various assumptions to determine the fair value of options. These assumptions include the expected term of options, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield. While these assumptions do not require significant judgment, as the significant inputs are determined from historical experience or independent third-party sources, changes in these inputs could result in significant chang es in fair value. A one-year change in term would result in a change in fair value of approximately 7%. A one percent change in volatility would change fair value by approximately 5%.    

27 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

      §   The asset impairment analysis performed for goodwill and intangible assets requires several estimates, including future cash flows, growth rates and the selection of a discount rate. Since the estimated fair value of the Company’s intangible assets substantially exceeds the recorded book value, it is not reasonably likely that significant changes in these estimates would occur that would result in an impairment charge related to these assets.    

      §   The recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions involves consideration of the amounts and probabilities of various outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate settlement.    

      §   Tax valuation allowances are established to reduce tax assets such as tax loss carryforwards, to net realizable value. Factors considered in estimating net realizable value include historical results by tax jurisdiction, carryforward periods, income tax strategies and forecasted taxable income.    

      §   Legal and other contingency reserves are based on management’s assessment of the risk of potential loss, which includes consultation with outside legal counsel and advisors. Such assessments are reviewed each period and revised, based on current facts and circumstances, if necessary. While it is possible that the Company’s cash flows and results of operations in a particular quarter or year could be materially affected by the impact of such contingencies, it is the opinion of management that these matters will not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, ongoing results of operations or cash flows. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s contingencies.    

The Company generates revenue through the sale of well-known consumer products to trade customers under established trading terms. While the recognition of revenue and receivables requires the use of estimates, there is a short time frame (typically less than 60 days) between the shipment of product and cash receipt, thereby reducing the level of uncertainty in these estimates. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further description of the Company’s significant accounting policies. 

Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the SEC in its rules, regulations and releases. Such statements may relate, for example, to sales or unit volume growth, organic sales growth, profit or profit margin growth, earnings growth, financial goals, the impact of currency devaluations and exchange controls, in particular, in Venezuela, cost-reduction plans, tax rates, new product introductions or commercial investment levels, among other matters. These statements are made on the basis of the Company’s views and assumptions as of this time and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements. Moreover, the Company does not, nor does any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy a nd completeness of those statements. The Company cautions investors that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual events or results may differ materially from those statements. Actual events or results may differ materially because of factors that affect international businesses and global economic conditions, as well as matters specific to us and the markets we serve, including the uncertain economic environment in different countries and its effect on consumer spending habits, increased competition and evolving competitive practices, currency rate fluctuations, exchange controls, changes in foreign or domestic laws or regulations or their interpretation, political and fiscal developments, the availability and cost of raw and packaging materials, our ability to maintain or increase selling prices as needed, changes in the policies of retail trade customers and our ability to continue lowering costs. For information about these and oth er factors that could impact our business and cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, refer to “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. 

28 

Table of Contents    

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

  ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK