Item 1A.    Risk Factors.    

 In an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. Forward-looking statements are often identified by the words, “will,” “may,” “should,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “forecast,” “project,” “estimate,” “intend” and words of similar nature and generally include statements containing:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 You should view these statements with caution. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. They are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. All phases of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. Any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. Additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. The following discussion should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto. Outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2011 and beyond.  

 General economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our operating margins.  

 Our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. A weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. In addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels. Consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers and our ability to implement our pricing strategy. In addition to disruption in the credit markets, recent and continuing economic conditions have negatively affected business and consumer spending generally. If our commercial customers do not have access to capital, both our volumes and our ability to increase new business will be negatively impacted.  

 The waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected.  

 We encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. In North America, the industry consists primarily of two national waste management companies, regional companies and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources, including smaller companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management. We compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. These counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. Also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. In addition, competitors may reduce    

 13   
 their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts. When this happens, we may be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business.  

 If we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected.  

 Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. We have adopted a business strategy built on three key initiatives: know more about our customers and how to service them than anyone else; use conversion and processing technology to extract more value from the materials we manage; and continuously improve our operational efficiency. In the short-term, we intend to pursue these initiatives through efforts to:  

    •   Grow our markets by implementing customer-focused growth, through customer segmentation and through strategic acquisitions, while maintaining our pricing discipline and increasing the amount of recyclable materials we handle each year;   

    •   Grow our customer loyalty, in part through the use of enabling technologies;   

    •   Grow into new markets by investing in greener technologies; and   

    •   Pursue initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure.    

 There are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. Further, we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. If we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business plan successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all.  

 The seasonal nature of our business and “one-time” special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results.  

 Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we    

 14   
 operate also tend to increase during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes that most often impact our Southern Group, can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. While weather-related and other “one-time” occurrences can boost revenues through additional work, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. During 2010, our financial results included revenue generated as a result of clean-up efforts in connection with the oil spill along the Gulf Coast and the substantial flooding in Tennessee; however, these special projects have a limited time span.  

 Certain weather conditions, including severe weather storms, may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. The operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities.  

 For these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period.  

 Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations, that may result in significant liabilities.  

 There is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. Under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. Under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. This risk is of particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. Further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their indemnification obligations owed to us. Additionally, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and, under applicable law, we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. Any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 In the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. These include proceedings in which:  

    •   agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and   

    •   local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage.    

 We generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. If we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments.  

 Further, we often enter into contractual arrangements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. Compliance with these arrangements is inherently subject to subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. Costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant.   

 15   
 The waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures.  

 Stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the United States and Canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. A large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. Among other things, they may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. Future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. The costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial.  

 In order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. The permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations.  

 We also have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills. We establish accruals for these estimated costs, but we could underestimate such accruals. Environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, requiring our expenditures to materially exceed our current accruals.  

 Various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. Additionally, several state and local governments have enacted “flow control” regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. The United States Congress’ adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control or the adoption of legislation affecting interstate transportation of waste at the state level could adversely affect our operations. Courts’ interpretation of flow control legislation or the Supreme Court decisions also could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services.  

 The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could increase our costs to operate.  

 Efforts to curtail the emission of GHGs, to ameliorate the effect of climate change, continue to advance on the federal, regional, and state level. Our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a GHG. In the 111th Congress, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill that would regulate GHGs comprehensively. While the centerpiece of that bill would be a GHG emission allowance cap-and-trade system, neither landfills nor qualifying waste-to-energy plants would be compelled to hold allowances for their GHG emissions. Rather, they would be subject to certain further emission controls to be determined through administrative rule-making. Should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict.  

 Absent comprehensive federal legislation to control GHG emissions, the EPA is moving ahead administratively under its existing Clean Air Act authority. In 2010, the EPA published a Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule (“PSD tailoring rule”). The rule sets new    

 16   
 thresholds for GHG emissions that define when Clean Air Act permits are required under the PSD and Title V programs. The EPA’s legal authority to “tailor” statutory thresholds in this rule has been challenged, and the EPA intends to delay regulation of certain emissions pending further regulatory analysis. We cannot predict the final requirements of stationary source rules that might apply to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities as a result of this rulemaking and, accordingly, further developments in this area could have a material effect on our results of operations or cash flows.  

 Our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand.  

 We believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. The Waste Management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. Adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand.  

 Significant shortages in fuel supply or increases in fuel prices will increase our operating expenses.  

 The price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. We have seen average quarterly fuel prices increase by as much as 30% on a year-over-year basis and decrease by as much as 47% on a year-over-year basis within the last two years. We need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. Supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. Additionally, as fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. We have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers’ contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. Additionally, we are currently party to a pending suit that pertains to our fuel and environmental charge and generally alleges that such charges were not properly disclosed, were unfair, and were contrary to contract. See Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, the increased operating costs will decrease our operating margins.  

 Some of our customers, including governmental entities, have suffered financial difficulties affecting their credit risk, which could negatively impact our operating results.  

 We provide service to a number of governmental entities and municipalities, some of which have suffered significant financial difficulties due to the downturn in the U.S. economy and reduced tax revenue. Some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. Many non-governmental customers have also suffered serious financial difficulties, and the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates could negatively affect our operating results.  

 In addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors’ demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, we had $611 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to re-pricing on either a daily or a weekly basis through a remarketing process and $405 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to re-pricing within the next twelve months. If the weakness in the municipal debt market results in re-pricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we will incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows.   

 17   
 We have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities.  

 The amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. We believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. We face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. We also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. We use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. The inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. To the extent our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results.  

 In addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon WM financial guarantees. We currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. General economic factors may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. Additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. It is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. Other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due.  

 We may record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets.  

 In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. Events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. If we determine a development or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such facility or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. We also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. We may be required to incur charges against earnings if we determine that events such as those described cause impairments. Any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

 Our revenues will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices.  

 Our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. The majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard, known as OCC, and old newsprint, or ONP. The fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities can affect our operating income and cash flows negatively, as we experienced in 2008, or positively, as we experienced in 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the monthly market prices for OCC and ONP fell by 79% and 72%, respectively, from their high points within the year. Additionally, the decline in market prices for commodities resulted in a year-over-year decrease in revenue of $447 million in 2009. Increases in the prices of recycling commodities in 2010 resulted in an increase in revenues of $423 million as compared with 2009. Market prices for recyclable commodities have increased significantly from the near-historic lows experienced in late 2008 and early 2009. For the twelve months of 2010, overall commodity    

 18   
 prices have increased approximately 57% as compared with 2009. Despite the recent positive trend in commodity prices, these prices may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. Additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers. Therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. In other circumstances, the rebates may be subject to a floor, such that as market prices decrease, any expected profit margins on materials subject to the rebate floor are eliminated.  

 There are also significant price fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power production plant operations that can significantly impact our revenue from yield provided by such businesses. In most of the markets in which we operate, electricity prices correlate with natural gas prices. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we experienced declines in revenue from yield at our waste-to-energy facilities of $76 million, due to the expiration of certain above-market contracts, resulting in greater exposure to market pricing. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 47%, 46% and 24%, respectively, of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates. Our waste-to-energy facilities’ exposure to market price volatility will continue to increase as additional long-term contracts expire. We enter into “receive fixed, pay variable” electricity swaps to mitigate the variability in our revenues and cash flows caused by fluctuations in the market prices for electricity. These swaps are generally short-term in nature. Additionally, revenues from our independent power production plants can be affected by price fluctuations. If we are unable to successfully negotiate long-term contracts, or if market prices are at lower levels for sustained periods, our revenues could be adversely affected.  

 The development and acceptance of alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities could reduce our ability to operate at full capacity and cause our revenues and operating results to decline.  

 Our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. In addition, several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. Where such organic waste is not banned from the landfill or waste-to-energy facility, large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. Zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of North America’s largest companies. Although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at full capacity, as well as affecting the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal and waste-to-energy services. Our landfills and our waste-to-energy facilities currently provide and have historically provided our highest operating margins. If we are not successful in expanding our service offerings and growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills or waste-to-energy facilities and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results will decline. Additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is reasonably possible that our revenues and our operating margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives.  

 Our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions.  

 Labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. Certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. Additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. Any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   

 19   
 We could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans.  

 We have participated in and contributed to various “multiemployer” pension plans administered by employer and union trustees. In renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that participate in these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in various plans. When we withdraw from plans, we can incur withdrawal liabilities for those plans that have underfunded pension liabilities. Various factors affect our liabilities for a plan’s underfunded status, including the numbers of retirees and active workers in the plan, the ongoing solvency of participating employers, the investment returns obtained on plan assets, and the ratio of our historical participation in such plan to all employers’ historical participation. We reflect any withdrawal liability as an operating expense in our statement of operations and as a liability on our balance sheet.  

 We have previously withdrawn several employee bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans, and we recognized related expenses of $26 million in 2010, $9 million in 2009 and $39 million in 2008. We are still negotiating and litigating final resolutions of our withdrawal liability for these previous withdrawals, which could be materially higher than the charges we have recognized.  

 Currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements.  

 We are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. The timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity.  

 We are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected.  

 We may experience problems with either the operation of our current information technology systems or the development and deployment of new information technology systems that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. Inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. Additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.  

 If we are not able to develop and protect intellectual property, or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer.  

 Our existing and proposed service offerings to customers may require that we develop or license, and protect, new technologies. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. Further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. Additionally, a competitor may develop or obtain exclusive rights to a “breakthrough technology” that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management. If we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer.  

 We may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations.  

 Our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods.   

 20   
 Our capital requirements could increase our expenses or cause us to change our growth and development plans.  

 Recent economic conditions have reduced our cash flows from operations and could do so in the future. If impacts on our cash flows from operations are significant, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth activity, dividend declarations or share repurchases. We may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, and there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable. We also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. Further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness depends on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. The credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected.  

 Additionally, we have $1.8 billion of debt as of December 31, 2010 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next twelve months because of the combined impact of our tax-exempt bonds, our interest rate swap agreements and borrowings outstanding under our Canadian Credit Facility. Therefore, increases in interest rates can increase our interest expenses which also would lower our net income and decrease our cash flow.  

 We may use our three-year, $2.0 billion revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. As of December 31, 2010, we had $1,138 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $862 million. In the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. Additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. Without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate.  

  Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.    

 None.  

  Item 2.    Properties.