Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    

 This section includes a discussion of our results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2010. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Overview  

 Our 2010 results of operations reflect our discipline in pricing, our ability to control costs in our collection and disposal operations and our continued investment in our strategic initiatives, which will enable us to grow into new markets, provide expanded service offerings and improve our information technology systems. Our results also reflect an improvement in the general economic environment. Highlights of our financial results for 2010 include:  

    •   Revenues of $12.5 billion compared with $11.8 billion in 2009, an increase of $724 million, or 6.1%. This increase in revenues is primarily attributable to:    

    •   Increases from recyclable commodity prices of $423 million; increases from our fuel surcharge program of $69 million; and increases from foreign currency translation of $66 million;   

    •   Increases associated with acquired businesses of $240 million; and   

    •   Internal revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal business of 2.3% in the current period, which increased revenue by $239 million;    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The comparability of our 2010 results with 2009 has been affected by certain items management believes are not representative or indicative of our performance. Our 2010 results were affected by the following:  

    •   The recognition of pre-tax charges aggregating $55 million related to remediation and closure costs at five closed sites, which had a negative impact of $0.07 on our diluted earnings per share;   

    •   The recognition of net tax charges of $32 million due to refinements in estimates of our deferred state income taxes and the finalization of our 2009 tax returns, partially offset by favorable tax audit settlements, all of which, combined, had a negative impact of $0.07 on our diluted earnings per share;     

 26   
    •   The recognition of a net favorable pre-tax benefit of $46 million for litigation and associated costs, which had a favorable impact of $0.06 on our diluted earnings per share; and   

    •   The recognition of net pre-tax charges of $26 million as a result of the withdrawal of certain of our union bargaining units from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan, which had a negative impact of $0.03 on our diluted earnings per share.    

 Our 2009 results were affected by the following:  

    •   The recognition of a tax benefit of $130 million due principally to favorable adjustments from the carry-back of a capital loss, the recognition of state net operating losses and tax credits, the finalization of our 2008 tax returns, the impact of tax audit settlements and the revaluation of deferred taxes due to Canadian tax rate reductions. These items had a combined favorable impact of $0.26 on our diluted earnings per share;   

    •   The recognition of impairment charges totaling $83 million due primarily to the abandonment of revenue management software and a change in expectations for the future operations of an inactive landfill in California. These items had a negative impact of $0.10 on our diluted earnings per share; and   

    •   The recognition of pre-tax charges of $50 million related to our 2009 restructuring, primarily related to severance and benefit costs. These restructuring charges reduced diluted earnings per share for the year by $0.06.    

 We are pleased about the lower rate of decline in internal revenue growth from volumes that we experienced during 2010. On the pricing front, our fourth quarter 2010 results were the strongest of the year. For both the fourth quarter and the full year of 2010, we outpaced our long-term pricing objective of achieving price increases in the range of 50 to 100 basis points above the consumer price index, or CPI. In 2011, we will remain committed to our pricing discipline. Based on an anticipated CPI run-rate of 1.0%, we expect our overall revenue growth from yield to be approximately 2.0%. Additionally, we expect our revenue growth from volumes to be flat to slightly positive. However, we are mindful of trends toward waste reduction at the source, diversion from landfills and customers seeking alternative methods of disposal. We will continue to implement measures that we believe will grow our business, improve our current operations performance and enhance and expand our services.  

 Free Cash Flow  

 As is our practice, we are presenting free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity, in our disclosures because we use this measure in the evaluation and management of our business. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures, plus proceeds from divestitures of businesses (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets. We believe it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. Free cash flow is not intended to replace “Net cash provided by operating activities,” which is the most comparable U.S. GAAP measure. However, we believe free cash flow gives investors useful insight into how we view our liquidity. Nonetheless, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt service requirements.  

 Our calculation of free cash flow and reconciliation to “Net cash provided by operating activities” is shown in the table below (in millions), and may not be the same as similarly titled measures presented by other companies:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 27   
 Our free cash flow was consistent in both years, however our cash provided by operating activities decreased $87 million and our capital expenditures decreased $75 million. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to net unfavorable changes in working capital, increased interest payments and higher income tax payments. These decreases in operating cash flow were partially offset by a cash benefit of $77 million resulting from a litigation settlement that occurred in April 2010. Payments made in 2009 related to severance and benefits costs associated with our 2009 restructuring also affected the comparability of our operating cash flow for the periods presented.  

 The decrease in capital expenditures in 2010 compared with 2009 can generally be attributed to timing of cash payments for the previous years’ fourth quarter capital expenditures. We generally use a significant portion of our free cash flow on capital expenditures in the fourth quarter of each year. A less significant portion of our fourth quarter 2009 capital expenditures were paid for in cash in 2010, as compared with the portion of our fourth quarter 2008 capital expenditures that were paid for in cash in 2009.  

 Our ability to generate over $1.2 billion in free cash flow in 2010 enabled us to return $1.1 billion in cash to stockholders during the year through the payment of $604 million in dividends and the repurchase of $501 million of our common stock.  

 Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial Information  

 Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities — In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued revised authoritative guidance associated with the consolidation of variable interest entities. The new guidance primarily uses a qualitative approach for determining whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, and is, therefore, required to consolidate the entity. This new guidance generally defines the primary beneficiary as the entity that has (i) the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity that can most significantly impact the entity’s performance; and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses and the right to receive benefits from the variable interest entity that could be significant from the perspective of the entity. The new guidance also requires that we continually reassess whether we are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity rather than conducting a reassessment only upon the occurrence of specific events.  

 As a result of our implementation of this guidance, effective January 1, 2010, we deconsolidated certain capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation trusts because we share power over significant activities of these trusts with others. Our financial interests in these entities are discussed in Note 20 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. The deconsolidation of these trusts has not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or cash flows during the periods presented.  

 Business Combinations — In December 2007, the FASB issued revisions to the authoritative guidance associated with business combinations. This guidance clarified and revised the principles for how an acquirer recognizes and measures identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. This guidance also addressed the recognition and measurement of goodwill acquired in business combinations and expanded disclosure requirements related to business combinations. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the FASB’s revised guidance associated with business combinations. The portions of this guidance that relate to business combinations completed before January 1, 2009 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Further, business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, 2009, which are discussed in Note 19 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, have not been material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, to the extent that future business combinations are material, our adoption of the FASB’s revised authoritative guidance associated with business combinations may significantly impact our accounting and reporting for future acquisitions, principally as a result of (i) expanded requirements to value acquired assets, liabilities and contingencies at their fair values when such amounts can be determined and (ii) the requirement that acquisition-related transaction and restructuring costs be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized as a part of the cost of the acquisition.  

 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements — In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that established accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries and for the de-consolidation of a subsidiary. The guidance also established that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated    

 28   
 financial statements. We adopted this guidance on January 1, 2009. The presentation and disclosure requirements of this guidance, which must be applied retrospectively for all periods presented, resulted in reclassifications to our prior period consolidated financial information and the remeasurement of our 2008 effective tax rate, which is discussed in Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Fair Value Measurements — In September 2006, the FASB issued authoritative guidance associated with fair value measurements. This guidance defined fair value, established a framework for measuring fair value, and expanded disclosures about fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB delayed the effective date of the guidance for all non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except those that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Accordingly, we adopted this guidance for assets and liabilities recognized at fair value on a recurring basis effective January 1, 2008 and adopted the guidance for non-financial assets and liabilities measured on a non-recurring basis effective January 1, 2009. The application of the fair value framework did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 Refer to Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the impact of the implementation of new accounting pronouncements on our results of operations and financial position.  

 Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions  

 In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methods. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that present the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments, deferred income taxes and reserves associated with our insured and self-insured claims. Each of these items is discussed in additional detail below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements.  

 Landfills  

 Accounting for landfills requires that significant estimates and assumptions be made regarding (i) the cost to construct and develop each landfill asset; (ii) the estimated fair value of capping, closure and post-closure asset retirement obligations, which must consider both the expected cost and timing of these activities; (iii) the determination of each landfill’s remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and (iv) the airspace associated with each capping event.  

 Landfill Costs — We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs.  

 Capping Costs — We estimate the cost for each capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate landfill capping costs to specific capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each capping event is then quantified and the capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately    

 29   
 through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

 Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post-closure maintenance and monitoring. The estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also consider when the costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post-closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

 Remaining Permitted Airspace — Our engineers, in consultation with third-party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is then used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography.  

 Expansion Airspace — We include currently unpermitted expansion airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria:  

    •   Personnel are actively working on the expansion of an existing landfill, including efforts to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals;   

    •   It is likely that the approvals will be received within the normal application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill is located;   

    •   We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;   

    •   There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could impair the success of such expansion;   

    •   Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and   

    •   Airspace and related costs, including additional closure and post-closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design.    

 For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if these criteria are no longer met, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill-specific review process that includes approval of our Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 33 landfill sites with expansions at December 31, 2010, 14 landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Eight of these landfills required approval by our Chief Financial Officer because of community or political opposition that could impede the expansion process. The remaining six landfills required approval primarily due to the permit application processes not meeting the one- or five-year requirements.  

 When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement cost related to capping, and closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill.   

 30   
 Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined in cubic yards, an airspace utilization factor, or AUF, is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and is then adjusted to account for settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site-specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate, and operating practices. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi- level review by our engineering group, and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements.  

 After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed as waste is received and deposited at the landfill by dividing the costs by the corresponding number of tons. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each capping event, for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change.  

 It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of capping, closure and post-closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts, could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates, or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if it is determined that the expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of the landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment or incur significantly higher amortization expense. If it is determined that the likelihood of receiving an expansion permit has become remote, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately.  

 Environmental Remediation Liabilities  

 We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by our operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party (“PRP”) investigations, settlements, and certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials, external contractor costs and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on a number of estimates and assumptions.  

 Where it is probable that a liability has been incurred, we estimate costs required to remediate sites based on site-specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the cost for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third-party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:  

    •   Management’s judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties’ sites;   

    •   Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation;   

    •   The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and   

    •   The typical allocation of costs among PRPs unless the actual allocation has been determined.     

 31   
 Asset Impairments  

 Our long-lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. We monitor the carrying value of our long-lived assets for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or changes in circumstances are referred to as impairment indicators. If an impairment indicator occurs, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group; (ii) actual third-party valuations; and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market for similar assets. If the fair value of an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs and is included in the “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment and projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized, which could impact our ability to accurately assess whether an asset has been impaired.  

 There are other considerations for impairments of landfills and goodwill, as described below.  

 Landfills — Certain impairment indicators require significant judgment and understanding of the waste industry when applied to landfill development or expansion projects. For example, a regulator may initially deny a landfill expansion permit application though the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace. Therefore, certain events could occur in the ordinary course of business and not necessarily be considered indicators of impairment of our landfill assets due to the unique nature of the waste industry.  

 Goodwill — At least annually, we assess our goodwill for impairment. We assess whether an impairment exists by comparing the fair value of each operating segment to its carrying value, including goodwill. We use a combination of two valuation methods, a market approach and an income approach, to estimate the fair value of our operating segments. Fair value computed by these two methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that these two methods provide a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of our operating segments.  

 The market approach estimates fair value by measuring the aggregate market value of publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics of our business as a multiple of their reported cash flows. We then apply that multiple to our operating segments’ cash flows to estimate their fair values. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using valuation inputs from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our operating segments.  

 The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows of our operating segments. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted-average cost of capital that considers factors such as the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon our operating segments’ expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business.  

 Additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying value of goodwill has been impaired. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to goodwill impairment considerations made during the reported periods.   

 32   
 Deferred Income Taxes  

 Deferred income taxes are based on the difference between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred income tax provision represents the change during the reporting period in the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, net of the effect of acquisitions and dispositions. Deferred tax assets include tax loss and credit carry-forwards and are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We establish reserves for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions may be challenged and potentially disallowed. When facts and circumstances change, we adjust these reserves through our provision for income taxes.  

 Insured and Self-Insured Claims  

 We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation insurance programs. Our liabilities associated with the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, are based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from our assumptions used. Estimated recoveries associated with our insured claims are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable.  

 Results of Operations  

 Operating Revenues  

 We manage and evaluate our principal operations through five Groups. Our four geographic Groups, comprised of our Eastern, Midwest, Southern and Western Groups, provide collection, transfer, disposal (in both solid waste and hazardous waste landfills) and recycling services. Our fifth Group is the Wheelabrator Group, which provides waste-to-energy services and manages waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production plants. These five Groups are our reportable segments. We also provide additional services that are not managed through our five Groups, including recycling brokerage services, electronic recycling services, in-plant services, landfill gas-to-energy services and the impacts of investments that we are making in expanded service offerings, such as portable self-storage and fluorescent lamp recycling. These operations are presented as “Other” in the table below. Shown below (in millions) is the contribution to revenues during each year provided by our five Groups and our Other waste services:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our operating revenues generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, recycling and waste-to-energy services and from sales of commodities by our recycling, waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy operations. Revenues from our collection operations are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the MRF or disposal facility and our disposal costs. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue generally consists of tipping fees and the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The fees we charge for our collection, disposal, transfer and recycling services    

 33   
 generally include fuel surcharges, which are indexed to current market costs for fuel. Our waste-to-energy revenues, which are generated by our Wheelabrator Group, are based on the type and weight or volume of waste received at our waste-to-energy facilities and IPPs and amounts charged for the sale of energy and steam. Our “Other” revenues include our landfill gas-to-energy operations, Port-O-Let® services, portable self-storage and fluorescent lamp recycling. Intercompany revenues between our operations have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The mix of operating revenues from our major lines of business is reflected in the table below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following table provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues (dollars in millions) along with an explanation of the significant components of the current period changes:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Calculated by dividing the amount of current year increase or decrease by the prior year’s total company revenue ($11,791 million and $13,388 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively) adjusted to exclude the impacts of current year divestitures ($2 million and $37 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively).  

  (b)    The amounts reported herein represent the changes in our revenue attributable to average yield for the total Company. We also analyze the changes in average yield in terms of related-business revenues in order to differentiate the changes in yield attributable to our pricing strategies from the changes that are caused by market-driven price changes in commodities. The following table summarizes changes in revenues from average yield on a related-business basis:   

 34   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (i)    Calculated by dividing the increase or decrease for the current year by the prior-year’s related-business revenue, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year ($2 million and $37 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively). The table below summarizes the related-business revenues for each year, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures:   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (ii)    Average revenue growth for yield for “Collection and disposal” excludes all electricity-related revenues generated by our Wheelabrator Group, which are reported as “Electricity” revenues.   

 Our revenues increased $724 million, or 6.1%, and decreased $1,597 million, or 11.9% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The year-over-year change in revenues for both periods has been driven by (i) market factors, including fluctuations in recyclable commodity prices that favorably impacted revenue growth in 2010 and negatively affected revenue growth in 2009; volatility in diesel prices that affects the revenues provided by our fuel surcharge program, which favorably contributed to our revenues in 2010 and negatively affected our revenues in 2009, and foreign currency translation, which favorably affected revenues from our Canadian operations in 2010 but negatively impacted our revenues in 2009; (ii) revenue growth from average yield on our collection and disposal operations in both periods; and (iii) acquisitions. Further affecting revenue changes were revenue declines due to lower volumes that generally resulted from the continued weakness of the overall economic environment, increased pricing, competition and recent trends of waste reduction and diversion by consumers.  

 The following provides further details associated with our period-to-period change in revenues.  

 Average yield  

 Collection and disposal average yield — This measure reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer, landfill and waste-to-energy disposal operations, exclusive of volume changes.    

 35   
 Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield includes not only base rate changes and environmental and service fee increases, but also (i) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to both the types of services provided and the geographic locations where our services are provided; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business; and (iii) price decreases to retain customers.  

 In both 2010 and 2009, our revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield demonstrates our commitment to our pricing strategies despite the current economic environment. This increase in revenue from yield was primarily driven by our collection operations, which experienced yield growth in all lines of business and in every geographic operating Group. We have found that increasing our yield in today’s market is a challenge given the reduced volume levels resulting from the economic slowdown. However, revenue growth from yield on base business and a focus on controlling variable costs have provided margin improvements in our collection line of business. Additionally, a significant portion of our collection revenues is generated under long-term agreements with municipalities or similar local or regional authorities. These agreements generally tie pricing adjustments to inflation indices, which have been low in 2010 as compared with 2009 and 2008. Despite this headwind, we continue to meet our pricing objective of achieving price increases in the range of 50 to 100 basis points above CPI. We are committed to maintaining pricing discipline in order to improve yield on our base business.  

 Revenues from our environmental fee, which are included in average yield on collection and disposal, increased by $33 million and $37 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Environmental fee revenues totaled $251 million in 2010 as compared with $218 million in 2009 and $181 million in 2008.  

 Recycling commodities — Increases in the prices of the recycling commodities we process resulted in an increase in revenues of $423 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. Market prices for recyclable commodities have increased significantly from the near-historic lows experienced in late 2008 and early 2009. For the twelve months of 2010, overall commodity prices have increased approximately 57% as compared with 2009.  

 In 2009, lower recycling commodity prices were the principal driver of our revenue decline of $447 million. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we saw a rapid decline in commodity prices from the record-high prices we had been experiencing prior to the decline due to a significant decrease in the demand for commodities both domestically and internationally. Commodity demand and prices in the first nine months of 2009 remained well below the demand and prices in the comparable prior-year period.  

 Electricity — The changes in revenue from yield provided by our waste-to-energy business are largely due to fluctuations in rates we can receive for electricity under our power purchase contracts and in merchant transactions. In most of the markets in which we operate, electricity prices correlate with natural gas prices. We experienced declines in revenue from yield at our waste-to-energy facilities of $7 million and $76 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These declines are due to the expiration of certain above-market contracts, resulting in greater exposure to market pricing. In 2010, approximately 47% of the waste-to-energy generation portfolio was subject to market price movements, compared with 46% in 2009 and 24% in 2008. Our waste-to-energy facilities’ exposure to market price volatility will continue to increase as additional long-term contracts expire; however, we are beginning to see an improvement in market pricing. In addition, we have increased our hedging activities to better manage this risk.  

 Fuel surcharges and mandated fees — Revenue predominantly generated by our fuel surcharge program increased by $69 million and decreased by $328 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The fluctuation is directly attributed to the fluctuation in the national average prices of diesel fuel that we use for our fuel surcharge program. The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to the pass-through to customers of fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal governmental agencies at our landfills and transfer stations. These mandated fees have not had a significant impact on the comparability of revenues for the periods included in the table above.  

 Volume — Our revenue decline due to volume was $304 million, or 2.6%, for the year ended December 31, 2010. This is a notable improvement in the rate of revenue decline from the prior-year period when revenue decline due to volume was $1,078 million, or 8.1%. Volume declines are generally attributable to economic conditions, increased pricing, competition and recent trends of waste reduction and diversion by consumers.   

 36   
 In 2010, our collection business accounted for $254 million of the total volume-related revenue decline. We have experienced commercial and residential collection volume declines that we attribute to the overall weakness in the economy, as well as the effects of pricing, competition and diversion of waste by consumers. Our industrial collection operations continued to be affected by the current economic environment due to the construction slowdown across the United States. The overall volume decline in the collection line of business was offset in part by an increase in volumes of $99 million associated with oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast. Lower third-party volumes in our transfer station operations also caused revenue declines in the current-year period, and can generally be attributed to economic conditions and the effects of pricing and competition. However, in 2010, our landfill revenues increased due to higher third-party volumes. This increase was principally due to higher special waste volumes in our Midwest and Southern geographic Groups, which were driven in part by our continued focus on our customers and better meeting their needs.  

 We are pleased with the lessening rate of revenue decline due to lower volumes. However, (i) the continued weakness of the overall economic environment; (ii) recent trends of waste reduction and diversion by consumers; and (iii) pricing and competition are presenting challenges to maintaining and growing volumes.  

 In 2009, our collection business accounted for $622 million of the total volume decline. Our industrial collection operations experienced the most significant revenue declines due to lower volumes, primarily as a result of the continued slowdown in both residential and commercial construction activities across the United States. We also experienced volume declines in our commercial and residential collection lines of businesses in 2009. We attributed these volume declines to the economy, although at a lesser rate than our industrial line of business since they are somewhat recession resistant, as well as to pricing and competition.  

 In 2009, we also experienced a 16% decline in third-party revenue due to volume at our landfills. This decrease was most significant in our more economically sensitive special waste and construction and demolition waste streams, although municipal solid waste streams at our landfills also decreased. Lower third-party volumes in our transfer station operations also caused revenue declines and can generally be attributed to economic conditions and the effects of pricing and competition. Lower volumes in our recycling operations caused declines in revenues of $74 million in 2009. These decreases were attributable to the drastic decline in the domestic and international demand for recyclables in late 2008.  

 Acquisitions and divestitures — Revenues increased $240 million and $97 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, due to acquisitions, principally in (i) the collection and recycling lines of business in both periods, as well as our waste-to-energy line of business in 2010 and (ii) our “Other” businesses, demonstrating our current focus on identifying strategic growth opportunities in new, complementary lines of business. Divestitures accounted for decreased revenues of $2 million and $37 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

 Operating Expenses  

 Our operating expenses include (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs discussed below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are affected by variables such as volumes, distance and fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include interest accretion on landfill liabilities, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs and other landfill site costs; (ix) risk management costs, which include workers’ compensation and insurance and claim costs; and (x) other operating costs, which include, among other costs, equipment and facility rent and property taxes.   

 37   
 Our operating expenses increased $583 million, or 8.1%, when comparing 2010 with 2009 and decreased by $1,225 million, or 14.5%, when comparing 2009 with 2008. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 62.5% in 2010, 61.4% in 2009 and 63.2% in 2008. The changes in our operating expenses during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 can largely be attributed to the following:  

 Changes in market prices for recyclable commodities — Overall, market prices for recyclable commodities were approximately 57% higher on average during 2010 than in 2009. The year-over-year increase is the result of the recovery in recyclable commodity prices from the near-historic lows reached in late 2008 and early 2009. This increase in market prices was the driver of the current year increase in cost of goods sold, primarily customer rebates, and has also resulted in increased revenues and earnings this year. When comparing 2009 with 2008, market prices for recyclable commodities had the opposite effect on our results as they declined approximately 39%.  

 Acquisitions and growth initiatives — In both 2010 and 2009, we experienced cost increases attributable to recently acquired businesses and our various growth and business development initiatives. These cost increases have affected each of the operating cost categories identified in the table below.  

 Fuel price changes — Higher market prices for fuel caused increases in both our direct fuel costs and our subcontractor costs for the year ended December 31, 2010, while lower market prices caused decreases in these costs for the year ended December 31, 2009. On average, diesel fuel prices increased 21%, to $2.99 per gallon for 2010 from $2.46 per gallon for 2009; while they decreased in 2009 by 35%, from $3.81 per gallon in 2008.  

 Canadian exchange rates — When comparing the average exchange rate for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Canadian exchange rate strengthened by 10%, which increased our expenses in all operating cost categories. The strengthening of the Canadian dollar increased our total operating expenses by $52 million for 2010 as compared with 2009. When comparing 2009 with 2008, the Canadian exchange rate weakened by 7% and decreased our total operating expenses by $40 million.  

 Volume declines and divestitures — Throughout 2010 and 2009, we experienced volume declines as a result of the continued weakness of the overall economic environment, pricing, competition and recent trends of waste reduction and diversion by consumers. Note that the revenue decline due to lower volume moderated in 2010 as compared with the volume decline in 2009, particularly in the second half of the year. During 2009 we also experienced volume declines as a result of divestitures. We continue to manage our fixed costs and reduce our variable costs as we experience volume declines, and have achieved significant cost savings as a result. These cost decreases have benefited each of the operating cost categories identified in the table below.  

 The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 38   
 The period-to-period changes for each category of operating expenses are discussed below.  

 Labor and related benefits — Our 2010 expenses increased as a result of (i) higher salaries and wages due to merit increases that were effective in July 2009 for hourly employees and in April 2010 for both salaried and hourly employees; (ii) additional expenses incurred for acquisitions and growth opportunities; and (iii) the strengthening of the Canadian dollar. These cost increases were offset, in part, by cost savings that have been achieved as volumes declined.  

 When comparing 2009 with 2008, the cost declines were generally a result of (i) headcount and overtime reductions related to volume declines; (ii) effects of foreign currency translation; (iii) a benefit from the restructuring we initiated in January of 2009, although most of these savings were reflected in our selling, general and administrative expenses; and (iv) cost savings provided by our operational improvement initiatives. These cost savings were offset, in part, by higher hourly wages due to merit increases and increased bonus expense as our performance against targets established by our incentive plans was stronger than it had been in 2008.  

 The comparability of our labor and related benefits costs for the periods presented has also been affected by costs incurred primarily associated with the withdrawal of certain bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans. These costs increased 2010 expense by $26 million, 2009 expense by $9 million and 2008 expense by $42 million.  

 Transfer and disposal costs — During 2009 the cost decreases as compared with 2008 were a result of volume declines and our continued focus on reducing disposal costs associated with our third-party disposal volumes by improving internalization. This decrease was also partially due to foreign currency translation.  

 Maintenance and repairs — Comparing 2009 with 2008, these costs declined as a result of volume declines and various fleet initiatives that favorably affected our maintenance, parts and supplies costs. These decreases were offset partially by cost increases due to differences in the timing and scope of planned maintenance projects at our waste-to-energy and landfill gas-to-energy facilities.  

 Subcontractor costs — The 2010 increase in subcontractor costs is largely the result of oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast and is also attributable to higher diesel fuel prices. We incurred $54 million in subcontractor costs related to oil spill clean-up activities this year. When comparing 2009 with 2008, the cost decreases are a result of volume declines, a significant decrease in diesel fuel prices and the effects of foreign currency translation.  

 Cost of goods sold — The cost changes during the years presented are principally due to changes in the recycling commodity rebates we pay to our customers as a result of changes in market prices for recyclable commodities.  

 Fuel — The cost changes for 2010 and 2009 are a result of changes in market prices for diesel fuel and volume declines.  

 Disposal and franchise fees and taxes — These cost decreases in 2009 as compared with 2008 are principally a result of volume declines.  

 Landfill operating costs — Increases in these costs in the current year were due, in part, to the recognition of additional estimated expense associated with environmental remediation liabilities of $50 million at four closed sites during 2010.  

 The changes in this category for the years presented were also significantly impacted by the changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets. As a result of changes in U.S. Treasury rates, we recognized $2 million of unfavorable adjustments during 2010, compared with $35 million of favorable adjustments during 2009 and $33 million of unfavorable adjustments during 2008. Over the course of 2010, the discount rate we use decreased slightly from 3.75% to 3.50%, although it reached as low as 2.50% in September. During 2009, the rate increased from 2.25% to 3.75% and during 2008, the rate declined from 4.00% to 2.25%.   

 39   
 Risk management — The slight year-over-year decrease in 2010 and the consistent cost levels in 2009 and 2008 reflect the success we have had over the last several years in managing these costs, which can be credited primarily to our continued focus on safety and reduced accident and injury rates.  

 Other — The comparison of these costs has been significantly affected by the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Selling, General and Administrative  

 Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor and related benefit costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity-based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees; and (iv) other selling, general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility-related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our “Other” selling, general and administrative expenses.  

 Our selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $97 million, or 7.1%, when comparing 2010 with 2009 and decreased $113 million, or 7.7%, when comparing 2009 with 2008. The current year increase is largely due to (i) increased costs of $52 million during 2010, incurred to support our strategic plan to grow into new markets and provide expanded service offerings and (ii) increased costs of $23 million during 2010, resulting from improvements we are making to our information technology systems. When comparing 2009 with 2008, the decrease was due in part to (i) the realization of benefits associated with our January 2009 restructuring and (ii) increased efforts to reduce controllable spending. Our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 11.7% in 2010, 11.6% in 2009 and 11.0% in 2008.  

 The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative costs for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Labor and related benefits — In 2010, our labor and related benefits costs increased due primarily to (i) higher salaries and hourly wages due to merit increases; (ii) higher compensation costs due to an increase in headcount driven by our growth initiatives; (iii) additional bonus expense in 2010 because our performance against targets established by our annual incentive plans was stronger in 2010 compared with 2009; (iv) increased contract labor costs as a result of our current focus on optimizing our information technology systems; (v) increased severance costs; and (vi) higher non-cash compensation costs incurred for equity awards granted under our long-term incentive plans. During the second quarter of 2009, we reversed all compensation costs previously recognized for our 2008 performance share units based on a determination that it was no longer probable that the targets established for that award would be met. Additionally, stock option equity awards granted during the first quarter of 2010 provide for continued vesting for three years following an employee’s retirement, and because retirement-eligible employees are not required to provide any future service to vest in these awards, we recognized all of the compensation expense associated with their awards immediately. We did not incur similar charges in prior years because this retirement provision was not included in any of the equity awards that were granted in 2009 or in 2008.   

 40   
 In 2009, our labor and related benefits costs decreased from 2008 because we realized benefits associated with our January 2009 restructuring. Our labor and related benefits expenses in 2009 were also affected by a significant decrease in non-cash compensation costs associated with the equity-based compensation provided for by our long-term incentive plans as a result of (i) a decline in the grant-date fair value of our equity awards; (ii) lower performance against established targets for certain awards than in the prior year; and (iii) the reversal of all compensation costs previously recognized for our 2008 performance share units. This decrease in non-cash compensation costs was offset, in part, by higher costs associated with our salary deferral plan, the costs of which are directly affected by equity-market conditions. Additionally, contract labor costs incurred for various Corporate support functions were lower during 2009 than in 2008.  

 Professional fees — In 2010, our professional fees increased due to consulting fees, driven primarily by improvements we are making to our information technology systems and our continued strategic focus to grow into new markets and provide expanded service offerings. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in legal fees in 2010.  

 Provision for bad debts — Our provision for bad debts was higher in 2009 and in 2008 as compared with 2010 as a result of the Company’s assessment of the weak economic environment in those years and the resulting impacts on our collection risk. However, in the latter part of 2009 and during 2010 our collection risk moderated, thus resulting in a lower provision in 2010.  

 Other — During 2010, we experienced increases in our (i) litigation reserves, (ii) marketing and advertising costs, due in part to our strategic plan to grow into new markets and provide expanded service offerings, and (iii) computer costs, due in part to improvements we are making to our information technology systems.  

 In 2009, our focus on reducing controllable spending resulted in decreases in our advertising, meetings, seminars, and travel and entertainment costs. These lower costs were partially due to the January 2009 restructuring. This decline was offset partially by unfavorable litigation settlements in 2009.  

 Depreciation and Amortization  

 Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded for capital leases, on a straight-line basis from three to 50 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction and asset retirement costs arising from closure and post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the total estimated remaining capacity of a site, which includes both permitted capacity and expansion capacity that meets our Company-specific criteria for amortization purposes; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from capping obligations on a units-of-consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each capping event; and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, either using a 150% declining balance approach or a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are generally from two to ten years depending on the type of asset.  

 The following table summarizes the components of our depreciation and amortization costs for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The increase in amortization expense of landfill airspace in 2010 is largely due to adjustments to the amortization rates at various landfill sites. These adjustments were principally attributable to increases in cost estimates. The decrease in amortization of landfill airspace expense in 2009 is largely due to volume declines as a    

 41   
 result of (i) the slowdown in the economy; (ii) our pricing strategy and competition, both of which significantly reduced our collection volumes; and (iii) the re-direction of waste to third-party disposal facilities in certain regions due to either the closure of our own landfills or the current capacity constraints of landfills where we are seeking an expansion permit. The comparability of our amortization of landfill airspace for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 has also been affected by adjustments recorded in each year for changes in estimates related to our capping, closure and post-closure obligations. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, landfill amortization expense was reduced by $13 million, $14 million and $3 million, respectively, for the effects of these changes in estimates. In each year, the majority of the reduced expense resulting from the revised estimates was associated with capping changes that were generally the result of (i) concerted efforts to improve the operating efficiencies of our landfills and volume declines, both of which have allowed us to delay spending for capping activities; (ii) effectively managing the cost of capping material and construction; or (iii) landfill expansions that resulted in reduced or deferred capping costs.  

 The increase in amortization expense of intangible assets in 2010 is due to our focus on the growth and development of our business through acquisitions and other investments. The current year increases are primarily related to the amortization of definite-lived operating permits acquired by our healthcare solutions operations, customer lists acquired by our Southern and Midwest Groups and gas rights acquired by our renewable energy operations.  

 Restructuring  

 In January 2009, we took steps to further streamline our organization by (i) consolidating our Market Areas; (ii) integrating the management of our recycling operations with our other solid waste business; and (iii) realigning our Corporate organization with this new structure in order to provide support functions more efficiently.  

 Our principal operations are managed through our Groups. Each of our four geographic Groups had been further divided into 45 Market Areas. As a result of our restructuring, the Market Areas were consolidated into 25 Areas. We found that our larger Market Areas generally were able to achieve efficiencies through economies of scale that were not present in our smaller Market Areas, and this reorganization has allowed us to lower costs and to continue to standardize processes and improve productivity. In addition, during the first quarter of 2009, responsibility for the oversight of day-to-day recycling operations at our material recovery facilities and secondary processing facilities was transferred from our Waste Management Recycle America, or WMRA, organization to our four geographic Groups. By integrating the management of our recycling facilities’ operations with our other solid waste business, we are able to more efficiently provide comprehensive environmental solutions to our customers. In addition, as a result of this realignment, we have significantly reduced the overhead costs associated with managing this portion of our business and have increased the geographic Groups’ focus on maximizing the profitability and return on invested capital of our business on an integrated basis.  

 This restructuring eliminated over 1,500 employee positions throughout the Company. During 2009, we recognized $50 million of pre-tax charges associated with this restructuring, of which $41 million were related to employee severance and benefit costs. The remaining charges were primarily related to lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

 In 2010, we recognized $2 million of income related to the reversal of pre-tax restructuring charges.   

 42   
 (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items  

 The following table summarizes the major components of “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Income from Divestitures — The net gain from divestitures during 2008 was a result of our focus on selling underperforming businesses and primarily related to the divestiture of underperforming collection operations in our Southern Group.  

 Asset Impairments — Through December 31, 2008, we capitalized $70 million of accumulated costs associated with the development of a new waste and recycling revenue management system. A significant portion of these costs was specifically associated with the purchase of a license for waste and recycling revenue management software and the efforts required to develop and configure that software for our use. After a failed pilot implementation of the software in one of our smallest Market Areas, the development efforts associated with the revenue management system were suspended in 2007. During 2009, we determined to enhance and improve our existing revenue management system and not pursue alternatives associated with the development and implementation of the licensed software. Accordingly, in 2009, we recognized a non-cash charge of $51 million, $49 million of which was recognized during the first quarter of 2009 and $2 million of which was recognized during the fourth quarter of 2009, for the abandonment of the licensed software.  

 We recognized an additional $32 million of impairment charges during 2009, $27 million of which was recognized by our Western Group during the fourth quarter of 2009 to fully impair a landfill in California as a result of a change in our expectations for the future operations of the landfill. The remaining impairment charges were primarily attributable to a charge required to write down certain of our investments in portable self-storage operations to their fair value as a result of our acquisition of a controlling financial interest in those operations.  

 During 2008, we recognized a $4 million impairment charge, primarily as a result of a decision to close a landfill in our Southern Group.  

 Other — We filed a lawsuit in March 2008 related to the revenue management software implementation that was suspended in 2007 and abandoned in 2009. In April 2010, we settled the lawsuit and received a one-time cash payment. The settlement resulted in an increase in income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $77 million.   

 43   
 Income From Operations by Reportable Segment  

 The following table summarizes income from operations by reportable segment for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  *    Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison.   

 Reportable Segments — The most significant items affecting the results of operations of our four geographic Groups during the three-year period ended December 31, 2010 are summarized below:  

    •   revenue growth from yield on our base business;   

    •   market prices for recyclable commodities reflected significant improvement year-over-year during 2010 and a sharp decline during 2009 as compared with 2008;   

    •   the accretive benefits of recent acquisitions, in particular during 2010 and to a lesser extent during 2009;   

    •   continued volume declines due to economic conditions, increased pricing, competition and recent trends of waste reduction and waste diversion by consumers;   

    •   increasing direct and indirect costs for diesel fuel, which outpaced the related revenue growth from our fuel surcharge program in both 2010 and 2009, although a portion of the 2010 shortfall was reduced during the fourth quarter due, in part, to changes we made in our fuel surcharge program; and   

    •   higher salaries and wages due to annual merit increases that were effective in July 2009 for hourly employees and in April 2010 for both salaried and hourly employees.    

 The comparability of each of our geographic Groups’ operating results for the periods was also affected by the restructuring charges recognized during the year ended December 31, 2009.  

 Other significant items affecting the comparability of our Groups’ results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 are summarized below:  

 Eastern — During 2009, the Group recognized (i) an $18 million increase in revenues and income from operations associated with an oil and gas lease at one of our landfills; and (ii) a $9 million charge related to bargaining unit employees in New Jersey agreeing to our proposal to withdraw them from an underfunded multiemployer pension fund.  

 During 2008, the Group’s operating income was negatively affected by a $14 million charge related to the withdrawal of certain collective bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans.  

 Midwest — The income from operations of our Midwest Group for 2010 was significantly affected by the recognition of charges of $26 million as a result of employees of five bargaining units in Michigan and Ohio agreeing to our proposal to withdraw them from an underfunded multiemployer pension plan.   

 44   
 The Group’s 2008 operating results were negatively affected by $44 million of additional operating expenses primarily incurred as a result of a labor dispute in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Included in the labor dispute expenses were $32 million in charges related to the withdrawal of certain of the Group’s bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans.  

 Additionally, when comparing the average exchange rate for 2010 with 2009, the Canadian exchange rate strengthened by 10%, which increased the Group’s income from operations. When comparing the average exchange rate for 2009 with 2008, the Canadian exchange rate weakened by 7%, which decreased the Group’s income from operations. The effects of foreign currency translation were the most significant to this Group because substantially all of our Canadian operations are managed by our Midwest Group.  

 Southern — Additional volumes from oil spill clean-up activities along the Gulf Coast and lower repair and maintenance costs favorably impacted the Group’s 2010 income from operations.  

 During 2008, the Group’s operating income was favorably affected by $29 million of divestiture gains, offset, in part, by a $3 million landfill impairment charge. Also favorably affecting the comparison of the Group’s results in 2009 as compared with 2008 was the recognition of $9 million of favorable adjustments during 2009 resulting from changes in estimates associated with our obligations for landfill capping, closure and post-closure. Similar favorable adjustments impacted the Group’s results during 2010.  

 Western — The Group’s 2010 income from operations includes $12 million of additional “Selling, general and administrative” expense recognized as a result of a litigation settlement.  

 The Group’s 2009 income from operations includes the recognition of an impairment charge of $27 million as a result of a change in expectations for the future operations of an inactive landfill in California.  

 Further affecting the comparison of 2010 results with 2009 was the recognition of $7 million of favorable adjustments to landfill amortization expense during 2010 associated with our obligations for landfill capping, closure and post-closure, and a net $5 million of expense recognized for adjustments related to these obligations during 2009. The unfavorable adjustments during 2009 primarily related to a closed landfill in Los Angeles, California for which the Group recognized additional amortization expense. The additional expense in 2009 did not affect the comparison to 2008 because, during 2008, we recognized an unfavorable adjustment at the same landfill which was of a similar magnitude.  

 Wheelabrator — The decrease in the income from operations of our Wheelabrator Group for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009 was driven by an increase in maintenance-related outages as compared with the prior year, which resulted in decreased electricity generation and increased plant maintenance costs. These increases are attributable to the acceleration of repair and maintenance expenses at our facility in Portsmouth, Virginia that we acquired in April 2010, and expenses at certain of our other facilities. The Group also experienced an increase in litigation settlement costs as compared with 2009. These unfavorable items were partially offset by the benefit of increased revenues from the sale of metals.  

 The comparability of the Group’s 2009 income from operations with 2008 was significantly affected by (i) a decline in market prices for electricity, which had a significant impact on the Group’s results in 2009 due to the expiration of several long-term energy contracts and short-term pricing arrangements; (ii) an increase in costs for international and domestic business development activities; and (iii) an increase in “Operating” expenses of $11 million as a result of a significant increase in the property taxes assessed for one of our waste-to-energy facilities. Exposure to current electricity market prices increased from 24% of total electricity production in 2008 to 46% in 2009.  

 Significant items affecting the comparability of the remaining components of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 are summarized below:  

 Other — Our “Other” income from operations includes (i) the effects of those elements of our in-plant services, landfill gas-to-energy operations, and third-party subcontract and administration revenues managed by our Upstream®, Renewable Energy and Strategic Accounts organizations, respectively, that are not included with the operations of our reportable segments; (ii) our recycling and electronic recycling brokerage services; and (iii) the impacts of investments that we are making in expanded service offerings such as portable    

 45   
 self-storage and fluorescent lamp recycling. In addition, our “Other” income from operations reflects the impacts of non-operating entities that provide financial assurance and self-insurance support for the Groups or financing for our Canadian operations and also includes certain year-end adjustments recorded in consolidation related to the reportable segments that were not included in the measure of segment profit or loss used to assess their performance for the periods disclosed.  

 The slight improvement in operating results for our “Other” businesses during 2010 as compared with 2009 is due to improvements in our recycling brokerage business as a result of higher recycling commodity prices this year, largely offset by the unfavorable effects of (i) additional costs in the current year to support the Company’s strategic plan to grow into new markets and provide expanded service offerings and (ii) certain year-end adjustments recorded in consolidation related to our reportable segments that were not included in the measure of segment income from operations used to assess their performance for the periods disclosed. For 2010, the adjustments were primarily related to $15 million of additional expense recognized for litigation reserves and associated costs in the Southern and Wheelabrator Groups.  

 The unfavorable change in 2009 operating results compared with 2008 is largely due to (i) the effect that the previously discussed lower recycling commodity prices had on our recycling brokerage activities; (ii) an increase in costs incurred to support the identification and development of new lines of business that will complement our core business; (iii) the unfavorable impact lower energy prices during 2009 had on our landfill-gas-to-energy operations; and (iv) certain year-end adjustments recorded in consolidation related to our reportable segments that were not included in the measure of segment income from operations used to assess their performance for the periods disclosed.  

 Corporate and Other — Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include:  

    •   a benefit of $128 million when comparing 2010 with 2009 associated with the revenue management software implementation that was suspended in 2007 and abandoned in 2009, comprised of (i) a current year benefit of $77 million resulting from a one-time cash payment from a litigation settlement that occurred in April 2010 and (ii) $51 million in charges recognized during 2009 for the abandonment of the licensed software;   

    •   the recognition of net charges of $50 million during 2010 for estimates associated with environmental remediation liabilities at four closed sites;   

    •   the recognition of $34 million of favorable adjustments during 2009 by our closed sites management group due to increases in U.S. Treasury rates used to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and environmental remediation recovery assets, while in 2010 and 2008 the same group recognized charges to landfill operating costs of $2 million and $32 million, respectively, due to declines in U.S. Treasury rates during those periods;   

    •   the recognition of $9 million in restructuring charges during 2009;   

    •   a significant increase in “Selling, general and administrative” expenses during 2010 as result of cost increases related to our equity compensation, consulting fees, bonus expense, annual salary and wage increases and headcount increases to support the Company’s strategic initiatives; partially offset by a favorable litigation settlement during the third quarter of 2010; and   

    •   a significant decline in “Selling, general and administrative” expenses in 2009 as compared with 2008 resulting from workforce reductions associated with the January 2009 restructuring, increased efforts to reduce our controllable spending and lower equity compensation costs.    

 Renewable Energy Operations  

 We have extracted value from the waste streams we manage for years, and we are focusing on increasing our ability to do so, particularly in the field of clean and renewable energy. Most significantly, our current operations produce renewable energy through the waste-to-energy facilities that are managed by our Wheelabrator Group and our landfill gas-to-energy operations. We are actively seeking opportunities to enhance our existing renewable    

 46   
 energy service offerings to ensure that we can respond to the shifting demands of consumers and to ensure that we are acting as a leader in environmental stewardship.  

 We are disclosing the following supplemental information related to the operating results of our renewable energy operations for 2010 (in millions) because we believe that it provides information related to the significance of our current renewable energy operations, the profitability of these operations and the costs we are incurring to develop these operations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Interest Expense  

 Our interest expense was $473 million in 2010, $426 million in 2009 and $455 million in 2008. When comparing 2010 with 2009, the significant increase in our interest expense is primarily due to (i) the issuance of an additional $600 million of senior notes in November 2009 to support acquisitions and investments made throughout 2010, (ii) significantly higher costs related to the execution and maintenance of our revolving credit facility, which was refinanced in June 2010, and (iii) a decrease in benefits to interest expense provided by active interest rate swaps as a result of decreases in the notional amount of swaps outstanding. These increases in interest expense were offset, in part, by a decline in market interest rates, which has reduced the interest costs of our tax-exempt borrowings and our Canadian credit facility.  

 When comparing 2009 with 2008, the decrease in interest expense was primarily due to declines in market interest rates, which increased the benefits to interest expense provided by our active interest rate swap agreements and reduced the interest expense associated with our tax-exempt bonds and our Canadian credit facility.  

 Interest income  

 Interest income was $4 million in 2010, $13 million in 2009 and $19 million in 2008. The decreases in interest income are primarily related to a decline in market interest rates. Although our average cash and cash equivalents balances increased each year, near-historic low short-term interest rates have resulted in insignificant interest income being generated on current balances.   

 47   
 Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities  

 During 2010, our “Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities” was primarily related to our noncontrolling interest in a limited liability company established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties. The equity losses generated by the limited liability company were more than offset by tax benefits realized as a result of this investment as discussed below in Provision for Income Taxes. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our federal low-income housing investment.  

 Provision for Income Taxes  

 We recorded provisions for income taxes of $629 million in 2010, $413 million in 2009 and $669 million in 2008. These tax provisions resulted in an effective income tax rate of approximately 38.5%, 28.1%, and 37.2% for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 is primarily affected by (i) variations in our income before income taxes; (ii) the utilization of a capital loss carry-back; (iii) the realization of state net operating loss and credit carry-forwards; (iv) changes in effective state and Canadian statutory tax rates; (v) tax audit settlements; and (vi) the impact of federal low-income housing tax credits. The impacts of these items are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 During 2010, our current state tax rate increased from 6.25% to 6.75% resulting in an increase to our provision for income taxes of $5 million. In addition, our state deferred income taxes increased $37 million to reflect the impact of changes in the estimated tax rate at which existing temporary differences will be realized. During 2009, our current state tax rate increased from 6.0% to 6.25% and our deferred state tax rate increased from 5.5% to 5.75%, resulting in an increase to our income taxes of $3 million and $6 million, respectively. During 2008, our current state tax rate increased from 5.5% to 6.0%, resulting in an increase to our income taxes of $5 million. The increases in these rates are primarily due to changes in state law. The comparison of our effective state tax rate during the reported periods has also been affected by return-to-accrual adjustments, which increased our “Provision for income taxes” in 2010 and reduced our “Provision for income taxes” in 2009 and 2008.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We expect our 2011 recurring effective tax rate will be approximately 35.7% based on expected income levels and additional Section 45 tax credits resulting from our investment in a refined coal facility. Specifically, in January 2011, we acquired a noncontrolling interest in a limited liability company established to invest in and manage a refined coal facility. The facility’s refinement processes qualify for federal tax credits which we expect to realize through 2019 in accordance with Section 45 of the Internal Revenue Code.  

 The Small Business Jobs Act, signed into law in September 2010, contains a tax incentive package that includes a one-year extension through 2010 of the 50 percent bonus, or accelerated, depreciation provision first enacted in 2008 and subsequently renewed in 2009. The provision had expired at the end of 2009. Under the bonus depreciation provision, 50 percent of the basis of qualified capital expenditures may be deducted in the year the    

 48   
 property is placed in service and the remaining 50 percent deducted under normal depreciation rules. The acceleration of deductions on 2010 capital expenditures resulting from the bonus depreciation provision had no impact on our effective tax rate. However, the ability to accelerate depreciation deductions did decrease our 2010 cash taxes by $60 million. Taking the accelerated tax depreciation will result in increased cash taxes in future periods when the accelerated deductions for these capital expenditures would have otherwise been taken.  

 In addition, new tax law signed on December 17, 2010 includes an extension of the bonus depreciation allowance through the end of 2011, and increases the amount of qualifying capital expenditures that can be depreciated immediately from 50 percent to 100 percent. The 100 percent depreciation deduction applies to qualifying property placed in service between September 8, 2010 and December 31, 2011. The passage of the extension of bonus depreciation is estimated to decrease our 2011 cash taxes by approximately $190 million. The cash tax benefit realized in 2011 will result in increased cash taxes in future periods when the deduction for these capital expenditures would have otherwise been realized.  

 Noncontrolling Interests  

 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $49 million in 2010, $66 million in 2009 and $41 million in 2008. In each period, these amounts have been principally related to third parties’ equity interests in two limited liability companies that own three waste-to-energy facilities operated by our Wheelabrator Group. However the comparison of these amounts for the reported periods has been affected by (i) our January 2010 acquisition of a controlling financial interest in a portable self-storage business and (ii) the deconsolidation of certain capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation trusts as a result of our implementation of authoritative accounting guidance, effective January 1, 2010, associated with variable interest entities.  

 Landfill and Environmental Remediation Discussion and Analysis  

 We owned or operated 266 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2010 and we owned or operated 268 solid waste and five hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the expected remaining capacity, in cubic yards and tonnage of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills, is shown below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2010 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 40 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are seeking expansion permits at 33 of our landfills that meet the expansion criteria outlined in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions section above. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 45 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume.   

 49   
 The number of landfills we own or operate as of December 31, 2010, segregated by their estimated operating lives (in years), based on remaining permitted and expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume, was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    From an operating perspective, landfills we operate through lease agreements are similar to landfills we own because we own the landfill’s operating permit and will operate the landfill for the entire lease term, which in many cases is the life of the landfill. We are usually responsible for the capping, closure and post-closure obligations of the landfills we lease.  

  (b)    For operating contracts, the property owner owns the permit and we operate the landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the landfill. However, we are generally responsible for capping, closure and post-closure obligations under the operating contracts.   

 The following table reflects landfill capacity and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Amounts reflected here relate to the combined impacts of (i) new expansions pursued; (ii) increases or decreases in the airspace being pursued for ongoing expansion efforts; (iii) adjustments for differences between the airspace being pursued and airspace granted and (iv) decreases due to decisions to no longer pursue expansion permits.  

  (b)    We received expansion permits at 13 of our landfills during 2010 and ten of our landfills during 2009, demonstrating our continued success in working with municipalities and regulatory agencies to expand the disposal capacity of our existing landfills.  

  (c)    Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site-specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate; and operating practices. We continually focus on improving the utilization of      

 50   
     airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials; and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training.   

 The tons received at our landfills in 2010 and 2009 are shown below (tons in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 When a landfill we own or operate receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, we generally transfer the management of the site, including any remediation activities, to our closed sites management group. As of December 31, 2010, our closed sites management group managed 202 closed landfills.  

 Landfill Assets — We capitalize various costs that we incur to prepare a landfill to accept waste. These costs generally include expenditures for land (including the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property), permitting, excavation, liner material and installation, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. The cost basis of our landfill assets also includes estimates of future costs associated with landfill capping, closure and post-closure activities, which are discussed further below.  

 The following table reflects the total cost basis of our landfill assets and accumulated landfill airspace amortization as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2010 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 As of December 31, 2010, we estimate that we will spend approximately $400 million in 2011, and approximately $1 billion in 2012 and 2013 combined for the construction and development of our landfill assets. The specific timing of landfill capital spending is dependent on future events and spending estimates are subject to    

 51   
 change due to fluctuations in landfill waste volumes, changes in environmental requirements and other factors impacting landfill operations.  

 Landfill and Environmental Remediation Liabilities — As we accept waste at our landfills, we incur significant asset retirement obligations, which include liabilities associated with landfill capping, closure and post-closure activities. These liabilities are accounted for in accordance with authoritative guidance associated with accounting for asset retirement obligations, and are discussed in Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have liabilities for the remediation of properties that have incurred environmental damage, which generally was caused by operations or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired operations or a site. We recognize environmental remediation liabilities when we determine that the liability is probable and the estimated cost for the likely remedy can be reasonably estimated.  

 The following table reflects our landfill liabilities and our environmental remediation liabilities as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2010 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Landfill Costs and Expenses — As disclosed in the Operating Expenses section above, our landfill operating costs include interest accretion on asset retirement obligations, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs, and other landfill site costs. The following table summarizes these costs for each of the three years indicated (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The comparison of these costs for the reported periods has been significantly affected by accounting for changes in the risk-free discount rate that we use to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation liabilities and environmental remediation recovery assets, which is based on the rate for U.S. Treasury bonds with a term approximating the weighted-average period until settlement of the underlying obligations. Additionally, in 2010, we increased our cost estimates associated with environmental remediation obligations primarily based on a review and evaluation of existing remediation projects. As these remediation projects progressed, more defined reclamation plans were developed, resulting in an increase in remediation expense to reflect the more likely remedies.   

 52   
 Amortization of landfill airspace, which is included as a component of “Depreciation and amortization” expense, includes the following:  

    •   the amortization of landfill capital costs, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) estimated future costs for landfill development and construction required to develop our landfills to their remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and   

    •   the amortization of asset retirement costs arising from landfill capping, closure and post-closure obligations, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) projected asset retirement costs.    

 Amortization expense is recorded on a units-of-consumption basis, applying cost as a rate per ton. The rate per ton is calculated by dividing each component of the amortizable basis of a landfill by the number of tons needed to fill the corresponding asset’s airspace. Landfill capital costs and closure and post-closure asset retirement costs are generally incurred to support the operation of the landfill over its entire operating life, and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using a landfill’s total airspace capacity. Capping asset retirement costs are attributed to a specific capping event, and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using each discrete capping event’s estimated airspace capacity. Accordingly, each landfill has multiple per-ton amortization rates.  

 The following table calculates our landfill airspace amortization expense on a per-ton basis:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Different per-ton amortization rates are applied at each of our 271 landfills, and per-ton amortization rates vary significantly from one landfill to another due to (i) inconsistencies that often exist in construction costs and provincial, state and local regulatory requirements for landfill development and landfill capping, closure and post-closure activities; and (ii) differences in the cost basis of landfills that we develop versus those that we acquire. Accordingly, our landfill airspace amortization expense measured on a per-ton basis can fluctuate due to changes in the mix of volumes we receive across the Company year-over-year. The comparability of our total Company average landfill airspace amortization expense per ton for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 has also been affected by the recognition of reductions to amortization expense for changes in our estimates related to our capping, closure and post-closure obligations. Landfill amortization expense was reduced by $13 million in 2010, $14 million in 2009 and $3 million in 2008, for the effects of these changes in estimates. In each year, the majority of the reduced expense resulted from revisions in the estimated timing or cost of capping events that were generally the result of (i) concerted efforts to improve the operating efficiencies of our landfills and volume declines, both of which have allowed us to delay spending for capping activities; (ii) effectively managing the cost of capping material and construction; or (iii) landfill expansions that resulted in reduced or deferred capping costs.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet and landfill equipment; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at waste-to-energy and materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) capping, closure and post-closure activities at our landfills; (vi) the repayment of debt and discharging of other obligations; and (vii) investments and acquisitions that we believe will be accretive and provide continued growth in our business. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through our capital allocation program that provides for dividend payments and share repurchases.   

 53   
 Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations  

 The following is a summary of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cash and cash equivalents — Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit and money market funds that invest in U.S. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. The year-over-year decrease in our cash balances is largely attributable to our November 2009 senior note issuance. We used a significant portion of the proceeds of this debt issuance to fund investments and acquisitions during the first half of 2010, including (i) our acquisition of a waste-to-energy facility in Portsmouth, Virginia for $150 million and (ii) our purchase of a 40% equity investment in SEG, a subsidiary of Shanghai Chengtou Holding Co., Ltd., for $142 million. Pending application of the offering proceeds as described, we temporarily invested the proceeds in money market funds, which were reflected as cash equivalents in our December 31, 2009 Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

 Restricted trust and escrow accounts — Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist primarily of (i) funds deposited for purposes of settling landfill capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations; and (ii) funds received from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds held in trust for the construction of various projects or facilities. These balances are primarily included within long-term “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

 The decrease in capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation funds from December 31, 2009 is due to our implementation of revised accounting guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities. Effective January 1, 2010, we were required to deconsolidate trusts for which power over significant activities is shared, which reduced our restricted trust and escrow accounts by $109 million. Beginning in 2010, our interests in these variable interest entities were accounted for as investments in unconsolidated entities and receivables. These amounts are recorded in “Other receivables” and as long-term “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

 The decrease in tax-exempt bond funds is attributable to reimbursements distributed to us by the trust funds for approved construction and equipment expenditures and to a decrease in new tax-exempt borrowings.  

 Debt — We use long-term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax-exempt bonds to borrow on a long-term basis, but also use other instruments and facilities when appropriate. The components of our long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2010 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010 can primarily be attributed to (i) $908 million of cash borrowings, including $592 million in net proceeds from the June 2010 issuance of $600 million of senior notes; (ii) the cash repayment of $1,112 million of outstanding borrowings at    

 54   
 their scheduled maturities, including the repayment of $600 million of senior notes in August 2010 and; (iii) our investment in an entity that invests in and manages federal low-income housing projects, which increased our debt obligation by $215 million.  

 As of December 31, 2010, we had (i) $502 million of debt maturing within twelve months, including U.S.$212 million under our Canadian credit facility and $147 million of 7.65% senior notes that mature in March 2011; and (ii) $405 million of fixed-rate tax-exempt borrowings subject to re-pricing within the next twelve months. The amount reported as the current portion of long-term debt as of December 31, 2010 excludes $674 million of these amounts because we have the intent and ability to refinance portions of our current maturities on a long-term basis.  

 We have credit facilities in place to support our liquidity and financial assurance needs. The following table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit (in millions) at December 31, categorized by type of facility:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    In June 2010, we entered into a three-year, $2.0 billion revolving credit facility, replacing the $2.4 billion revolving credit facility that would have matured in August 2011. At December 31, 2010, we had no outstanding borrowings and $1,138 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility. The unused and available credit capacity was $862 million at December 31, 2010.  

  (b)    As of December 31, 2010, we had an aggregate committed capacity of $505 million under letter of credit facilities with maturities that extend from June 2013 to June 2015. As of December 31, 2010, no borrowings were outstanding under these letter of credit facilities and we had no unused or available credit capacity.  

  (c)    These letters of credit are outstanding under various arrangements that do not obligate the counterparty to provide a committed capacity.   

 The decrease in the utilization of the revolving credit facility and the increase in the utilization of our letter of credit and other facilities is due to the significantly higher costs associated with the $2.0 billion revolving credit facility that was executed in June 2010.  

 Summary of Cash Flow Activity  

 The following is a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows for 2010 and 2009 are summarized below:  

    •   Increase in earnings — Our income from operations increased by $229 million on a year-over-year basis, driven, in part, by a favorable cash benefit of $77 million resulting from a litigation settlement in April 2010. This earnings increase was also impacted by (i) the recognition of a $51 million non-cash charge during the fourth quarter of 2009 associated with the abandonment of licensed revenue management software and (ii) the recognition of a $27 million non-cash charge in the fourth quarter of 2009 as a result of a change in expectations for the future operations of an inactive landfill in California.     

 55   
 The comparison of our 2010 and 2009 income from operations was also affected by a $91 million increase in non-cash charges attributable to (i) equity-based compensation expense; (ii) interest accretion on landfill liabilities; (iii) interest accretion and discount rate adjustments on environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets; (iv) depreciation and amortization; and (v) the impact of the withdrawal of certain bargaining units from multiemployer pension plans. While the increase in non-cash charges unfavorably affected our earnings comparison, there is no impact on net cash provided by operating activities.  

    •   Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was negatively impacted in 2010 and favorably impacted in 2009, by changes in our working capital accounts. Although our working capital changes may vary from year to year, they are typically driven by changes in accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable changes, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments. Additionally, the following are other significant items that affected our cash flow from operations:    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows for 2009 and 2008 are summarized below:  

    •   Decrease in earnings — Our income from operations, excluding depreciation and amortization, decreased by $419 million on a year-over-year basis. However, this earnings decline was also impacted by (i) the recognition of a $51 million non-cash charge during the fourth quarter of 2009 associated with the abandonment of licensed revenue management software and (ii) the recognition of a $27 million non-cash charge in the fourth quarter of 2009 as a result of a change in expectations for the future operations of a landfill in California.    

 Further, approximately $55 million of the year-over-year decrease in earnings is related to the impact of divestiture gains and gains on sale of assets for which the cash flow impacts are reflected in investing activities in the caption “Proceeds from divestitures of businesses and other sales of assets.”  

 The comparison of our 2009 and 2008 income from operations was also affected by an $86 million decrease in non-cash charges attributable to (i) interest accretion and discount rate adjustments on environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets; (ii) equity-based compensation expense; and (iii) interest accretion on landfill liabilities. While the decrease in non-cash charges favorably affected our earnings comparison, there is no impact on net cash provided by operating activities.  

    •   Change in receivables — There was a significant decrease in the operating cash flows provided by changes in our receivables balances, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures, when comparing 2009 with 2008. This decrease is primarily attributable to unusual activity in 2008, including (i) the significant decrease in      

 56   
      sequential quarter revenues when comparing the fourth quarter of 2008 with the third quarter of 2008, which was driven by the decline in the demand and market prices for recyclable commodities; and (ii) the collection of a $60 million outstanding receivable related to our investments in synthetic fuel production facilities that provided us with Section 45K tax credits through 2007.    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 57   
 Net Cash Used in Financing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

    •   Share repurchases and dividend payments — Our 2010, 2009 and 2008 share repurchases and dividend payments have been made in accordance with capital allocation programs approved by our Board of Directors.    

 We paid $501 million for share repurchases in 2010, compared with $226 million in 2009 and $410 million in 2008. We repurchased approximately 15 million, 7 million and 12 million shares of our common stock in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decline in share repurchases during 2009 is largely attributable to the suspension of our share repurchases in July 2008 in connection with a proposed acquisition and to the state of the financial markets and the economy. Given the stabilization of the capital markets and economic conditions, we elected to resume our share repurchases during the third quarter of 2009.  

 We paid an aggregate of $604 million in cash dividends during 2010, compared with $569 million in 2009 and $531 million in 2008. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.27 in 2008, to $0.29 in 2009 and to $0.315 in 2010, and has been offset in part by a reduction in our common stock outstanding as a result of our share repurchase programs.  

 In December 2010, the Board of Directors announced that it expects future quarterly dividend payments will be $0.34 per share for dividends declared in 2011. All 2011 share repurchases will be made at the discretion of management, up to $575 million, as approved by the Board of Directors in December 2010, and all actual future dividends must first be declared by the Board of Directors at its discretion, with all decisions dependent on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future acquisitions and investments and other factors deemed relevant.  

    •   Proceeds from the exercise of common stock options— The exercise of common stock options and the related excess tax benefits generated a total of $54 million of financing cash inflows during 2010 compared with $20 million during 2009 and $37 million in 2008.   

    •   Net debt repayments — Net debt repayments were $204 million in 2010, net debt borrowings were $414 million in 2009 and net debt repayments were $260 million in 2008. The following summarizes our most significant cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year (in millions):    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 This summary excludes the impacts of non-cash borrowings and debt repayments. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we had a $215 million non-cash increase in our debt obligations as a result of the    

 58   
 issuance of a note payable in return for a noncontrolling interest in a limited liability company established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties. This investment is discussed in detail in Note 9. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, these non-cash financing activities were primarily associated with our tax-exempt bond financings. Proceeds from tax-exempt bond issuances, net of principal repayments made directly from trust funds, were $105 million in 2009 and $169 million in 2008.  

    •   Other — Net cash provided by other financing activities was $18 million in 2010 while net cash used in other financing activities was $50 million in 2009 and $43 million in 2008. These activities are primarily attributable to changes in our accrued liabilities for checks written in excess of cash balances due to the timing of cash deposits or payments. The cash provided by these activities in 2010 was offset, in part, by $13 million of financing costs paid to execute our new $2.0 billion revolving credit facility.    

 Summary of Contractual Obligations  

 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Environmental liabilities include capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2010 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities for capping, closure and post-closure will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills.  

  (b)    The amounts reported here represent the scheduled principal payments related to our long-term debt, excluding related interest. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding interest rates.  

  (c)    Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2010 include $405 million of tax-exempt bonds subject to re-pricing within the next twelve months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re-offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowing for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2010, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  (d)    Our recorded debt obligations include non-cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods.  

  (e)    Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.    

 59   
  (f)    Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For these contracts, we have estimated our future obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. Accordingly, the amounts reported in the table are not necessarily indicative of our actual cash flow obligations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations.   

 Liquidity Impacts of Uncertain Tax Positions  

 As discussed in Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of long-term “Other liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next twelve months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 We are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2010 nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

 Inflation  

 While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of diesel fuel, have affected our operating margins in recent years, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, as of December 31, 2010, over 35% of our collection revenues are generated under long-term agreements with price adjustments based on various indices intended to measure inflation. Additionally, management’s estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities.  

 New Accounting Pronouncements  

 Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements — In October 2009, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. This amended guidance addresses the determination of when individual deliverables within an arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting and modifies the manner in which consideration is allocated across the separately identifiable deliverables. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements became effective for the Company on January 1, 2011. The new accounting standard may be applied either retrospectively for all periods presented or prospectively to arrangements entered into or materially modified after the date of adoption. We do not expect that the adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

 However, our adoption of this guidance may significantly impact our accounting and reporting for future revenue arrangements to the extent they are material.  

  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.