PART I 

Item 1. Business 

General 

Equity Residential (“EQR”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed in March 1993, is an S&P 500 company focused on the acquisition, development and management of rental apartment properties in urban and high-density suburban coastal gateway markets. ERP Operating Limited Partnership (“ERPOP”), an Illinois limited partnership, was formed in May 1993 to conduct the multifamily residential property business of Equity Residential. EQR has elected to be taxed as a REIT. References to the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean collectively EQR, ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by EQR and/or ERPOP. References to the “Operating Partnership” mean collectively ERPOP and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by ERPOP. Unless otherwise indicated, the notes to consolidated financial statements apply to both the Company and the Operating Partnership. 

EQR is the general partner of, and as of December 31, 2017 owned an approximate 96.4% ownership interest in, ERPOP. All of the Company’s property ownership, development and related business operations are conducted through the Operating Partnership and EQR has no material assets or liabilities other than its investment in ERPOP. EQR issues public equity from time to time, the net proceeds of which it is obligated to contribute to ERPOP, but does not have any indebtedness as all debt is incurred by the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership holds substantially all of the assets of the Company, including the Company’s ownership interests in its joint ventures. The Operating Partnership conducts the operations of the business and is structured as a partnership with no publicly traded equity.  

 The Company’s corporate headquarters is located in Chicago, Illinois and the Company also operates property management offices in each of its coastal gateway markets. As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately 2,700 employees who provided real estate operations, leasing, legal, financial, accounting, acquisition, disposition, development and other support functions.  

Certain capitalized terms used herein are defined in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See also Note 17 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion regarding the Company’s segment disclosures. 

Available Information 

You may access our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to any of those reports we file with the SEC free of charge on our website, www.equityapartments.com. These reports are made available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with the SEC. The information contained on our website, including any information referred to in this report as being available on our website, is not a part of or incorporated into this report. 

Business Objectives and Operating and Investing Strategies 

The Company invests in apartment communities located in strategically targeted markets with the goal of maximizing our risk adjusted total return (operating income plus capital appreciation) on invested capital. 

We seek to maximize the income and capital appreciation of our properties by investing in markets that are characterized by conditions favorable to multifamily property operations and appreciation. We are focused on the coastal gateway markets of Boston, New York, Washington D.C., Southern California (including Los Angeles, Orange County and San Diego), San Francisco and Seattle. These markets generally feature one or more of the following characteristics that allow us to increase rents: 

•  

High home ownership costs; 

•  

Strong economic growth leading to job growth and household formation, which in turn leads to high demand for our apartments; 

•  

Urban and high-density suburban locations with an attractive quality of life leading to high resident demand and retention;  

•  

Favorable demographics contributing to a larger pool of target residents with a high propensity or greater preference to rent apartments; and 

6 

Table of Contents 

•  

Higher barriers to entry where, because of land scarcity or government regulation, it is typically more difficult or costly to build new apartment properties, creating limits on new supply. 

We believe our strategy also capitalizes on the increasing preference of renters of all ages to live in the urban core of cities or dense suburban locations near transit, entertainment and cultural amenities. Millennials, the approximately 78 million people born between 1981 and 2000, are a prime apartment rental demographic. Reports also show a growing trend among aging Baby Boomers, a demographic of more than 76 million people born between 1946 and 1964, toward apartment rentals. We believe that both groups appreciate the locational values described above as well as the flexibility that rental apartments offer. 

Our operating focus is on balancing occupancy and rental rates to maximize our revenue while exercising tight cost control to generate the highest possible return to our shareholders. Revenue is maximized by attracting qualified prospects to our properties, cost-effectively converting these prospects into new residents and keeping our residents satisfied so they will renew their leases upon expiration. While we believe that it is our high-quality, well-located assets that bring our customers to us, it is the customer service and superior value provided by our on-site personnel that keeps them renting with us and recommending us to their friends. 

We use technology to engage our customers in the way that they want to be engaged. Many of our residents utilize our web-based resident portal which allows them to sign and renew their leases, review their accounts and make payments, provide feedback and make service requests on-line. 

Acquisitions and developments may be financed from various sources of capital, which may include retained cash flow, issuance of additional equity and debt, sales of properties and joint venture arrangements. In addition, the Company may acquire properties in transactions that include OP Units as consideration for the acquired properties. Such transactions may, in certain circumstances, enable the sellers to defer, in whole or in part, the recognition of taxable income or gain that might otherwise result from the sales.  

As part of its strategy, the Company purchases completed and fully occupied apartment properties, partially completed or partially occupied properties and may acquire land parcels to hold and/or sell based on market opportunities as well as options to buy more land in the future. The Company may also seek to acquire properties by purchasing defaulted or distressed debt that encumbers desirable properties in the hope of obtaining title to property through foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure proceedings. 

Over the past several years, the Company has done an extensive repositioning of its portfolio into urban and highly walkable, close-in suburban assets. Since 2005, the Company has sold approximately 199,000 apartment units primarily located in the less dense portion of suburban markets for an aggregate sales price of approximately $23.8 billion, acquired nearly 70,000 apartment units primarily located in urban and high-density suburban markets for approximately $20.5 billion and began approximately $5.9 billion of development projects primarily located in urban and high-density suburban markets. We are currently seeking to acquire and develop assets in the following coastal gateway metropolitan areas: Boston, New York, Washington D.C., Southern California, San Francisco and Seattle.  

We endeavor to provide a richly diverse work environment that employs the highest performers, cultivates the best ideas and creates the widest possible platform for success. We are committed to elevating and supporting the core values of diversity and inclusion, total well-being (which brings together physical, financial, career, social and community well-being into a cohesive whole), and environmental, social and governance ("ESG"), which includes sustainability and social responsibility, by actively engaging in these areas. Each member of the executive team maintains an annual goal related to these core values. Our goal is to create and sustain an inclusive environment where diversity will thrive, employees will want to work and residents will want to live. We are committed to providing our employees with encouragement, guidance, time and resources to learn and apply the skills required to succeed in their jobs. We provide many classroom and on-line training courses to assist our employees in interacting with prospects and residents as well as extensive training for our customer service specialists in maintaining our properties and improvements, equipment and appliances. We actively promote from within and many senior corporate and property leaders have risen from entry level or junior positions. We monitor our employees' engagement by surveying them annually and find most employees say they are proud to work at the Company, value one another as colleagues, believe in our mission and values and feel their skills meet their job requirements. 

We have a commitment to sustainability and consider the environmental impacts of our business activities. Sustainability and social responsibility are key drivers of our focus on creating the best apartment communities for residents to live, work and play. We have a dedicated in-house team that initiates and applies sustainable practices in all aspects of our business, including investment activities, development, property operations and property management activities. With its high density, multifamily  

7 

Table of Contents 

housing is, by its nature, an environmentally friendly property type. Our recent acquisition and development activities have been primarily concentrated in pedestrian-friendly urban and close-in suburban locations near public transportation. When developing and renovating our properties, we strive to reduce energy and water consumption by investing in energy saving technology while positively impacting the experience of our residents and the value of our assets. We continue to implement a combination of irrigation, lighting, HVAC and renewable energy improvements at our properties that will reduce energy and water consumption. The Company was named the 2017 Global Residential Listed Sector Leader in ESG by GRESB, a globally recognized analysis of the ESG indicators of more than 800 real estate portfolios worldwide. The Company was also recently awarded the 2017 Residential Leader in the Light award for sustainability by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”). For additional information regarding our sustainability efforts, see our December 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability Report at our website, www.equityapartments.com. This report was reviewed and approved by the Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Trustees, which monitors the Company’s ongoing ESG efforts. For 2018, we continue to have an express company-wide goal regarding enhanced ESG efforts. Employees, including our executives, will have their performance against our various ESG goals evaluated as part of our annual performance review process. 

Please refer to Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for the Company’s Results of Operations and Liquidity. 

Starwood Transaction 

The Company executed an agreement with controlled affiliates of Starwood Capital Group (“Starwood”) on October 23, 2015 to sell a portfolio of 72 operating properties consisting of 23,262 apartment units located in five markets across the United States for $5.365 billion (the “Starwood Transaction” or “Starwood Portfolio”). On January 26 and 27, 2016, the Company closed on the sale of the entire portfolio described above. The sale of the Starwood Portfolio, combined with the other 2016 dispositions, resulted in the Company’s exit from the South Florida, Denver and New England (excluding Boston) markets and substantially completed the Company’s portfolio transformation which started approximately ten years ago. These sales narrowed the Company’s focus, which is now entirely directed towards our coastal gateway markets.  

The Company used the majority of the proceeds from the Starwood Transaction and other 2016 dispositions to pay two special dividends to its shareholders and holders of OP Units of $11.00 per share/unit in the aggregate, consisting of special dividends of $8.00 per share/unit (approximately $3.0 billion) on March 10, 2016 and $3.00 per share/unit (approximately $1.1 billion) on October 14, 2016. The Company used the majority of the remaining proceeds to reduce aggregate indebtedness in order to make the transaction leverage neutral. The Company retired approximately $2.0 billion in secured and unsecured debt, the majority of which was scheduled to mature in 2016 and 2017, which improved the Company’s already strong credit metrics.  

Competition 

All of the Company’s properties are located in developed areas that include other multifamily properties. The number of competitive multifamily properties in a particular area could have a material effect on the Company’s ability to lease apartment units at its properties and on the rents charged. The Company may be competing with other entities that have greater resources than the Company and whose managers have more experience than the Company’s managers. In addition, other forms of rental properties and single family housing provide housing alternatives to potential residents of multifamily properties. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information with respect to competition. 

Environmental Considerations 

See Item 1A. Risk Factors for information concerning the potential effects of environmental regulations on our operations. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors