PART I 

     ITEM 1. BUSINESS. 

 UAL Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, "UAL"), a holding company whose principal subsidiary is United Air Lines, Inc. (together with its primary subsidiaries, "United"), was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968. We sometimes use the words "we," "our," "us," and the "Company" in this Form 10-K for disclosures that relate to both UAL and United. Our world headquarters is located at 77 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60601. The mailing address is P.O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois 60666 (telephone number (312) 997-8000).  

 This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report of UAL and United. Unless otherwise noted, this information applies to both UAL and United. As UAL consolidates United for financial statement purposes, disclosures that relate to activities of United also apply to UAL.  

 Most of UAL's revenue and expenses in 2007 were from United's airline operations. United transports people and cargo through its Mainline operations, which utilize full-sized jet aircraft exceeding 70 seats in size, and its regional operations, which utilize smaller aircraft not exceeding 70 seats in size that are operated under contract by United Express® carriers.  

 United Airlines operates more than 3,300 flights a day on United, United Express and Ted to more than 200 U.S. domestic and international destinations from its hubs in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Denver, Chicago and Washington, D.C. With key global air rights in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe and Latin America, United is one of the largest international carriers based in the United States. United also is a founding member of Star Alliance, the world's largest airline network, which provides connections for our customers to 897 destinations in 160 countries worldwide. United offers a unique set of products and services to target distinct customer groups, which we believe will allow us to generate a revenue premium. This strategy of market segmentation is intended to optimize margins and costs and is focused on delivering an improved experience for all customers, and a best-in-class customer experience for our premium customers. These services include:    

•United Mainline, including United First®, United Business® and Economy Plus®, the last providing three to five inches of extra legroom on all United Mainline flights (including Ted), and on explusSM United Express flights; 

•A new international premium travel experience featuring 180-degree, lie-flat beds in business class. A total of 97 international aircraft will be refitted with new premium seats, entertainment systems and other product enhancements upon installation of this equipment between late 2007 and early 2010; 

•Ted, a low-fare service, which now operates 56 aircraft and serves 21 airports with over 200 daily departures from all United hubs; 

•p.s.SM—a premium transcontinental service connecting New York with both Los Angeles and San Francisco; and 

•United Express, with a total fleet of 279 aircraft operated by regional airline partners, including over 100 aircraft that offer explus, United's premium regional service, redefining the regional jet experience. Explus aircraft offer both first class and Economy Plus seating.   

 The Company also generates revenue through its Mileage Plus® Frequent Flyer Program ("Mileage Plus"), United CargoSM and United Services. Mileage Plus contributed approximately $800 million to passenger and other revenue in 2007 and helps the Company attract and retain high-value customers. Mileage Plus revenue increased significantly in 2007, as compared to 2006, primarily due to the change in the inactive customer account expiration period from 36 months to 18 months, as discussed in the "Critical Accounting Policies" section of Item 7, below. United Cargo generated $770 million in freight  

3 

and mail revenue in 2007. United Services generated $183 million in revenue in 2007 by utilizing downtime of otherwise under-utilized aircraft maintenance resources through third-party maintenance services. In 2007, revenues from aircraft ground handling and flight crew training services are not classified as part of United Services revenues, as discussed below.  

 We believe our restructuring has made United competitive with its network airline peers. The Company seeks to achieve its goal of further improving profit margins through continuous improvements to its core business across its operations by focusing on superior customer service, controlling unit costs and improving unit revenues. With the bankruptcy reorganization completed in early 2006 and the creation of a solid platform, the Company is now building on its core competitive advantages, including strong brand recognition, its leading loyalty program and its broad global airline network.  

 During 2007, UAL's management and its Board of Directors completed a strategic planning session to discuss the future of United. The Company has developed a five-year plan, the ambition of which is to position United as the airline of choice for premium customers, employees and investors, while maintaining our fundamental commitment to safety and balancing the needs of all of our stakeholders. The Company's main focus continues to be strengthening our core business, and the plan includes a detailed roadmap of more than 250 initiatives and significant capital investments for the Company over the next five years. These investments are targeted to support improvements for customers and employees, and drive revenue and efficiency improvements. In addition to strengthening the performance of the airline, our plan also includes unlocking the value of business units such as United Services and Mileage Plus. Our goal is to generate returns to stockholders that are competitive with U.S. industry in general. To achieve these goals, we are focused on consistently delivering superior service, delivering differentiated products and services, building employees' connection and commitment to United, developing new sources of revenue and controlling costs.  

 The Company's web address is www.united.com. The information contained on or connected to the Company's web address is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Through this website, the Company's filings with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are accessible without charge as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

 This Form 10-K contains various "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements represent the Company's expectations and beliefs concerning future events, based on information available to the Company on the date of the filing of this Form 10-K, and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those referenced in the forward-looking statements are listed in Item 1A, Risk Factors and in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, unforeseen events, changed circumstances or otherwise. 

Bankruptcy of Predecessor Company  

 The following discussion provides general background information regarding the Company's Chapter 11 cases, and is not intended to be an exhaustive summary. Detailed information pertaining to its bankruptcy filings may be obtained at www.pd-ual.com and in the Annual Reports on Form 10-K for both UAL Corporation and United Air Lines, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2006 (the "2006 Annual Reports"). See also Note 1, "Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11," in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

4 

 On December 9, 2002 (the "Petition Date"), UAL, United, and 26 direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the "Debtors") filed voluntary petitions to reorganize their businesses under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division (the "Bankruptcy Court"). On January 20, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Debtors' Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the "Plan of Reorganization"). The Plan of Reorganization became effective and the Debtors emerged from bankruptcy protection on February 1, 2006 (the "Effective Date"). On the Effective Date, the Company implemented fresh-start reporting in accordance with American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Statement of Position 90-7, Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code ("SOP 90-7").  

 The Plan of Reorganization generally provided for the full payment or reinstatement of allowed administrative claims, priority claims and secured claims, and the distribution of new UAL equity and debt securities to the Debtors' creditors and employees in satisfaction of allowed unsecured and deemed claims. UAL common and preferred securities outstanding at January 31, 2006 were canceled. The Plan of Reorganization contemplated UAL issuing up to 125 million shares of new UAL common stock consisting of 115 million shares to be issued to unsecured creditors and employees and 10 million shares to be issued pursuant to UAL's share-based management and director compensation plans. The new UAL common stock was listed on a NASDAQ market and began trading under the symbol "UAUA" on February 2, 2006.  

 Significant Matters Remaining to be Resolved in Bankruptcy Court. During the course of its Chapter 11 proceedings, the Company successfully reached settlements with most of its creditors and resolved most pending claims against the Debtors. However, certain significant matters remain to be resolved in the Bankruptcy Court. For details, see Note 1, "Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11—Significant Matters Remaining to be Resolved in Chapter 11 Cases," in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Operations  

 Segments. The Company operates its businesses through two reporting segments: Mainline and United Express. The Company manages its business as an integrated network with assets deployed across integrated mainline and regional carrier networks. This focus on managing the business seeks to maximize the profitability of the overall airline network. Financial information on the Company's reporting segments and operating revenues by geographic regions, as reported to the U.S. Department of Transportation ("DOT"), can be found in Note 10, "Segment Information," in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Mainline. Mainline operating revenues were $17.0 billion in 2007, $16.4 billion in 2006 and $15.0 billion and $14.9 billion for UAL and United, respectively, in 2005. As of December 31, 2007, mainline domestic operations served approximately 90 destinations primarily throughout the U.S. and Canada and operated hubs at Chicago O'Hare International Airport ("O'Hare"), Denver International Airport, Los Angeles International Airport ("LAX"), San Francisco International Airport ("SFO") and Washington Dulles International Airport ("Washington Dulles"). Mainline international operations serve the Pacific, Atlantic, and Latin America regions. The Pacific region includes non-stop service to Beijing, Hong Kong, Nagoya, Osaka, Seoul, Shanghai, Sydney, Tokyo and Taipei (with service to Guangzhou, China scheduled to commence in June 2008); direct service to Bangkok, Seoul and Singapore via Tokyo; direct service to Ho Chi Minh City and Singapore via Hong Kong, and to Melbourne via Sydney. The Atlantic region includes non-stop service to Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt, Kuwait City, London, Munich, Paris, Rome and Zurich. The Latin American region offers non-stop service to Buenos Aires, Sao Paulo and direct service to Rio de Janeiro. The Latin American region also serves various Mexico destinations including Cancun, Cozumel (seasonal), Mexico City, Puerto Vallarta, San Jose del Cabo, and Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo (seasonal); various Caribbean points  

5 

including Aruba and seasonal service to Montego Bay, Punta Cana, and St. Maarten; and Central America including Guatemala City, Liberia and Costa Rica (seasonal).  

 UAL's operating revenues attributed to mainline domestic operations were $10.9 billion in 2007, $10.0 billion in 2006 and $9.0 billion in 2005. Operating revenues attributed to mainline international operations were $6.1 billion in 2007, $6.4 billion in 2006 and $6.0 billion in 2005. For purposes of the Company's geographic revenue reporting, the Company considers destinations in Mexico and the Caribbean to be part of the Latin America region as opposed to the North America region.  

 The mainline segment operated 460 aircraft as of December 31, 2007, and produced approximately 142 billion available seat miles ("ASMs") and 117 billion revenue passenger miles ("RPMs") during 2007; in 2006, the mainline segment produced approximately 143 billion ASMs and 117 billion RPMs.  

 United Express. United Express operating revenues were $3.1 billion in 2007, $2.9 billion in 2006 and $2.4 billion in 2005. United has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as United Express. United Express is an extension of the United mainline network (United, Ted and p.s.). SkyWest Airlines, Mesa Airlines, Colgan Airlines, Chautauqua Airlines, Shuttle America, Trans States Airlines, GoJet Airlines and ExpressJet Airlines are all United Express carriers, most of which operate under capacity purchase agreements. Under these agreements, United pays the regional carriers contractually-agreed fees (carrier-controlled costs) for operating these flights plus a variable reimbursement (incentive payment) based on agreed performance metrics. The carrier-controlled costs are based on specific rates for various operating expenses of the United Express carriers, such as crew expenses, maintenance and aircraft ownership, some of which are multiplied by specific operating statistics (e.g., block hours, departures) while others are fixed monthly amounts. The incentive payment is a markup applied to the carrier-controlled costs for superior operational performance. Under these capacity agreements, United is responsible for all fuel costs incurred as well as landing fees, facilities rent and de-icing costs, which are passed through without any markup. In return, the regional carriers operate this capacity on schedules determined by United, which also determines pricing, revenues and inventory levels and assumes the inventory and distribution risk for the available seats.  

 The capacity agreements which United has entered into with United Express carriers do not include the provision of ground handling services. As a result, United Express sources ground handling support from a variety of third-party providers as well as by utilizing internal United resources in some cases.  

 While the regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements comprise over 95% of United Express flying, the Company also has limited prorate agreements with SkyWest Airlines and Colgan Airlines. Under these prorate agreements, United and its prorate partners agree to divide revenue collected from each passenger according to a formula, while both United and the prorate partners are individually responsible for their own costs of operations. United also collects a program fee from Colgan Airlines to cover certain marketing and distribution costs such as credit card transaction fees, global distribution systems ("GDS") transaction fees, and frequent flyer costs. Unlike capacity purchase agreements, these prorate agreements require the regional carrier to retain the control and risk of scheduling, market selection, seat pricing and inventory for its flights.  

 United Express carriers operated 279 aircraft as of December 31, 2007, and produced approximately 16 billion ASMs and 13 billion RPMs during 2007, while producing approximately 16 billion ASMs and 12 billion RPMs in 2006.  

 Ted. In February of 2004, United launched Ted in Denver to provide a tailored single-class service, including Economy Plus seating, to better serve leisure destinations in the United network. Currently 56 A320 aircraft are configured for Ted service. Ted provides service from United's five domestic hubs to destinations in Arizona, California, Florida, Louisiana, Nevada, Mexico and the  

6 

Caribbean. As of December 31, 2007, Ted provided service from all of United's hubs to 11 destinations in the U.S., including its territories, and five in Mexico.  

 United Cargo. United Cargo offers both domestic and international shipping through a variety of services including United Small Package Delivery, Express and General cargo services. Freight shipments comprise approximately 90% of United Cargo's volumes, with mail comprising the remainder. During 2007, United Cargo accounted for approximately 4% of the Company's operating revenues by generating $770 million in freight and mail revenue, a 3% increase versus 2006.  

 United Services. United Services is a global airline support business offering customers comprehensive aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul ("MRO") services which include engine maintenance, maintenance of high-tech components, line maintenance and landing gear maintenance. United Services brings nearly 80 years of experience to serve approximately 110 airline customers worldwide. During 2007, United Services generated approximately $183 million in third-party revenue, a 15% decrease as compared to 2006 as a result of the discontinuance of some low margin contracts. Revenues from ground handling and flight crew training services, which were $67 million in 2006, are not classified as part of United Services in 2007.  

 Fuel. Since 2005, fuel has been the Company's largest operating expense. The Company's annual mainline and United Express fuel costs and consumption for 2007 and 2006 were as follows:   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 United Express fuel expense is classified as Regional affiliates expense in the Statements of Consolidated Operations.  

 The price and availability of jet fuel significantly affect the Company's results of operations. A significant rise in jet fuel prices was the primary reason that the Company's fuel expense increased in each of the last three years. The Company may not be able to offset all of any future fuel expense increases through higher revenues and the use of fuel hedge contracts.  

 To ensure adequate supplies of fuel and to provide a measure of control over fuel costs, the Company arranges to have fuel shipped on major pipelines and stored close to its major hub locations. Although the Company currently does not anticipate a significant reduction in the availability of jet fuel, a number of factors make predicting fuel prices and fuel availability uncertain, including changes in world energy demand, geopolitical uncertainties affecting energy supplies from oil-producing nations, industrial accidents, threats of terrorism directed at oil supply infrastructure, extreme weather conditions causing temporary shutdowns of production and refining capacity, and changes in relative demand for other petroleum products that may impact the quantity and price of jet fuel produced from period to period.  

 Alliances. United has entered into a number of bilateral and multilateral alliances with other airlines, expanding travel choices for our customers through these relationships by participating in markets worldwide that United does not serve directly. These marketing alliances typically include one or more of the following features: joint frequent flyer program participation; code sharing of flight operations (whereby selected seats on one carrier's flights can be marketed under the brand name of another carrier); coordination of reservations, ticketing, passenger check-in, baggage handling and flight schedules; and other resource-sharing activities.  

7 

 The most significant of these arrangements is the Star Alliance, a global integrated airline network co-founded by United in 1997. As of February 1, 2008, Star Alliance carriers serve nearly 900 destinations in 160 countries with over 17,000 average daily flights. Current Star Alliance partners, in addition to United, are Air Canada, Air China, Air New Zealand, All Nippon Airways, Asiana, the Austrian Airlines Group, bmi, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, SAS, Shanghai Airlines, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, Spanair, Swiss, TAP Portugal, THAI and US Airways. Regional member carriers are Adria Airways (Slovenia), Blue1 (Finland) and Croatia Airlines. Air India, EgyptAir and Turkish Airlines have been accepted as future members and are expected to join the Star Alliance soon.  

 United also has independent marketing agreements with other air carriers including Aloha, Gulfstream International, Great Lakes Aviation, Island Air, Qatar Airways, TACA Group, TAM and Virgin Blue. In February 2008, US Airways and United reached final agreement on amendments to the contracts governing their code share and Star Alliance relationship; and the Bankruptcy Court approved these amendments.  

 Mileage Plus. Mileage Plus builds customer loyalty by offering awards and services to frequent travelers. Mileage Plus members can earn mileage credit for flights on United, United Express, Ted, members of the Star Alliance, and certain other airlines that participate in the program. Miles also can be earned by purchasing the goods and services of our non-airline partners, such as hotels, car rental companies, and credit card issuers. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel and non-travel awards. There are more than 52 million members enrolled in Mileage Plus. In 2007, 2.2 million Mileage Plus travel awards were used on United, as compared to 2.3 million in 2006 and 2.2 million in 2005. These amounts represent the number of awards for which travel was provided and not the number of available seats that were allocated to award travel. These awards represented 8.0% of United's total revenue passenger miles in 2007, 8.1% in 2006 and 7.4% in 2005. In addition, Mileage Plus members redeemed miles for 928,000 non-United awards in 2007 as compared to 610,000 in 2006. Non-United awards include awards such as Red Carpet club memberships, car and hotel awards, merchandise, and travel solely on another air carrier. Total miles redeemed for travel on United in 2007, including travel awards and class-of-service upgrades, represented 88% of the total miles redeemed (for both completed and future travel).  

 For a detailed description of the accounting treatment of Mileage Plus program activity, which was changed to a deferred revenue model upon the adoption of fresh-start reporting on the Effective Date, see "Critical Accounting Policies" in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

 UAL Loyalty Services, LLC ("ULS"). ULS focuses on expanding the non-core marketing businesses of United and building airline customer loyalty. ULS operates substantially all United-branded travel distribution and customer loyalty e-commerce activities, such as united.com. In addition, ULS owns and operates Mileage Plus, being responsible for member relationships, communications and account management; while United is responsible for other aspects of Mileage Plus, including elite membership programs such as Global Services, Premier, Premier Executive and Premier Executive 1K, and the establishment of award mileage redemption programs and airline-related customer loyalty recognition policies. United is also responsible for managing relationships with its Mileage Plus airline partners, while ULS manages relationships with non-airline business partners, such as the Mileage Plus Visa Card, hotels, car rental companies and dining programs, among others.  

 Distribution Channels. The majority of United's airline seat inventory continues to be distributed through the traditional channels of travel agencies and GDS, such as Sabre and Galileo. The growing use of alternative distribution systems, including  www.united.com and GDS new entrants, however, provides United with an opportunity to lower its ticket distribution costs. To encourage customer use of  

8 

lower-cost channels and capitalize on these cost-saving opportunities, the Company will continue to expand the capabilities of its website.  

Industry Conditions  

 Seasonality. The air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Company's operations can be adversely impacted by severe weather and the first and fourth quarter results of operations normally reflect lower travel demand. Historically, results of operations are better in the second and third quarters which reflect higher levels of travel demand.  

 Domestic Competition. The domestic airline industry is highly competitive and dynamic. In domestic markets, new and existing carriers are generally free to initiate service between any two points within the U.S. United's competitors consist primarily of other airlines, a number of whom are low-cost carriers ("LCC(s)") with cost structures lower than United's, and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation.  

 The rate of capacity increases in the domestic market has slowed in the past several years, but LCCs have continued expanding into markets where United flies. United has extensive experience competing directly with LCCs in its markets and believes it is well positioned to compete effectively.  

 Domestic pricing decisions are largely affected by the need to be competitive with other U.S. airlines. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Company's financial results because United often finds it necessary to match competitors' fares to maintain passenger traffic. Attempts by United and other network airlines to raise fares often fail due to lack of competitive matching by LCCs; however, because of capacity constraint and the pressure of higher fuel prices and other industry conditions, some fare increases have occurred. Because of different cost structures, low ticket prices that may generate a profit for a LCC may have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results. Also, additional revenue from fuel-related fare increases may not completely offset the Company's increased cost of fuel.  

 International Competition. In United's international networks, the Company competes not only with U.S. airlines, but also with foreign carriers. Competition on specified international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulations. Recently the U.S. and European Union ("EU") reached an agreement to reduce restrictions on flight operations between the two entities. This agreement is expected to increase competition on United's transatlantic network from both U.S. and European airlines. In our Pacific operations, competition will be increasing as the governments of the U.S. and China permit more U.S. and Chinese airlines to fly new routes between the two countries. See "Industry Regulation," below. Part of United's ability to successfully compete with non-U.S. carriers on international routes is its ability to generate traffic from and to the entire U.S. via its integrated domestic route network. Foreign carriers are currently prohibited by U.S. law from carrying local passengers between two points in the U.S. and United experiences comparable restrictions in many foreign countries. In addition, U.S. carriers are often constrained from carrying passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities due to limitations in air service agreements or restrictions imposed unilaterally by foreign governments. To compensate for these structural limitations, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into alliances and marketing arrangements that allow these carriers to feed traffic to each other's flights (see "Alliances," above, for further details).  

 Insurance. United carries hull and liability insurance of a type customary in the air transportation industry, in amounts that the Company deems appropriate, covering passenger liability, public liability and damage to United's aircraft and other physical property. United also maintains other types of insurance such as property, directors and officers, cargo, automobile and the like, with limits and deductibles that are standard within the industry. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the Company's insurance premiums have increased significantly. Additionally, after September 11, 2001,  

9 

commercial insurers canceled United's liability insurance for losses resulting from war and associated perils (terrorism, sabotage, hijacking and other similar events). The U.S. government subsequently agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines until August 31, 2008 covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. The Secretary of Transportation may extend this coverage until December 31, 2008. If the U.S. government does not extend this coverage beyond August 31, 2008, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. See "Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the Company's operations and financial results" in Item 1A, Risk Factors, below.  

Industry Regulation  

Domestic Regulation.  

 General. All carriers engaged in air transportation in the United States are subject to regulation by the DOT. Among its responsibilities, the DOT issues certificates of public convenience and necessity for domestic air transportation (no air carrier, unless exempted, may provide air transportation without a DOT certificate of public convenience and necessity), grants international route authorities, approves international code share agreements, regulates methods of competition and enforces certain consumer protection regulations, such as those dealing with advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability.  

 Airlines also are regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA"), a division of the DOT, primarily in the areas of flight operations, maintenance and other safety and technical matters. The FAA has authority to issue air carrier operating certificates and aircraft airworthiness certificates, prescribe maintenance procedures, and regulate pilot and other employee training, among other responsibilities. From time to time, the FAA issues rules that require air carriers to take certain actions, such as the inspection or modification of aircraft and other equipment, that may cause the Company to incur substantial, unplanned expenses. The airline industry is also subject to various other federal, state and local laws and regulations. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security ("DHS") has jurisdiction over virtually all aspects of civil aviation security. See "Legislation," below. The U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ") has jurisdiction over certain airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail. Labor relations in the airline industry are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act ("RLA"). The Company is also subject to inquiries by the DOT, FAA and other U.S. and international regulatory bodies.  

 Airport Access. Access to landing and take-off rights, or "slots," at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by United are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. The FAA designated Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport in Washington, D.C. as a "High Density Rule traffic airport" and has limited the number of departure and arrival slots at the airport. Slot restrictions at O'Hare were eliminated in July 2002 and were eliminated at John F. Kennedy International Airport ("JFK") and LaGuardia Airport ("LaGuardia"), both in New York, in January 2007. From time to time, the elimination of slot restrictions has impacted United's operational performance and reliability.  

 Notwithstanding the formal elimination of slot restrictions at O'Hare in July 2002, the FAA imposed temporary restrictions on flight operations there beginning in 2004 to address air traffic congestion concerns. In August 2006, the FAA issued a longer-term rule restricting flight operations at O'Hare, which remains in effect through October 2008.  

 At LaGuardia, the FAA has proposed an interim rule that would impose caps and restrictions on flight operations similar to those in effect at O'Hare. The interim rule took effect in January 2007 when the High Density Rule expired. The FAA has also proposed a longer-term rule at LaGuardia that is designed to control air traffic congestion there indefinitely. The longer-term proposal contains several  

10 

elements that could impact United's schedule and operational performance at LaGuardia. It is not possible to predict whether or when such longer-term rules might take effect.  

 In addition, in reaction to substantial flight delays and congestion in the New York City region during the summer months of 2007 and an increase in scheduled flights for summer 2008, the FAA announced plans to impose capacity limits at JFK and Newark airports beginning in the summer season 2008 and which would remain in effect through the summer season 2009. In addition, the DOT has indicated an intention to propose additional new regulations for managing airport congestion. However it is difficult at this time to predict the impact of any new legislation on the Company's operations.  

 Legislation. The airline industry is also subject to legislative activity that can have an impact on operations and costs. Specifically, the law that authorizes federal excise taxes and fees assessed on airline tickets expired in September 2007 and is currently extended until February 29, 2008. In late February 2008, Congress sent legislation to the President that would extend these federal excise taxes and fees until June 30, 2008. Congress is currently attempting to pass comprehensive reauthorization legislation to impose a new funding structure and make other changes to FAA operations. Past aviation reauthorization bills have affected a wide range of areas of interest to the industry, including air traffic control operations, capacity control issues, airline competition issues, aircraft and airport technology requirements, safety issues, taxes, fees and other funding sources.  

 Customer service issues have been a significant focus of both Congress and DOT regulators during 2007. It is likely that legislation imposing more specific customer service requirements will be approved by Congress in 2008, though what those requirements might be is unclear at this time. The DOT has also initiated processes to consider regulatory changes in this area, including proposals regarding treatment of and payments to passengers involuntarily denied boarding, and proposals regarding delay reporting requirements and airline scheduling practices.  

 On January 1, 2008, the State of New York implemented legislation requiring air carriers operating within the state to offer certain enumerated services to passengers experiencing extended on-board ground delays of greater than three hours. The New York law authorizes the state Consumer Protection Board to impose civil penalties for non-compliance. Although the Air Transport Association has filed a lawsuit challenging the New York statute on the grounds that federal law prohibits state regulation of airline services, several other states are considering similar legislation. The New York legislation and any other similar legislation if adopted in other states could have an impact on the Company's results of operations or financial condition.  

 Additionally, since September 11, 2001, aviation security has been and continues to be a subject of frequent legislative and regulatory action, requiring changes to our security processes and increasing the cost of security procedures for the Company. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the "Aviation Security Act"), enacted in November 2001, has had wide-ranging effects on our operations. The Aviation Security Act made the federal government responsible for virtually all aspects of civil aviation security, creating a new Transportation Security Administration ("TSA"), which is a part of the DHS pursuant to the Homeland Security Act of 2002. Under the Aviation Security Act, substantially all security screeners at airports are now federal employees and significant other aspects of airline and airport security are now overseen by the TSA. Pursuant to the Aviation Security Act, funding for airline and airport security is provided in part by a passenger security fee of $2.50 per flight segment (capped at $10.00 per round trip), which is collected by the air carriers from passengers and remitted to the government. In addition, air carriers are required to submit to the government an additional security fee equal to the amount each air carrier paid for security screening of passengers and property in 2000. A DHS/U.S. Customs and Border Protection ("CBP") regulation effective in early 2008 will give CBP a greater role in airline customer processing, and potentially a greater operational role, as CBP will forbid boarding international passengers until it has cleared passenger names against watch lists. A proposed TSA regulation regarding domestic passengers, "Secure Flight," currently in the rulemaking  

11 

process, is likely to expand TSA's role in similar ways when that rule becomes effective. Congress is expected to continue to focus on changes to aviation security law and requirements in 2008. Particular areas of attention that could result in increased costs for air carriers will likely include new requirements on cargo screening, possible deployment of antimissile technology on passenger aircraft and potential for increased passenger and carrier security fees.  

International Regulation.  

 General. International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. In connection with United's international services, the Company is regulated by both the U.S. government and the governments of the foreign countries United serves. In addition, the availability of international routes to U.S. carriers is regulated by treaties and related aviation agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments, and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments.  

 Airport Access. Historically, access to foreign markets has been tightly controlled through bilateral agreements between the U.S. and each foreign country involved. These agreements regulate the number of markets served, the number of carriers allowed to serve each market, and the frequency of carriers' flights. Since the early 1990s, the U.S. has pursued a policy of "open skies" (meaning all carriers have access to the destination), under which the U.S. government has negotiated a number of bilateral agreements allowing unrestricted access to foreign markets. Additionally, all of the airports that United serves in Europe and Asia maintain slot controls, and many of these are restrictive due to congestion at these airports. London Heathrow, Frankfurt and Tokyo Narita are among the most restrictive due to capacity limitations, and United has significant operations at these locations.  

 Further, United's ability to serve some countries and expand into certain others is limited by the absence altogether of aviation agreements between the U.S. government and the relevant governments. Shifts in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies can lead to the alteration or termination of air service agreements between the U.S. and other countries. Depending on the nature of the change, the value of United's international route authorities and slot rights may be materially enhanced or diminished.  

 On April 30, 2007, the U.S. and the EU signed a transatlantic aviation agreement to replace the existing bilateral arrangements between the U.S. Government and the 27 EU member states. The agreement is expected to become effective at the end of March 2008.  

 The agreement is based on the U.S. open skies model and authorizes U.S. airlines to operate between the United States and any point in the EU and beyond, free from government restrictions on capacity, frequencies and scheduling and provides EU carriers with reciprocal rights in these U.S./EU markets. The agreement also authorizes all U.S. and EU carriers to operate services between the United States and London Heathrow, thereby potentially adding new competition to United's Heathrow operation, although Heathrow is currently subject to both slot and facility constraints which may practically limit the growth of new competition in the near term. This agreement does not provide for a reallocation of existing slots among carriers.  

 Under the agreement's "Community Carrier" clause, an EU carrier may operate services to the United States from any point in the EU and not simply from its home market. A number of EU carriers have indicated that they will commence services from outside their home markets to the U.S. when the agreement becomes effective, thereby potentially increasing competition in many transatlantic markets.  

 The agreement would confer a number of additional rights to EU carriers that are designed to redress what the EU considers to be an imbalance between U.S. carrier access to the intra-EU market versus EU carrier access to the U.S. domestic market. In particular, EU ownership of more than  

12 

50 percent of a U.S. carrier will not be presumed to violate the actual control by U.S. citizens requirement, provided foreign ownership of the voting equity of the U.S. carrier does not exceed the statutory limit of 25 percent. U.S. ownership of EU carriers may not exceed 49.9 percent and the EU may enact future legislation restricting U.S. ownership of the voting stock of EU airlines to 25 percent. The agreement also provides EU passenger carriers with the right to operate between the U.S. and a limited number of non-EU countries and does not provide reciprocal rights to U.S. carriers.  

 The EU/U.S. open skies agreement will likely directly impact the future value and expected lives of route authorities to Heathrow; however, there is no direct impact from the open skies agreement on airport slot rights, including those at Heathrow. The open skies agreement is also expected to provide United and other carriers with access to new markets in EU countries. In September 2007, the DOT granted United antitrust immunity with bmi. The immunity goes into effect at the same time as the open skies agreement between the U.S. and EU at the end of March 2008. Because of the diverse nature of potential impacts on United's business from the EU transatlantic aviation agreement, the overall future impact of the agreement on United's business in the EU region cannot be predicted with certainty.  

 The European Commission (the "Commission") is expected to propose important new legislation or to adopt interpretive guidance that will impact the Company. The Commission recently proposed legislation that would significantly deregulate the current Computer Reservation System ("CRS") Code of Conduct. If adopted, this legislation may lead to lower airline distribution costs in Europe. The Commission may also take steps to officially sanction secondary slot trading, which is a current practice among carriers that involves the sale, purchase or lease of slots. If adopted, that legislation or interpretive guidance should resolve disputes about the legality of slot exchanges at EU airports and permit carriers to continue with this longstanding practice. In addition, legislation to include aviation within the EU's existing emissions trading scheme is currently being considered within the EU legislative process. If adopted, such a measure could add significantly to the costs of airlines operating in the EU member states. The precise cost to United will depend upon the terms of the legislation enacted, which would determine whether United will be forced to buy emission allowances and the cost at which these allowances may be obtained.  

 Pursuant to an agreement reached in December 2005, a full open skies agreement between the United States and Canada came into force in 2007. The DOT also approved the 9-party antitrust immunity application (including United, Air Canada, Lufthansa, SAS, Austrian, Swiss, LOT, TAP and bmi), allowing United and Air Canada to expand their existing antitrust immunity beyond the currently allowed transborder region.  

Environmental Regulation.  

 The airline industry is subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, and the management of hazardous substances, oils, and waste materials. New regulations surrounding the emission of greenhouse gases (such as carbon dioxide) are being considered for promulgation both internationally and within the United States. United is carefully evaluating the potential impact of such proposed regulations. Other areas of developing regulations include the State of California rule-makings regarding air emissions from ground support equipment and a federal rule-making concerning the discharge of deicing fluid. The airline industry is also subject to other environmental laws and regulations, including those that require the Company to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives. Compliance with all environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures. Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as "Superfund," and similar environmental cleanup laws, generators of waste materials, and owners or operators of facilities, can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions.  

13 

The Company also conducts voluntary environmental assessment and remediation actions. Environmental cleanup obligations can arise from, among other circumstances, the operation of aircraft fueling facilities, and primarily involve airport sites. Future costs associated with these activities are currently not expected to have a material adverse affect on the Company's business.  

Employees  

 As of December 31, 2007, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 55,000 active employees, of whom approximately 81% were represented by various U.S. labor organizations. The employee groups, number of employees and labor organization for each of United's collective bargaining groups were as follows:   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(1)International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers ("IAM"), Association of Flight Attendants—Communication Workers of America ("AFA"), Air Line Pilots Association ("ALPA"), Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association ("AMFA"), International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers ("IFPTE") and Professional Airline Flight Control Association ("PAFCA").  

 Collective bargaining agreements ("CBAs") are negotiated under the RLA, which governs labor relations in the air transportation industry, and such agreements typically do not contain an expiration date. Instead, they specify an amendable date, upon which the contract is considered "open for amendment." Before the amendable date, neither party is required to agree to modifications to the bargaining agreement. Nevertheless, nothing prevents the parties from agreeing to start negotiations or to modify the agreement in advance of the amendable date. Contracts remain in effect while new agreements are negotiated. During the negotiating period, both the Company and the negotiating union are required to maintain the status quo.  

 On December 4, 2007, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters ("Teamsters") filed an application with the National Mediation Board ("NMB") seeking the right to represent United's mechanics and related employees, who are currently represented by AMFA. On January 24, 2008 the NMB found that the Teamsters had submitted sufficient valid signed authorization cards from a majority of the eligible employees and ordered that a representation election be conducted. Voting will take place from February 26, 2008 through March 31, 2008. AMFA and Teamsters will appear on the ballot. Write-in votes are permitted. If a majority of eligible employees (active and furloughed) vote in favor of union representation, the union receiving a majority of the votes would be declared the representative. If a majority of the employees vote for representation, but no single organization receives a majority of the votes cast, there would be a runoff election between the two organizations receiving the most votes. If less than a majority of eligible employees cast ballots in the initial election, the employees will become unrepresented.  

14 

     ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.