ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. 

 The following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the Company's business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the Company or its representatives make from time to time. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect the Company's business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report. 

Risks Related to the Company's Business  

Continued periods of historically high fuel costs or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the Company's operating results.  

 The Company's operating results have been and continue to be significantly impacted by changes in the supply or price of aircraft fuel. It is impossible to predict the future supply or price of aircraft fuel. The record-high fuel prices in 2005 and 2006 increased further in 2007 to new record highs with the price of crude oil reaching nearly $100 per barrel. At times, United has not been able to increase its fares when fuel prices have risen due to the highly competitive nature of the airline industry, and it may not be able to do so in the future. In addition, fare increases may not totally offset the fuel price increase and may also reduce demand for air travel. From time to time, the Company enters into hedging arrangements to protect against rising fuel costs. The Company's hedging programs may not be successful in controlling fuel costs and may be limited due to market conditions and other factors.  

Additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the Company and the airline industry.  

 The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected the Company's financial condition and results of operations, as well as prospects for the airline industry generally. Among the effects experienced from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the FAA-imposed temporary grounding of the U.S. airline industry's fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and revenue per revenue passenger mile ("yield").  

 Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the Company and the airline industry. The war in Iraq and additional international hostilities, including heightened terrorist activity, could also have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The Company's financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or an increase in post-war unrest in Iraq or other international hostilities involving the United States or U.S. interests.  

The airline industry is highly competitive, susceptible to price discounting and may undergo consolidation.  

 The U.S. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic markets. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources or lower-cost structures than United does, or both. In recent years, the market share held by LCCs has increased significantly. Large network carriers, like United, have often had a lack of pricing power within domestic markets.  

 In addition, Northwest Airlines, Inc. and Delta Air Lines, Inc. completed their reorganizations under bankruptcy protection in 2007. Other carriers could file for bankruptcy or threaten to do so to reduce their costs. Carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the Company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors.  

15 

 From time to time the U.S. airline industry has undergone consolidation, as in the merger of US Airways and America West, and may experience additional consolidation in the future. United routinely monitors changes in the competitive landscape and engages in analysis and discussions regarding its strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and business combinations. There is ongoing speculation that some type of airline industry consolidation could occur in the near-term. The Company has had, and expects to continue to have, discussions with other airlines regarding strategic alternatives. If other airlines participate in merger activity, and United does not, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of United.  

Additional security requirements may increase the Company's costs and decrease its revenues and traffic.  

 Since September 11, 2001, the DHS and the TSA have implemented numerous security measures that affect airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures in the future. In addition, foreign governments have also instituted additional security measures at foreign airports United serves. A substantial portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines and their passengers, increasing the Company's costs and/or reducing its revenue and traffic. Additional measures taken to enhance either passenger or cargo security procedures and/or to recover associated costs in the future may result in similar adverse effects on United's results of operations.  

Extensive government regulation could increase the Company's operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business.  

 Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant costs. In addition to the enactment of the Aviation Security Act, laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. The FAA from time to time also issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures by United. The Company expects to continue incurring material expenses to comply with the regulations of the FAA and other agencies.  

 United operates under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT. If the DOT altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked our certificate, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. The FAA can also limit United's airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at "high density traffic airports" and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to such facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the Company's business.  

 In addition, access to landing and take-off rights or "slots" at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by United are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. As passenger travel has continued to increase in recent years, many U.S. and foreign airports have become increasingly congested. Certain of United's major hubs are among the more congested airports in the U.S. and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day.  

 In addition, the Company's operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing outdated air traffic control ("ATC") system utilized by the U.S. government. During peak travel periods in certain markets the current ATC system's inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies as discussed above, and has also resulted in delays and disruptions of traffic using the ATC system. In addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. Therefore, imposition of these air traffic constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to update the ATC system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a  

16 

modernized ATC system that may be imposed on carriers like United, may have an adverse impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.  

 Many aspects of United's operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws protecting the environment. Future regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. For example, potential future actions that may be taken by the U.S. government, state governments within the U.S., foreign governments, or the International Civil Aviation Organization to limit the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry are uncertain at this time, but the impact to the Company and its industry would likely be adverse and could be significant including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees or a requirement to purchase carbon credits.  

 The ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. United currently operates on a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of carriers, capacity, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. If an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related intangible assets. Recently, the U.S. and the EU entered into an "open skies" agreement that will become effective at the end of March 2008. See Note 8, "Intangibles," in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the open skies agreement.  

 Further, the Company's operations in foreign countries are subject to various laws and regulations in those countries. The Company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations.  

The Company's results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry.  

 Due to greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. The Company's results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors and general economic conditions. As a result, the Company's quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.  

The Company's financial condition and results of operations may be further affected by the future resolution of bankruptcy-related contingencies.  

 Despite the Company's exit from bankruptcy on February 1, 2006, several significant matters remain to be resolved in connection with its reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. For additional detail regarding these matters, see Note 1, "Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11Significant Matters Remaining to be Resolved in Chapter 11 Cases," in the  Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

17 

The Company's initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce costs, increase its revenues and increase shareholder value may not be adequate or successful.  

 The Company continues to identify and implement continuous improvement programs to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase its revenues. Some of these efforts are focused on cost savings in such areas as telecommunications, airport services, catering, maintenance materials, aircraft ground handling and regional affiliates expenses, among others. The Company is also reviewing strategic alternatives to maximize the value of its MRO and Mileage Plus businesses, which may include a possible sale of all, or part of, these operations. A number of the Company's ongoing initiatives involve significant changes to the Company's business that it may be unable to implement successfully. In addition, revenue and other initiatives may not be successful due to the competitive landscape of the industry and the reaction of our competitors to certain of our initiatives. The adequacy and ultimate success of the Company's programs and initiatives to improve the delivery of its products and services to its customers, reduce its costs and increase both its revenues and shareholder value cannot be assured. There can be no assurance that any transactions with respect to the Company's MRO and Mileage Plus business will occur, nor are there any assurances with respect to the form or timing of any such transactions or their actual effect on shareholder value.  

Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect the Company's operations and impair its financial performance.  

 Approximately 81% of the employees of UAL are represented for collective bargaining purposes by U.S. labor unions. These employees are organized into six labor groups represented by six different unions.  

 Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the United States are governed by the RLA. Under the RLA, a carrier must maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the NMB. This process continues until either the parties have reached agreement on a new CBA or the parties are released to "self-help" by the NMB. Although in most circumstances the RLA prohibits strikes, shortly after release by the NMB carriers and unions are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lock-outs. All six of the Company's U.S. labor agreements become amendable in January 2010. There is also a risk that dissatisfied employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in illegal slow-downs, work stoppages, partial work stoppages, sick-outs or other actions short of a full strike that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline and materially impair its financial performance.  

Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the Company's operations and financial results.  

 The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines. Accordingly, the Company's insurance costs increased significantly and its ability to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. The Company has obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if it had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. Should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate war risk insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected.  

 If any of United's aircraft were to be involved in an accident, the Company could be exposed to significant liability. The insurance it carries to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be  

18 

inadequate. If the Company's insurance is not adequate, it may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident.  

The Company relies heavily on automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure of these systems could harm its business.  

 The Company depends on automated systems to operate its business, including its computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including united.com. United's website and reservation systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. Substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of United's services versus its competitors and materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights.  

The Company's business relies extensively on third-party providers. Failure of these parties to perform as expected, or unexpected interruptions in the Company's relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the Company, could have an adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.  

 The Company has engaged a growing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, such as operation of United Express flights, operation of customer service call centers, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. The Company does not directly control these third-party providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. Any of these third-party providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the Company. The failure of these providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other unexpected interruptions of services, may reduce the Company's revenues and increase its expenses or prevent United from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. In addition, the Company's business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory.  

The Company's high level of fixed obligations could limit its ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, could limit its flexibility in responding to competitive developments and could increase its vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.  

 The Company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including its amended credit facility, aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, the Company had pledged a substantial majority of its available assets as collateral to secure its various fixed obligations. At December 31, 2007, the Company has 113 unencumbered aircraft with a net book value of $2.0 billion.  

 The Company's high level of fixed obligations, a downgrade in the Company's credit ratings or poor credit market conditions could impair its ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and reduce its flexibility to conduct its business. Certain of the Company's existing indebtedness also requires it to meet covenants and financial tests to maintain ongoing access to those borrowings. See Note 12, "Debt Obligations," in the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. A failure to timely pay its debts or other material uncured breach of its contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of the Company's indebtedness, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers and the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in material adverse effects on the Company's operations and financial condition. In such a situation, it is unlikely that the  

19 

Company would be able to fulfill its obligations to repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments, or otherwise cover its fixed costs.  

The Company's net operating loss carry forward may be limited or possibly eliminated.  

 The Company has a net operating loss ("NOL") carry forward tax benefit of approximately $2.5 billion for federal and state income tax purposes that primarily originated before UAL's emergence from bankruptcy and will expire over a five to twenty year period. This tax benefit is mostly attributable to federal pre-tax NOL carry forwards of $6.6 billion. If the Company were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, under certain conditions, its annual federal NOL utilization could be limited to an amount equal to its market capitalization at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate. A change of ownership under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code is defined as a cumulative change of 50 percentage points or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders owning 5% or more of the Company's common stock over a three year rolling period.  

 To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the Company's ability to utilize its NOL carry forward for federal income tax purposes, UAL's restated certificate of incorporation contains a "5% Ownership Limitation," applicable to all stockholders except the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC"). The 5% Ownership Limitation remains effective until February 1, 2011. The 5% Ownership Limitation prohibits (i) the acquisition by a single stockholder of shares representing 5% or more of the common stock of UAL Corporation and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of UAL Corporation's common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the UAL Board of Directors. The percentage ownership of a single stockholder can be computed by dividing the number of shares of common stock held by the stockholder by the sum of the shares of common stock issued and outstanding plus the number of shares of common stock still held in reserve for payment to unsecured creditors under the Plan of Reorganization. For additional information regarding the 5% Ownership Limitation, please refer to UAL's restated certificate available on its website.  

 While the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent a change of ownership from occurring within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (which ownership change might materially and adversely affect the Company's ability to utilize its NOL carry forward or other tax attributes), no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case the availability of the Company's substantial NOL carry forward and other federal income tax attributes might be significantly limited or possibly eliminated.  

The Company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally.  

 The Company is a global business with operations outside of the United States from which it derives approximately one-third of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the DOT. The Company's operations in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Europe are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. Volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the Company's operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. In addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions may have a material adverse impact upon the Company's liquidity, revenues, costs, or operating results.  

The loss of skilled employees upon whom the Company depends to operate its business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect its results of operations.  

 The Company believes that its future success will depend in large part on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, operational, technical and other personnel. The Company may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining other highly qualified personnel.  

20 

Any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect its business.  

The Company could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior.  

 An outbreak of a disease that affects travel demand or travel behavior, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome ("SARS") or avian flu, or other illness, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Certain provisions of UAL's Governance Documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the Board of Directors of UAL.  

 Certain provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws of UAL (the "Governance Documents") may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of UAL's Board of Directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial.  

 Certain provisions of the Governance Documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if UAL's Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of UAL and its stockholders.  

 These provisions of the Governance Documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of UAL's stockholders' interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of UAL to negotiate with the UAL Board of Directors, they could enable the Board of Directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.  

The issuance of UAL's contingent senior unsecured notes could adversely impact results of operations, liquidity and financial position and could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders.  

 In connection with the Company's emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, UAL is obligated under an indenture to issue to the PBGC 8% senior unsecured notes with an aggregate principal amount of up to $500 million in up to eight equal tranches of $62.5 million (with no more than one tranche issued as a result of each issuance trigger event) upon the occurrence of certain financial triggering events. An issuance trigger event occurs when the Company's EBITDAR (as defined in the indenture) exceeds $3.5 billion over the prior twelve months ending June 30 or December 31 of any applicable fiscal year, beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009 and ending with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017. However, if the issuance of a tranche would cause a default under any other securities then existing, UAL may satisfy its obligations with respect to such tranche by issuing UAL common stock having a market value equal to $62.5 million. The issuance of these notes could adversely impact the Company's results of operations because of increased interest expense related to the notes and adversely impact its financial position or liquidity due to increased cash required to meet interest and principal payments. If common stock is issued in lieu of debt, this could cause additional dilution to existing UAL stockholders. See Risks Related to UAL's Common Stock, below, for additional information regarding other risks related to our common stock.  

Risks Related to UAL's Common Stock  

UAL's common stock has a limited trading history and its market price may be volatile.  

 Because UAL's common stock began trading on the NASDAQ National Market on February 2, 2006, there is limited trading history. The market price of its common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond UAL's control.  

21 

The issuance of additional shares of UAL's common stock, including upon conversion of its convertible preferred stock and its convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders.  

 In connection with the Company's emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, UAL issued 5,000,000 shares of 2% convertible preferred stock. Effective February 1, 2008, this preferred stock may be converted into shares of UAL's common stock. Further, the preferred stock is mandatorily convertible 15 years from the issuance date. UAL also issued approximately $150 million in convertible 5% notes shortly after the Effective Date, and subsequently issued approximately $726 million in convertible 4.5% notes on July 25, 2006. Holders of these securities may convert them into shares of UAL's common stock according to their terms. In February 2008, 1.0 million shares of 2% convertible preferred stock were converted into approximately 2.2 million shares of UAL common stock resulting in dilution to common stockholders. If the holders of the remaining 4.0 million shares of convertible preferred stock or the holders of the convertible notes were to exercise their rights to convert their securities into common stock, it could cause substantial dilution to existing stockholders. In January 2008, as a result of UAL's $2.15 per common share special distribution, UAL modified the conversion prices of the 5% and 4.5% notes in accordance with the terms of their indentures. The lower conversion prices increase the potential dilution to existing UAL stockholders. UAL may undertake future actions that may result in additional modifications to the conversion prices of these instruments and increase their likelihood of conversion. For further information, see Note 12, "Debt Obligations" and Note 13, "UAL Preferred Stock," in the  Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 UAL's certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. In certain circumstances, UAL can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. In addition, the board of directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of UAL's stockholders. The UAL Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over UAL's common stock with respect to dividends or if UAL liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. If UAL issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if UAL issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected. UAL is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. In the future UAL may decide to raise capital through offerings of its common stock, securities convertible into its common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock could result in dilution of existing stockholders' equity interests in UAL. Issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for UAL's common stock and UAL cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock.  

UAL's certificate of incorporation limits voting rights of certain foreign persons.  

 UAL's restated certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of persons holding any of UAL's equity securities who are not "citizens of the United States," as defined in Section 40102(a)(15) of Title 49 United States Code, to 24.9% of the aggregate votes of all equity securities outstanding. This restriction is applied pro rata among all holders of equity securities who fail to qualify as "citizens of the United States," based on the number of votes the underlying securities are entitled to.  

     ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. 

 None.  

22 

     ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.