ITEM 1A. Risk Factors 

In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the risks described below that we believe may be material to investors in evaluating the Company. This section contains forward-looking statements, and in considering these statements, you should refer to the qualifications and limitations on our forward-looking statements that are described in Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of Item 1. 

Since our business consists primarily of acquiring and operating real estate, we are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. 

The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership. Since we derive substantially all of our income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of acquiring and owning real estate-related assets, including:  

  •    lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale;     

  •    changes in general economic or local conditions;     

  •    natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods; which could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage;     

  •    potential terrorist attacks;     

  •    changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing facilities in an area;     

  •    the impact of environmental protection laws;     

  •    changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds which may render the sale of a nonstrategic property difficult or unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit markets;     

  •    increases in insurance premiums, property tax assessments and other operating and maintenance expenses;    

  •    transactional costs and liabilities, including transfer taxes;    

  •    adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; and     

  •    tenant and employment-related claims.     

In addition, we self-insure certain of our property loss, liability, and workers compensation risks for which other real estate companies may use third-party insurers. This results in a higher risk of losses that are not covered by third-party insurance contracts, as described in Note 13 under “Insurance and Loss Exposure” to our December 31, 2011 financial statements. 

There is significant competition among self-storage facilities and from other storage alternatives. Most of our properties are self-storage facilities, which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. Local market conditions play a significant part in how competition will affect us. Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located is significant and has affected our occupancy levels, rental rates and operating expenses. Any increase in availability of funds for investment in real estate may accelerate competition. Further development of self-storage facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage facilities in the market areas in which we operate. 

11 

We may incur significant environmental costs and liabilities. As an owner and operator of real properties, we may be required by law to clean up hazardous substances at our properties. Certain laws impose liability whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous substances. Liability is usually not limited to the value of the property. The presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate any resulting contamination, also may adversely affect our ability to sell, lease, operate, or encumber affected facilities. 

We have evaluated the environmental condition of, and potential liabilities associated with, most of our properties by conducting preliminary environmental assessments. These assessments generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis), as well as a review of publicly available information regarding the site and other properties in the vicinity. As a result, we have become aware that prior activities at some facilities (or migration from nearby properties) have or may have resulted in contamination to the soil or groundwater at these facilities. When purchasing new properties, if we become aware of potential or actual contamination, we may attempt to obtain purchase price adjustments, indemnifications or environmental insurance coverage. We cannot assure you that such protections, if obtained, will always be sufficient to cover actual future liabilities nor that our assessments have identified all such risks. Although we cannot provide any assurance, we are not aware of any environmental contamination of our facilities material to our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. 

There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners and managers of rental properties relating to moisture infiltration, which can result in mold or other property damage. When we receive a complaint or otherwise become aware that an air quality concern exists, we implement corrective measures and seek to work proactively with our tenants to resolve issues, subject to our contractual limitations on liability for such claims. However, we can give no assurance that material legal claims relating to moisture infiltration and the presence of, or exposure to, mold will not arise in the future. 

Delays in development and fill-up of our properties would reduce our profitability. Development of self-storage facilities is subject to significant risks. Construction and opening of these facilities can be delayed or increase in cost due to changes in or failure to meet government or regulatory requirements, weather issues, unforeseen site conditions, personnel problems, and other factors. Once newly developed facilities are opened, rent-up of the newly developed space can be delayed or ongoing cash flow yields can be reduced due to competition, reductions in storage demand, or other factors. While we or Shurgard Europe are not currently planning to develop additional facilities in the short-run, if we or Shurgard Europe were to commence significant development of facilities, our exposure to development and fill-up risks would increase. 

Property taxes can increase and cause a decline in yields on investments. Each of our properties is subject to real property taxes, which could increase in the future as property tax rates change and as our properties are assessed or reassessed by tax authorities. Recent local government shortfalls in tax revenue may cause pressure to increase tax rates or assessment levels or impose new taxes. Such increases could adversely impact our profitability. 

We must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire and safety regulations, which can require significant expenditures. All our properties must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and with related regulations (the “ADA”) and similar state law requirements. A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state laws could lead to government imposed fines on us and/or litigation, which could also involve an award of damages to individuals affected by the non-compliance. In addition, we must operate our properties in compliance with numerous local fire and safety regulations, building codes, and other land use regulations. Compliance with these requirements can require us to spend substantial amounts of money, which would reduce cash otherwise available for distribution to shareholders. Failure to comply with these requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities. 

We incur liability from tenant and employment-related claims. From time to time we have to make monetary settlements or defend actions or arbitration (including class actions) to resolve tenant or employment-related claims and disputes. 

12 

Global economic conditions adversely affect our business, financial condition, growth and access to capital. 

There continues to be global economic uncertainty, elevated levels of unemployment, reduced levels of economic activity, and it is uncertain as to when economic conditions will improve. These negative economic conditions in the markets where we operate facilities, and other events or factors that adversely affect demand for storage space, could continue to adversely affect our business. 

Our ability to issue preferred shares or other sources of capital, such has borrowing, has been in the past, and may in the future, be adversely affected by challenging credit market conditions. The issuance of perpetual preferred securities historically has been a significant source of capital to grow our business. We believe that we have sufficient working capital and capacity under our credit facilities and our retained cash flow from operations to continue to operate our business as usual and meet our current obligations. However, if we were unable to issue preferred shares or borrow at reasonable rates, that could limit the earnings growth that might otherwise result from the acquisition and development of real estate facilities. 

The acquisition of existing properties is a significant component of our long-term growth strategy, and acquisitions of existing properties are subject to risks that may adversely affect our growth and financial results. 

We acquire existing properties, either in individual transactions or as part of the acquisition of other storage operators. In addition to the general risks related to real estate described above, we are also subject to the following risks which may jeopardize our realization of benefits from acquisitions. 

Any failure to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions and to successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing business could negatively impact our financial results. To fully realize anticipated earnings from an acquisition, we must successfully integrate the property into our operating platform. Failures or unexpected circumstances in the integration process, such as a failure to maintain existing relationships with tenants and employees due to changes in processes, standards, or compensation arrangements, or circumstances we did not detect during due diligence, could jeopardize realization of the anticipated earnings. 

Acquired properties are subject to property tax reappraisals which may increase our property tax expense. Facilities that we acquire are subject to property tax reappraisal which can result in substantial increases to the ongoing property taxes paid by the seller. The reappraisal process is subject to judgment of governmental agencies regarding estimated real estate values and other factors, and as a result there is a significant degree of uncertainty in estimating the property tax expense of an acquired property. In connection with future or recent acquisitions of properties, if our estimates of property taxes following reappraisal are too low, we may not realize anticipated earnings from an acquisition. 

13 

As a result of our ownership of 49% of the international operations of Shurgard Europe with a book value of $375.5 million at December 31, 2011, and our loan to Shurgard Europe aggregating $402.7 million at December 31, 2011, we are exposed to additional risks related to international businesses that may adversely impact our business and financial results. 

We have limited experience in European operations, which may adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in Europe. In addition, European operations have inherent risks, including without limitation the following: 

  ·    currency risks, including currency fluctuations, which can impact the fair value of our equity investment in Shurgard Europe, as well as interest payments and the net proceeds to be received upon repayment of our loan to Shurgard Europe;    

  ·    unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements,    

  ·    potentially adverse tax burdens;    

  ·    burdens of complying with different permitting standards, environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws;    

  ·    the potential impact of collective bargaining;    

  ·    obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash;    

  ·    regional, national and local political uncertainty;    

  ·    economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets;    

  ·    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;    

  ·    reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries;    

  ·    inability to effectively control less than wholly-owned partnerships and joint ventures; and    

  ·    the importance of local senior management and the potential negative ramifications of the departure of key executives.    

The following additional specific risks apply with respect to our interest in and loan to Shurgard Europe: 

  ·    Shurgard Europe has debt outstanding that will be repaid before our loan: Shurgard Europe has a loan outstanding to Wells Fargo totaling $274.4 million (€211.9 million) at December 31, 2011. While our loan participates pari passu with the Wells Fargo loan in a liquidation of Shurgard Europe, the Wells Fargo loan is due on November 2014, while our loan to Shurgard Europe matures in February 2015. In addition, Shurgard Europe is obligated to utilize most of its available cash flow to make principal payments on the Wells Fargo loan, which limits the principal payments that could otherwise be made on our loan. As a result, the Wells Fargo Loan will be repaid prior to our loan.    

14 

  ·    Shurgard Europe’s ability to repay its loan from us and Wells Fargo may be limited due to market conditions. If Shurgard Europe’s available cash flow significantly declines and it is unable to obtain financing at a reasonable cost of capital due to a constrained equity or credit environment, negative operating trends, or other factors, it may not be able to repay either the Wells Fargo loan, or our loan. In such a circumstance, we may have to pursue less advantageous options, such as an additional equity contribution or loan, extending the maturity date of our loan, or exercising our lender rights. We have in the past extended the maturity date of our loan to Shurgard Europe, most recently to February 2015 from March 2013.    

  ·    Shurgard Europe’s Same Store revenues have decreased in the past, and have recently exhibited negative trends.  While Shurgard Europe had positive Same Store revenue growth in 2010 and 2011, the growth in Same Store revenue decreased to 1.3% in 2011 from 3.0% in 2010, and it had negative revenue growth in 2009 and could have reductions in revenue in the future. Such reductions may negatively impact Shurgard Europe’s liquidity and ability to repay its debts (including the debt owed to us), due to declining interest coverage ratios and other metrics which affect the availability and cost of capital, as well as reduce the value of our investment in Shurgard Europe.    

We are subject to risks related to our ownership of assets in joint venture structures, most notably our investment in Shurgard Europe: 

Ownership of assets in joint ventures may present additional risks, including without limitation, the following: 

  ·    risks related to the financial strength, common business goals and strategies and cooperation of the venture partner;    

  ·    the inability to take some actions with respect to the joint venture activities that we may believe are favorable, if our joint venture partner does not agree;    

  ·    the risk that we could lose our REIT status based upon actions of the joint ventures if we are unable to effectively control these indirect investments;    

  ·    the risk that we may not control the legal entity that has title to the real estate;    

  ·    the risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders, or that lenders may view assets held in joint ventures as less favorable as collateral;    

  ·    the risk that the joint ventures could take actions which may negatively impact our preferred shares and debt ratings, to the extent that we could not prevent these actions;    

  ·    the risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own that we would otherwise deem favorable, due to non-compete clauses in our joint venture arrangements; and    

  ·    the risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with our joint venture partners.    

The Hughes Family could control us and take actions adverse to other shareholders.  

At December 31, 2011, B. Wayne Hughes, former Chairman and current member of the Board of Trustees and his family (the “Hughes Family”) owned approximately 16.7% of our aggregate outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to own up to 47.66% of our outstanding common shares. Consequently, the Hughes Family may significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders, including electing trustees, amending our organizational documents, dissolving and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders. 

15 

Certain provisions of Maryland law and in our declaration of trust and bylaws may prevent changes in control or otherwise discourage takeover attempts beneficial to shareholders. 

Certain provisions of Maryland law may have the effect of deterring a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. Currently, the Board has opted not to subject the Company to the statutory limitations of either the business combination provisions or the control share acquisitions provisions of Maryland law, but the Board may change this option as to either statute in the future. If the Board chooses to make them applicable to us, these provisions could delay, deter or prevent a transaction or change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of common shares or might otherwise be in their best interest. Similarly, (1) limitations on removal of trustees in our declaration of trust, (2) restrictions on the acquisition of our shares of beneficial interest, (3) the power to issue additional common shares, preferred shares or equity shares, (4) the advance notice provisions of our bylaws and (5) the Board’s ability under Maryland law, without obtaining shareholder approval, to implement takeover defenses that we may not yet have and to take, or refrain from taking, other actions without those decisions being subject to any heightened standard of conduct or standard of review, could have the same effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for holders of the common shares or might otherwise be in common shareholders’ best interest. 

To preserve our status as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), our declaration of trust contains limitations on the number and value of shares of beneficial interest that any person may own. These ownership limitations generally limit the ability of a person, other than the Hughes Family (as defined in our declaration of trust) and other than “designated investment entities” (as defined in our declaration of trust), to own more than 3% of our outstanding common shares or 9.9% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of preferred or equity shares, in each case, in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, unless an exemption is granted by our board of trustees. These limitations could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees. 

If we failed to qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of dividends. 

Investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a REIT for income tax purposes. REITs are subject to a range of complex organizational and operational requirements. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our shareholders. Other restrictions apply to our income and assets. Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing qualification of our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a result of our substantial ownership interest in that company. 

For any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a REIT and are unable to avail ourselves of relief provisions set forth in the Code, we would be subject to federal income tax at the regular corporate rates on all of our taxable income, whether or not we make any distributions to our shareholders. Those taxes would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders or for reinvestment and would adversely affect our earnings. As a result, our failure to qualify as a REIT during any taxable year could have a material adverse effect upon us and our shareholders. Furthermore, unless certain relief provisions apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we fail to qualify. 

We may pay some taxes, reducing cash available for shareholders. 

Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay some federal, foreign, state and local taxes on our income and property. Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate subsidiaries of the Company have elected to be treated as “taxable REIT subsidiaries” of the Company for federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT subsidiary is taxable as a regular corporation and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us in excess of a certain amount. In addition, to the extent that amounts paid to us by our taxable REIT subsidiaries are in excess of amounts that would be paid under similar arrangements among unrelated parties, we could be subject to a 100% penalty tax on the excess payments. To the extent that the Company is required to pay federal, foreign, state or local taxes or federal penalty taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to shareholders. 

16 

We have become increasingly dependent upon automated processes, telecommunications, and the Internet and are faced with system security and system failure risks. 

We have become increasingly centralized and dependent upon automated information technology processes, and certain critical components of our operating systems are dependent upon third party providers. As a result, we could be severely impacted by a catastrophic occurrence, such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack, or a circumstance that disrupted operations at our third party providers. Even though we believe we utilize appropriate duplication and back-up procedures, a significant outage in our third party providers could negatively impact our operations. In addition, an increasing portion of our business operations are conducted over the Internet, increasing the risk of viruses and other related risks that could cause system failures and disruptions of operations. Experienced computer programmers may be able to undertake a “cyber-attack” and penetrate our network security and misappropriate our confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns, which could result in additional costs or legal liability to us. Nearly half of our new tenants come from sales channels dependent upon telecommunications (telephone or Internet). 

We have no ownership interest in Canadian self-storage facilities owned or operated by the Hughes Family. 

At December 31, 2011, the Hughes Family had ownership interests in, and operated, 53 self-storage facilities in Canada under the name “Public Storage”, which name we license to the Hughes Family for use in Canada on a royalty-free, non-exclusive basis. We currently do not own any interests in these facilities nor do we own any facilities in Canada. We have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the corporation engaged in the operation of the self-storage facilities in Canada if the Hughes Family or the corporation agrees to sell them. However, we have no ownership interest in the operations of this corporation, have no right to acquire their stock or assets unless the Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit from the profits and increases in value of the Canadian self-storage facilities. Although we have no current plans to enter the Canadian self-storage market, if we choose to do so without acquiring the Hughes Family interests in their Canadian self-storage properties, our right to use the Public Storage name in Canada may be shared with the Hughes Family unless we are able to terminate the license agreement. 

Through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of goods stored by tenants in the self-storage facilities in Canada in which the Hughes Family has ownership interests. We acquired the tenant insurance business on December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS Insurance Company, or PSICH. During each of the three years ended December 31, 2011, we received $0.6 million, respectively, in reinsurance premiums attributable to the Canadian facilities. Since PSICH’s right to provide tenant reinsurance to the Canadian Facilities may be qualified, there is no assurance that these premiums will continue. 

We are subject to laws and governmental regulations and actions that affect our operating results and financial condition. 

Our business is subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies including those imposed by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and New York Stock Exchange, as well as applicable labor laws. Although we have policies and procedures designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, failure to comply with the various laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased costs of compliance and restatement of our financial statements. 

There can also be no assurance that, in response to current economic conditions or the current political environment or otherwise, laws and regulations will not be implemented or changed in ways that adversely affect our operating results and financial condition, such as recently adopted legislation that expands health care coverage costs or facilitates union activity or federal legislative proposals to otherwise increase operating costs. 

17 

Our tenant insurance business is subject to governmental regulation which could reduce our profitability or limit our growth. 

We hold Limited Lines Self-Service Storage Insurance Agent licenses from a number of individual state Departments of Insurance and are subject to state governmental regulation and supervision. Our continued ability to maintain these Limited Lines Self-Service Storage Insurance Agent licenses in the jurisdictions in which we are licensed depends on our compliance with related rules and regulations. The regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction generally have broad discretion to grant, renew and revoke licenses and approvals, to promulgate, interpret, and implement regulations, and to evaluate compliance with regulations through periodic examinations, audits and investigations of the affairs of insurance agents. As a result of regulatory or private action in any jurisdiction, we may be precluded or temporarily suspended from carrying on some or all of our reinsurance activities, including those activities we have conducted in the past, or otherwise fined or penalized or suffer an adverse judgment in a given jurisdiction. For the year ended December 31, 2011, revenues from our tenant reinsurance business represented approximately 4% of our revenues. 

Terrorist attacks and the possibility of wider armed conflict may have an adverse impact on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. 

There is the risk of terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war against the U.S., the European Community, or their businesses or interests, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or more of our properties could significantly affect our ability to operate those properties and thereby impair our operating results. Further, we may not have insurance coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack. Such insurance may not be available, or if it is available and we decide to obtain such terrorist coverage, the cost for the insurance may be significant in relationship to the risk overall. In addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the U.S. to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results. 

Developments in California may have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. 

We are headquartered in, and approximately one-fifth of our properties in the U.S. are located in, California, which like many other state and local jurisdictions is facing severe budgetary problems and deficits. Action that may be taken in response to these problems, such as increases in property taxes, changes to sales taxes, adoption of a proposed “Business Net Receipts Tax” or other governmental efforts to raise revenues could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 

18 

ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 

Not applicable. 

19 

ITEM 2. Properties