PART I 

  ITEM 1.   Business    

Forward Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements in this document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements which may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "would," "should," "may," "estimates" and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause our actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. As a result, you should not rely on any forward-looking statements in this report, or which management may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements. All of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement. 

Factors and risks that may impact our future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the following: 

  ·    general risks associated with the ownership and operation of real estate including changes in demand, potential liability for environmental contamination, natural disasters, and adverse changes in laws and regulations governing property tax, real estate and zoning;    

  ·    risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in the markets in which we operate, including risks related to current economic conditions and the economic health of our tenants;    

  ·    the impact of competition from new and existing self-storage and commercial facilities and other storage alternatives;    

  ·    difficulties in our ability to successfully evaluate, finance, integrate into our existing operations, and manage acquired and developed properties;    

  ·    risks associated with international operations including, but not limited to, unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations and local and global economic uncertainty that could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows;    

  ·    risks related to our participation in joint ventures;    

  ·    the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state, and local laws and regulations including, without limitation, those governing environmental, tax and tenant insurance matters and real estate investment trusts (“REITs”), and risks related to the impact of new laws and regulations;    

  ·    risk of increased tax expense associated either with a possible failure by us to qualify as a REIT, or with challenges to intercompany transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiaries;    

  ·    disruptions or shutdowns of our automated processes and systems or breaches of our data security;    

  ·    difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost; and    

3 

  ·    economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism.     

We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this document, except where required by law. Accordingly, you should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements to anticipate future results. 

General 

Public Storage was organized in 1980. Effective June 1, 2007, we reorganized Public Storage, Inc. into Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”, “the Trust”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”). Our principal business activities include the acquisition, development, ownership and operation of self-storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease, generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use, and we also have equity interests in commercial facilities. 

At December 31, 2011, our operating segments are comprised of the following: 

  (i)    Domestic Self-Storage: This segment comprises our direct and indirect equity interests in 2,058 self-storage facilities (131 million net rentable square feet of space) located in 38 states within the United States (“U.S.”) operating under the “Public Storage” brand name. We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in the U.S.    

  (ii)    European Self-Storage: This segment comprises our 49% equity interest in Shurgard Europe, a private company that we believe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Western Europe. Shurgard Europe owns 188 self-storage facilities (10 million net rentable square feet of space) located in seven countries in Western Europe which operate under the “Shurgard” brand name manages one facility located in the United Kingdom that is wholly-owned by Public Storage.    

  (iii)    Commercial: This segment is primarily composed of our 42% equity interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), (see Note 4 to our December 31, 2011 financial statements for more information regarding our ownership interest). PSB’s business activities primarily include the ownership and operation of 27 million net rentable square feet of commercial space. We also wholly-own one million net rentable square feet of commercial space that is managed by PSB.    

We conduct certain other activities that are not allocated to any segment, due to their relatively insignificant scale and dissimilarity in operating characteristics to our existing segments, including: (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage facilities, (ii) the sale of merchandise at our self-storage facilities and (iii) management of self-storage facilities owned by third-party owners and entities that we have an ownership interest in but are not consolidated. 

For all taxable years subsequent to 1980, we qualified and intend to continue to qualify as a REIT, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, we do not incur federal or significant state tax on that portion of our taxable income which is distributed to our shareholders, provided that we meet certain tests. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be subject to tax, with certain limited exceptions, on the taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders. 

We report annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial statements certified by our independent registered public accountants. We have also reported quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements with such filings. We expect to continue such reporting. 

On our website, www.publicstorage.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

4 

Competition 

Self-storage facilities generally draw customers located within a three to five mile radius. Many of our facilities operate within three to five miles of well-located and well-managed competitors who utilize many of the same marketing channels we use, including yellow page and Internet advertising, as well as signage and banners. As a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities. 

While competition is significant, the self-storage industry remains fragmented in the U.S. We believe that we own approximately 5% of the aggregate self-storage square footage in the U.S., and that collectively the five largest self-storage operators in the U.S. own approximately 10% of the aggregate self-storage space in the U.S., with the remaining 90% owned by numerous private regional and local operators. This market fragmentation enhances the advantage of our economies of scale and our brand relative to other operators, and provides an opportunity for growth through acquisitions over the long term. 

In seeking investments, we compete with a wide variety of institutions and other investors who also view self-storage facilities as attractive investments. The amount of capital available for real estate investments greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments. 

Business Attributes 

We believe that we possess several primary business attributes that permit us to compete effectively: 

Centralized information networks: Our facilities are part of a comprehensive centralized reporting and information network which enables our management team to identify changing market conditions and operating trends as well as analyze customer data, and quickly change our properties’ pricing and promotional discounting on an automated basis. 

National Telephone Reservation System: Customers calling either the toll-free telephone referral system, (800) 44-STORE, or a particular storage facility, are directed to our centralized telephone reservation system. The sales representatives in the call center are sales specialists. These sales representatives discuss space requirements, location preferences, and price constraints with the prospective customer, and seek to meet those requirements with all our available space in the area, as well as other products and services we provide, in more consistent and comprehensive manner than an on-site property manager. We believe the centralized telephone reservation system provides added customer service and helps to maximize utilization of available self-storage space relative to using the self-storage property managers to process our incoming sales inquiries. 

On-line reservation and marketing system: We also provide customers the ability to review space availability, pricing, and make reservations online through our website, www.publicstorage.com. We invest extensively in advertising on the Internet, primarily through the use of search engines, and we regularly update and improve our web site to enhance its productivity. 

Economies of scale: We are the largest provider of self-storage space in the U.S. As of December 31, 2011, we operated 2,058 self-storage facilities in which we had an interest with over one million self-storage spaces rented. These facilities are generally located in major markets within 38 states in the U.S. The size and scope of our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many functions with specialists, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation and benefits programs, revenue management, as well as the development and documentation of standardized operating procedures. We also believe that our major market concentration provides managerial efficiencies stemming from having a large number of facilities in close proximity to each other. 

5 

Our market share and concentration in major metropolitan centers makes various promotional and media programs more cost-beneficial for us than for our competitors. We can economically purchase large, prominent, well-placed yellow page ads that allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller operators. Our large market share and well-recognized brand name increases the likelihood that our facilities will appear prominently in unpaid search results in Google and other search engines, and enhances the efficiency of our bidding for paid multiple-keyword advertising. We can use television advertising in many markets, while most of our competitors cannot do so cost-effectively. 

Brand name recognition: We believe that the “Public Storage” brand name is the most recognized and established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S, due to our national reach in major markets in 38 states, and our highly visible facilities, with their orange colored doors and signage, that are located principally in heavily populated areas. We believe that the “Shurgard” brand, used by Shurgard Europe, is a similarly established and valuable brand in Europe. 

Complementary ancillary operations: We also sell retail items associated with self-storage such as locks, cardboard boxes, and packing supplies, and we reinsure policies issued to our tenants against lost or damaged goods stored by our tenants. We believe these activities supplement our existing self-storage business by further meeting the needs of our customers. 

Growth and Investment Strategies 

Our growth strategies consist of: (i) improving the operating performance of our existing self-storage facilities, (ii) acquiring more facilities, (iii) developing or redeveloping existing real estate facilities, (iv) participating in the growth of commercial facilities, primarily through our investment in PSB, and (v) participating in the growth of Shurgard Europe. While our long-term strategy includes each of these elements, in the short run the level of growth in our asset base in any period is dependent upon the cost and availability of capital, as well as the relative attractiveness of investment alternatives. 

Improve the operating performance of existing facilities: We seek to increase the net cash flow generated by our existing self-storage facilities by a) regularly evaluating our call volume, reservation activity, and move-in/move-out rates for each of our facilities relative to our marketing activities, b) evaluating market supply and demand factors and, based upon these analyses, adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, c) attempting to maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate balance between occupancy, rental rates, and promotional discounting and d) controlling operating costs. We believe that our property management personnel and systems, combined with our national telephone reservation system and media advertising programs, will continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals. 

Acquire properties owned or operated by others in the U.S.: We seek to capitalize on the fragmentation of the self-storage business through acquiring attractively priced, well-located existing self-storage facilities. We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities. Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels of our existing facilities provide us an advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities. Since January 1, 2007, we have acquired 64 facilities from third parties (4.4 million net rentable square feet) for approximately $434.7 million, including 11 facilities (0.9 million net rentable square feet) for approximately $80.4 million in 2011. The level of third-party acquisition opportunities available to us depends upon many factors, including the motivation of potential sellers to liquidate their investments and the ability of leveraged owners to economically refinance existing mortgage debt. We decide whether to pursue any such acquisition opportunities based upon many factors including our opinion as to the potential for future growth, the quality of construction and location, and our yield expectations. 

Development of real estate facilities: We believe that in the long-run, development of new storage locations and expansion of our existing self-storage facilities represent an important part of our growth strategy. New locations can be developed to meet customer needs and expand our market penetration. In addition, existing facilities can be expanded or enhanced to provide additional amenities such as climate control, or to better capitalize on increased population density in certain facilities’ local market area. We have developed a significant number of new self-storage locations, and expanded existing self-storage facilities, in our history. However, due to the challenging operating environment, we substantially curtailed our development activities beginning in 2008. We continue to have a nominal development pipeline at December 31, 2011. Shurgard Europe has similarly reduced its development activities (see “Capitalize on the Potential for Growth in Europe” below). 

6 

Participate in the growth of commercial facilities primarily through our ownership in PS Business Parks, Inc.:  Our investment in PSB provides us some diversification into another asset type, and we have no plans of disposing of our investment in PSB. During 2010 and 2011, the challenging economic trends in commercial real estate resulted in year over year decreases in rental income for PSB’s “same park” facilities. It is uncertain what impact these trends will have on PSB’s future occupancy levels and rental income. 

Over the past two years, PSB has been able to grow its portfolio through acquisitions. In 2010, PSB acquired a total of 2.3 million net rentable square feet of commercial space for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $301.7 million, and in 2011, PSB acquired a total of 5.6 million net rentable square feet of commercial space for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $553.5 million. PSB is a stand-alone public company traded on the New York Stock Exchange. As of December 31, 2011, it owned and operated approximately 27.2 million net rentable square feet of commercial space, and had an enterprise value of approximately $3.0 billion (based upon the trading price of PSB’s common shares combined with the liquidiation value of its debt and preferred stock, as of December 31, 2011). 

Participate in the growth of European self-storage through ownership in Shurgard Europe: Our investment in Shurgard Europe provides us with some diversification from U.S. self-storage. Shurgard Europe is the largest self-storage company in Western Europe and owns and operates approximately 10 million net rentable square feet in seven countries: France (principally Paris), Sweden (principally Stockholm), the United Kingdom (principally London), the Netherlands, Denmark (principally Copenhagen), Belgium and Germany. 

In contrast to the U.S., the European self-storage industry is relatively immature. In each of the markets that Shurgard Europe operates in, customer awareness of the product, and availability of product, is low relative to the U.S. Although many European consumers are not yet aware of the self-storage concept, they tend to live in more densely populated areas in smaller living spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe, should make self-storage an attractive product. Most Europeans are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary service provided by moving companies, and more consumer familiarity, combined with more available self-storage space, could result in a significant increase in the utilization of the self-storage product in the long term. In the longer term, we believe that there is significant potential for Shurgard Europe to expand the number of self-storage facilities it owns in Europe, either through development of new facilities or acquisition of existing facilities from private or publicly-held owners. 

We own 49% of Shurgard Europe and one wholly-owned property in London. The other 51% is owned by a large U.S. pension fund. We have no plans of disposing of our investment in Shurgard Europe. During 2011, we and our joint venture partner made a pro-rata equity contribution to fund Shurgard Europe’s acquisition of the 80% equity interests it did not own in two legacy joint ventures owning 72 self-storage facilities for an aggregate of $237.9 million (€172.0 million). As a result, Shurgard Europe now wholly-owns 188 facilities. 

In November 2011, Shurgard Europe obtained a €215.0 million term loan from Wells Fargo which matures in November 2014 (the “Wells Fargo Loan”). The proceeds from the Wells Fargo Loan were used to repay debt (€183.0 million) secured by the 72 facilities held by the joint ventures, as well as repay €32.0 million of the debt Shurgard Europe owes to Public Storage which totaled $402.7 million (€311.0 million) at December 31, 2011. 

The Wells Fargo Loan requires Shurgard Europe to utilize a significant amount of its operating cash flow to reduce the outstanding principal. As a result, and in the absence of additional capital contributions by either us or our joint venture partner, Shurgard Europe’s ability to finance growth will be very limited until the Wells Fargo Loan has been repaid. 

7 

Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies 

Overview of financing strategy: Over the past three years we funded the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities with permanent capital (predominantly retained cash flow and the net proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities). We have elected to use preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional debt, because of certain benefits described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.’’ Our present intention is to continue to finance substantially all our growth with internally generated cash flows and permanent capital. 

Issuance of preferred and common securities: We believe that we are not dependent upon raising capital to fund our existing operations or meet our obligations, due to our low levels of debt and significant cash from operations available for principal payments on debt and reinvestment (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources” below). However, access to capital is important to growing our asset base. When growth capital is needed, we select either common or preferred securities based upon the relative cost of capital. For at least the last ten years, we have raised cash proceeds for growth and other corporate purposes primarily through the issuance of preferred securities, while we have issued common stock only in connection with mergers and the acquisition of interests in real estate entities. During periods of favorable market conditions, we have generally been able to raise capital at attractive costs; however, we are dependent upon capital market conditions and there can be no assurance that future market conditions will be favorable. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we issued approximately $862.5 million and $270.0 million, respectively, of preferred securities, and on January 12, 2012, we issued another $460.0 million of preferred securities. 

Borrowing: We have in the past used our $300 million revolving line of credit as temporary “bridge” financing, and repaid those amounts with permanent capital. When we have assumed debt in the past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made it economically disadvantageous to prepay. Our current debt outstanding was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions or in connection with the merger with Shurgard in 2006. While it is not our present intention to issue additional debt as a long-term financing strategy, we have broad powers to borrow in furtherance of our objectives without a vote of our shareholders. These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured borrowings in our Bylaws described in “Limitations on Debt” below. 

Our senior debt has an “A” credit rating by Standard and Poor’s. Notwithstanding our desire is to continue to meet our capital needs with preferred and common equity, this high rating, combined with our low level of debt, could allow us to issue a significant amount of unsecured debt in the current markets if we were to choose to do so. 

Issuance of securities in exchange for property: We have issued both our common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other investments in the past. Future issuances will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market conditions at the time, including the market prices of our equity securities. 

Joint Venture financing: We have formed and may form additional joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future developments or acquisitions. However, we can generally issue preferred securities on more favorable terms than joint venture financing. 

Disposition of properties: Disposition of properties to raise capital has not been one of our strategies. Generally, we have disposed of self-storage facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell. We do not presently intend to sell any significant number of self-storage facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not. 

8 

Investments in Real Estate and Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities 

Investment Policies and Practices with respect to our investments: Following are our investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any significant alteration, can be changed by our Board of Trustees without a shareholder vote: 

  ·    Our investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage facilities (the nature of our self-storage facilities is described in Item 2, “Properties”), as well as partial interests in entities that own self-storage facilities.    

  ·    Our partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited partnership interests in entities that own self-storage facilities that are managed by us under the “Public Storage” brand name in the U.S., as well as storage facilities managed in Europe under the “Shurgard” brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe.    

  ·    Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in entities in which we already have an interest.    

  ·    To a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties (described in Item 2, “Properties”), containing commercial and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.    

Facilities Owned by Subsidiaries 

In addition to our direct ownership of 2,015 self-storage facilities in the U.S. and one self-storage facility in London, England at December 31, 2011, we have controlling indirect interests in entities that own 26 self-storage facilities in the U.S. with approximately two million net rentable square feet. Due to our controlling interest in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities in our financial statements. 

Facilities Owned by Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities 

At December 31, 2011, we had ownership interests in entities that we do not control or consolidate, comprised of PSB, Shurgard Europe, and various limited partnerships that own an aggregate of 17 self-storage facilities with approximately one million net rentable square feet of storage space. These entities are referred to collectively as the “Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities.” 

PSB, which files financial statements with the SEC, and Shurgard Europe, have debt and other obligations that we do not consolidate in our financial statements. All of the other Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities have no significant amounts of debt or other obligations. See Note 4 to our December 31, 2011 financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets, liabilities and operating results of the Unconsolidated Real Estate Entities. 

Limitations on Debt 

Without the consent of holders of the various series of Senior Preferred Shares, we may not take any action that would result in our “Debt Ratio” exceeding 50%. “Debt Ratio”, as defined in the related governing documents, represents generally the ratio of debt to total assets before accumulated depreciation and amortization on our balance sheet, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As of December 31, 2011, the Debt Ratio was approximately 3%. 

Our bank and senior unsecured debt agreements contain various customary financial covenants, including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of default. We believe we have met each of these covenants as of December 31, 2011. 

9 

Employees 

We have approximately 5,000 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2011 who render services on behalf of the Company, primarily personnel engaged in property operations. 

Seasonality 

We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self-storage facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months. 

Insurance 

We have historically carried customary property, earthquake, general liability and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to customary levels of deductibles. The aggregate limits on these policies of $75 million for property losses and $102 million for general liability losses are higher than estimates of maximum probable loss that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted. 

Our tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to certificate holders against claims for property losses due to specific named perils (earthquakes are not covered by these policies) to goods stored by tenants at our self-storage facilities for individual limits up to a maximum of $5,000. We have third-party insurance coverage for claims paid exceeding $1.0 million resulting from any one individual event, to a limit of $25.0 million. Effective December 1, 2011, these coverage amounts were changed to $5.0 million and $15.0 million, respectively. At December 31, 2011, there were approximately 0.7 million certificate holders held by our self-storage tenants participating in this program, representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.5 billion. We rely on a third-party insurance company to provide the insurance and are subject to licensing requirements and regulations in several states. 

10 

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors