Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  

Our business, financial condition and results of operations are subject to various risks, including those discussed below, which may affect the value of our securities. The risks discussed below are those that we believe currently are the most significant, although additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem less significant also may impact our business, financial condition or results of operations, perhaps materially.  

We have customer concentration with the U.S. Government.  

During 2010, we derived approximately 34% of our revenues from sales to a variety of U.S. Government entities. Our ability to compete successfully for and retain U.S. Government business is highly dependent on technical excellence, management proficiency, strategic alliances, cost-effective performance, and the ability to recruit and retain key personnel. Our revenues from the U.S. Government largely result from contracts awarded to us under various U.S. Government defense-related programs. The funding of these programs is subject to congressional appropriation decisions. Although multiple-year contracts may be planned in connection with major procurements, Congress generally appropriates funds on a fiscal year basis even though a program may continue for several years. Consequently, programs often are only partially funded initially, and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. The reduction or termination of funding, or changes in the timing of funding, for a U.S. Government program in which we provide products or services would result in a reduction or loss of anticipated future revenues attributable to that program and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Significant changes in national and international priorities for defense spending could impact the funding, or the timing of funding, of our programs, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.  

U.S. Government contracts may be terminated at any time and may contain other unfavorable provisions.  

The U.S. Government typically can terminate or modify any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. A termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. If any of our contracts are terminated by the U.S. Government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. In addition, on those contracts for which we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. In any such event, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

As a U.S. Government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations.  

We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation, define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts, and restrict the use and dissemination of classified information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. Our U.S. Government contracts contain provisions that allow the U.S. Government to unilaterally suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations, reduce the value of existing contracts, issue modifications to a contract, and control and potentially prohibit the export of our products, services and associated materials. Several of our U.S. Government contracts contain provisions that mandate us to disclose whether or not we have been the subject of a proceeding that resulted in a criminal conviction, based on certain statutes, certain findings of civil liability, and certain administrative determinations of fault or a settlement with an acknowledgment of fault in connection with the performance of a government contract. Failure to properly and timely disclose may result in a termination for default or cause, suspension and/or debarment, and potential fines. In addition, we are subject to audits by the Defense Contract Audit Agency to assure our compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to U.S. Government contractors. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts and, under certain circumstances, suspension or debarment from future contracts for a period of time. Also, changes in procurement policies, budget considerations, unexpected U.S. developments, such as terrorist attacks, or similar political developments or events abroad that may change the U.S. Government’s national security defense posture may affect sales to government entities. These laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business.  

The Department of Defense (DoD) has announced plans for significant changes to its business practices that could have a material effect on its overall procurement process and adversely impact our current programs and potential new awards.  

Recently, the DoD has announced various initiatives designed to gain efficiencies, refocus priorities and enhance business practices used by the DoD, including those used to procure goods and services from defense contractors. The most recent initiatives are  

8    

organized in five major areas: affordability and cost growth; productivity and innovation; competition; services acquisition; and processes and bureaucracy. These new initiatives are expected to impact significantly the contracting environment in which we do business with our DoD customers, and they could have a significant impact on current programs, as well as new business opportunities. Changes to the DoD acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and, if so, how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so.  

Cost overruns on U.S. Government contracts could subject us to losses or adversely affect our future business.  

Under fixed-price contracts, as a general rule, we receive a fixed price irrespective of the actual costs we incur, and, consequently, any costs in excess of the fixed price are absorbed by us. Changes in underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates used in developing the pricing for such contracts may adversely affect our results of operations. Under time and materials contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, which are subject to a contract-ceiling amount, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance based. However, if our costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the provisions of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for all such costs. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs we incur in performing under the contract, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Cost overruns also may adversely affect our ability to sustain existing programs and obtain future contract awards.  

Weak demand for our aircraft products may continue to adversely affect our financial results.  

As a result of the recent worldwide economic downturn, over the past several years we have experienced weak demand for our new and used aircraft, a tightening of credit availability for potential purchasers of our aircraft, and a substantial number of cancellations of orders and customer requests for delayed delivery of ordered aircraft. Soft demand for new and used business jets and helicopters could persist and could continue to adversely impact the pricing of new aircraft and the valuation of used aircraft. In addition, both U.S. and foreign governments and government agencies regulate the aviation industry; they may impose new regulations with additional aircraft security or other requirements or restrictions, including, for example, restrictions and/or fees related to carbon emissions levels that may adversely impact demand for business jets and/or helicopters. A prolonged weakness in the markets for our commercial aircraft products could adversely impact our results of operations and our future prospects.  

We may not be able to continue to execute the liquidation of our Finance segment’s non-captive commercial finance business at a favorable pace and level of recovery.  

In the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced a plan to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business of our Finance segment while retaining the captive portion of the business that supports customer purchases of products that we manufacture. The exit plan is being effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to accomplish the orderly liquidation of our portfolio on a timely or successful basis or in a manner that will generate cash sufficient to service our Finance segment’s debt. We may encounter delays and difficulties in effecting the continued orderly liquidation of our various receivable portfolios as a result of many factors, including the inability of our customers to find alternative financing, which could expose us to increased credit losses. We may have greater difficulty in selling the remaining receivables that have been designated for sale or transfer, assets that have been acquired upon foreclosure of receivables and/or other non-operating assets at the pricing that we anticipate or in the time frame that we anticipate. We may be required to make additional mark-to-market or other adjustments against assets that we intend to sell or to take additional reserves against assets that we intend to retain. We may change our current strategy based on either our performance and liquidity position or changes in external factors affecting the value and/or marketability of our assets, which could result in changes in the classification of assets we intend to hold for investment and additional mark-to-market adjustments. We may incur higher costs than anticipated as a result of this exit plan or be subject to claims made by third parties, and the exit plan may result in increased credit losses. We expect that our portfolio quality will continue to deteriorate as we proceed through the liquidation and the asset mix changes and that our cash conversion ratio on liquidation will decrease; this deterioration could be more severe and the cash conversion ratio lower than we anticipate, resulting in greater losses. Significant delay or difficulty in executing the continued liquidation and/or substantial losses could result in the failure of our portfolio to generate the cash necessary to service our Finance segment’s indebtedness, resulting in continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Difficult conditions in the financial markets have adversely affected the quality of our Finance segment’s finance asset portfolios, and our losses may increase if we are unable to successfully collect our finance receivables or realize sufficient value from collateral.  

The financial performance of our Finance segment depends on the quality of loans, leases and other assets in its finance asset portfolios. Portfolio quality may be adversely affected by several factors, including finance receivable underwriting procedures, collateral quality, geographic or industry concentrations, and the effect of the recent economic downturn on our customers’ businesses, as well as the broader deterioration of the financial markets. As a result of the tumultuous conditions in the financial markets over the past two years, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced, and, in some cases, ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. These conditions have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies and defaults, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, widespread reduction of business activity, and bankruptcy filings. Valuations of the types of collateral securing our timeshare and other portfolios have been and may continue to be adversely affected by increased consumer delinquencies, the reduction in business activity and bankruptcy proceedings involving our borrowers. Valuations of the types of collateral securing our captive finance portfolio, particularly valuations of used aircraft, have decreased significantly over the past two years and may continue to decrease if weak economic conditions continue. Declining collateral values could result in greater  

9    

delinquencies and foreclosures as customers elect to discontinue payments on loan balances that exceed asset values. Bankruptcy proceedings involving our borrowers may prevent or delay our ability to exercise our rights and remedies and realize the full value of our collateral. Our losses may increase if our collateral cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of our finance receivable portfolio. If these negative market conditions persist or worsen, the Finance segment may experience further deterioration in its ability to successfully collect its finance receivables or realize sufficient value from collateral, which may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.  

Payments required under our Support Agreement with TFC could restrict our use of capital.  

During the past several years, we have made quarterly capital contributions to TFC, as required under the terms of our Support Agreement with TFC, to maintain both the fixed charge coverage ratio required by the Support Agreement and the leverage ratio required by TFC’s credit facility. A summary of the capital contributions paid to TFC and dividends received from TFC is provided on page 29. We will likely be required to make additional capital contributions to TFC in the future in order to maintain this ratio. While capital contributions to TFC may not increase the aggregate amount of outstanding consolidated indebtedness of Textron and TFC, such contributions could restrict our allocation of available capital for other purposes. In addition, recently, from time to time, TFC has borrowed from us to meet its liquidity needs, and is expected to require further borrowings from us for its liquidity needs in the future, depending upon market conditions. TFC’s need for borrowings from us could restrict our use of funds for other purposes.  

Failure to maintain credit ratings acceptable to investors may increase the cost of our funding and may adversely affect our access to the capital markets.  

The major rating agencies regularly evaluate us, including TFC, for purposes of assigning credit ratings. Our ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit ratings and current market conditions. Failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain financing, as well as our access to the capital markets.  

We may need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations in the future; such financing may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all.  

We may periodically need to obtain financing in order to meet our debt obligations as they come due. Although we currently have access to the capital markets, we may not be able to refinance our credit facilities or maturing debt at the time that such financing is necessary at terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate sources of credit on favorable terms, or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.  

Our ability to fund our captive financing activities at economically competitive levels depends on our ability to borrow and the cost of borrowing in the credit markets.  

Our Finance segment’s ability to continue to offer customer financing for the products that we manufacture, and the long-term viability and profitability of the captive finance business, is largely dependent on our ability to obtain funding at a reasonable cost. This ability and cost, in turn, are dependent on our credit ratings and are subject to credit market volatility. If we are unable to continue to offer customer financing or if we are unable to offer competitive customer financing, it could negatively impact our Manufacturing group’s ability to generate sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

Failure to perform by our subcontractors or suppliers could adversely affect our performance.  

We rely on other companies to provide raw materials, major components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors also perform services that we provide to our customers in certain circumstances. In addition, we outsource certain support functions, including certain global information technology infrastructure services to third-party service providers. We depend on these vendors, subcontractors and service providers to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and conduct our operations.  

Our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if suppliers or subcontractors do not provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. Likewise, the quality of our products may be adversely impacted if companies to whom we delegate manufacture of major components or subsystems for our products, or from whom we acquire such items, do not provide components or subsystems which meet required specifications and perform to our and our customers’ expectations. Our suppliers may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters and other events beyond their control and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. The risk of these adverse effects may be greater in circumstances where we rely on only one or two subcontractors or suppliers for a particular raw material, product or service. In particular, in the aircraft industry, most vendor parts are certified by the regulatory agencies as part of the overall Type Certificate for the aircraft being produced by the manufacturer. If a vendor does not or cannot supply its parts, then the manufacturer’s production line may be stopped until the manufacturer can design, manufacture and certify a similar part itself or identify and certify another similar vendor’s part, resulting in significant delays in the completion of aircraft.  

Such events may adversely affect our financial results, damage our reputation and relationships with our customers, result in regulatory actions and/or result in product liability claims. Likewise, any disruption of our information technology systems or other outsourced processes or functions could have a material adverse impact on our operations and our financial results.  

10    

Developing new products and technologies entails significant risks and uncertainties.  

To continue to grow our revenues and segment profit, we must successfully develop new products and technologies or modify our existing products and technologies for our current and future markets. Our future performance depends, in part, on our ability to identify emerging technological trends and customer requirements in our current and future markets and to develop and maintain competitive products and services. Delays or cost overruns in the development and acceptance of new products, or certification of new aircraft and other products, could affect our financial results of operations. These delays could be caused by unanticipated technological hurdles, production changes to meet customer demands, unanticipated difficulties in obtaining required regulatory certifications of new aircraft products, coordination with joint venture partners or failure on the part of our suppliers to deliver components as agreed. Changes in environmental laws and regulations, for example, those enacted in response to climate change concerns and other actions known as “green initiatives,” could lead to the necessity for new or additional investment in product designs and could increase environmental compliance expenditures, including costs to defend regulatory reviews. We also could be adversely affected if the general efficacy of our research and development investments to develop products is less than expected or if we do not adequately protect the intellectual property developed through our research and development efforts. Likewise, new products and technologies could generate unanticipated safety or other concerns resulting in expanded product liability risks, potential product recalls and other regulatory issues that could have an adverse impact on us. Furthermore, because of the lengthy research and development cycle involved in bringing certain of our products to market, we cannot predict the economic conditions that will exist when any new product is complete. A reduction in capital spending in the aerospace or defense industries could have a significant effect on the demand for new products and technologies under development, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the market for our offerings will develop or continue to expand as we currently anticipate. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our competitors will not develop competing technologies which gain market acceptance in advance of our products. Our failure in our new product development efforts or the failure of our products or services to achieve market acceptance more rapidly than our competitors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Our business is subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries.  

Our international business, including U.S. exports, exposes us to certain unique and potentially greater risks than our domestic business. Our exposure to such risks increases as our international business continues to grow. Our international business is subject to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement policies and practices, which may change from time to time, including regulations relating to import-export control; environmental, health and safety; investments; exchange controls; and repatriation of earnings or cash settlement challenges, as well as to varying currency, geopolitical and economic risks. These international risks may be especially significant with respect to aerospace and defense products for which we sometimes first must obtain licenses and authorizations from various U.S. Government agencies before we are permitted to sell our products outside the U.S. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside the U.S. could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, some international government customers require contractors to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, as a condition for a contract award. The contracts generally extend over several years and may include penalties if we fail to meet the offset requirements, which could adversely impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Additionally, we are facing increasing competition in our international markets from foreign and multinational firms that may have certain home country advantages over us; as a result, our ability to compete successfully in those markets may be adversely affected, which could negatively impact our revenues.  

We maintain manufacturing facilities, services centers, supply centers and other facilities worldwide, including in various emerging market countries, and we expect that our investment in emerging market countries will continue to increase. Emerging market operations can present many risks, including civil disturbances, economic and government instability, terrorism and related safety concerns, health concerns, cultural differences in employment and business practices, the imposition of exchange controls and risks associated with inadequate infrastructures to deal with natural disasters. The impact of any one or more of these or other factors could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results.  

We also are exposed to risks associated with using foreign representatives and consultants for international sales and operations and teaming with international subcontractors and suppliers in connection with international programs. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, any such violation by any of our international representatives, consultants, subcontractors or suppliers, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation.  

We are subject to increasing compliance risks that could adversely affect our operating results.  

As a global business, we are subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. Our increased focus on international sales and global operations requires importing and exporting goods and technology, some of which have military applications subjecting them to more stringent import-export controls, across international borders on a regular basis. Both U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to us have been increasing in scope and complexity. In addition, we could be affected by U.S. or foreign laws or regulations imposed in response to climate change concerns. Changes in laws and regulations, or in related interpretation and policies, and new laws and regulations could increase our costs of doing business, affect how we conduct our operations and limit our ability to sell our products and services. In addition, a violation of U.S. and/or foreign laws by one of our  

11    

employees or business partners could subject us or our employees to civil or criminal penalties, including material monetary fines, or other adverse actions, including denial of import or export privileges and debarment as a government contractor. These improper actions could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business.  

We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims.  

We are subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising out of the conduct of our business, including proceedings and claims relating to commercial and financial transactions; government contracts; lack of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; production partners; product liability; patent and trademark infringement; employment disputes; and environmental, safety and health matters. Under federal government procurement regulations, certain claims brought by the U.S. Government could result in our being suspended or debarred from U.S. Government contracting for a period of time. On the basis of information presently available, we do not believe that existing proceedings and claims will have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. However, litigation is inherently unpredictable, and we could incur judgments or enter into settlements for current or future claims that could adversely affect our financial position or our results of operations in any particular period.  

Intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers.  

Intellectual property infringement claims may be asserted by third parties against us or our customers. Any related indemnification payments or legal costs we may be obliged to pay on behalf of our businesses, our customers or other third parties could be costly. In addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names, trade names and trade secrets that are important to our business. The inability to enforce these intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, our intellectual property could be at risk due to various cyber threats.  

Certain of our products are subject to laws regulating consumer products and could be subject to repurchase or recall as a result of safety issues.  

As a distributor of consumer products in the U.S., certain of our products also are subject to the Consumer Product Safety Act, which empowers the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) to exclude from the market products that are found to be unsafe or hazardous. Under certain circumstances, the CPSC could require us to repair, replace or refund the purchase price of one or more of our products, or potentially even discontinue entire product lines, or we may voluntarily do so, but within strictures recommended by the CPSC. The CPSC also can impose fines or penalties on a manufacturer for non-compliance with its requirements. Furthermore, failure to timely notify the CPSC of a potential safety hazard can result in significant fines being assessed against us. Any repurchases or recalls of our products or an imposition of fines or penalties could be costly to us and could damage the reputation or the value of our brands. Additionally, laws regulating certain consumer products exist in some states, as well as in other countries in which we sell our products, and more restrictive laws and regulations may be adopted in the future.  

If we fail to comply with the covenants contained in our various debt agreements, it may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.  

Our credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants, including (i) limitations on creation of liens on assets of Textron Inc. or of its manufacturing subsidiaries; (ii) maintenance of existence and properties; and (iii) maintenance of a maximum debt to capital ratio (as defined and excluding our Finance segment) of 65%. The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes also contain covenants, including limitations on creation of liens on certain principal manufacturing facilities and shares of stock of subsidiaries that own such facilities and restrictions on sale and leaseback transactions with respect to such facilities. In addition, both the credit facility and the indentures provide that consolidations, mergers or sale of all or substantially all of our assets may be effected only if we comply with certain provisions. Some of these covenants may limit our ability to engage in certain financing structures, create liens, sell assets, or effect a consolidation or merger.  

Our credit facility also contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of Textron Inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than any of our subsidiaries that primarily are engaged in the business of a finance company, of more than $100 million. Similarly, the supplemental indenture governing our convertible notes contains a cross-default provision that would trigger an event of default thereunder if we fail to pay or otherwise have a continued default under other indebtedness of Textron Inc. or any of our subsidiaries, other than TFC or its subsidiaries, of more than $100 million. Therefore, Cessna Finance Export Corporation, a subsidiary of Textron Inc. that is the borrower under the Export-Import Bank facility entered into on July 14, 2009, and Textron Aviation Finance Corporation, a subsidiary of Textron Inc. that is the borrower under the Economic Development Canada Bank (EDC) facility entered into on August 6, 2010, would be included within the cross-default provision of the supplemental indenture for the convertible notes, although not within the similar provision in our credit facility. As a result, a failure to pay or a continued default under the Export-Import Bank facility or the EDC facility, if the outstanding balance thereunder exceeded $100 million, could give rise to an event of default with respect to our convertible notes.  

In addition, a bankruptcy or monetary judgment in excess of $100 million against us or any of our subsidiaries that accounts for more than 5% of our consolidated revenues or our consolidated assets, including our finance subsidiaries, also would result in an event of default under our credit facility, and a bankruptcy against us or any of our non-finance “significant subsidiaries” (within the meaning  

12    

of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules) also would result in an event of default under the indenture governing our convertible notes.  

Our failure to comply with material provisions or covenants in the credit facility or the indentures, or the failure of certain of our subsidiaries to comply with their debt agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.  

The increasing costs of certain employee and retiree benefits could adversely affect our results.  

Our earnings and cash flow may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we expend or record for employee benefit plans. This is particularly true for our defined benefit pension plans, where required contributions to those plans and related expenses are driven by, among other things, our assumptions of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate used for future payment obligations and the rates of future cost growth. Additionally, as part of our annual evaluation of these plans, significant changes in our assumptions, due to changes in economic, legislative and/or demographic experience or circumstances, or changes in our actual investment returns could impact our unfunded status of the plans requiring us to substantially increase our pension liability with a resulting decrease in shareholders’ equity. Changes in the funded status of these plans are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) in the year in which they occur. Also, changes in pension legislation and regulations could increase the cost associated with our defined benefit pension plans.  

In addition, medical costs are rising at a rate faster than the general inflation rate. Continued medical cost inflation in excess of the general inflation rate would increase the risk that we will not be able to mitigate the rising costs of medical benefits. Moreover, Congress recently has enacted a comprehensive healthcare law, and we are evaluating the potential impacts of this new law on our costs. We expect that some of the requirements of this new law will increase our future costs. Increases to the costs of pension and medical benefits could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations.  

Our business could be adversely affected by strikes or work stoppages and other labor issues.  

Approximately 5,900 of our U.S. employees, or 24% of our total U.S. employees, are unionized, and approximately 2,500 of our non-U.S. employees, or 33% of our total non-U.S. employees, are represented by organized councils. As a result, we may experience work stoppages, which could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products on a timely basis, resulting in strain on our relationships with our customers and a loss of revenues. In addition, the presence of unions may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive pressures in the marketplace, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results of operations.  

In addition, the workforces of many of our customers and suppliers are represented by labor unions. Work stoppages or strikes at the plants of our key customers could result in delayed or canceled orders for our products. Work stoppages and strikes at the plants of our key suppliers could disrupt our manufacturing processes. Any of these results could adversely affect our financial results of operations.  

Currency, raw material price and interest rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results.  

We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates. We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program. In some cases, we purchase derivatives or enter into contracts to insulate our financial results of operations from these fluctuations. Nevertheless, changes in currency exchange rates, raw material prices and interest rates can have substantial adverse effects on our financial results of operations.  

We may be unable to effectively mitigate pricing pressures.  

In some markets, particularly where we deliver component products and services to original equipment manufacturers, we face ongoing customer demands for price reductions, which sometimes are contractually obligated. However, if we are unable to effectively mitigate future pricing pressures through technological advances or by lowering our cost base through improved operating and supply chain efficiencies, our financial results of operations could be adversely affected.  

The levels of our reserves are subject to many uncertainties and may not be adequate to cover write-downs or losses.  

We establish reserves to cover uncollectable finance receivables and accounts receivable, excess or obsolete inventory, fair market value write-downs on used aircraft and golf cars, recall campaigns, environmental remediation, warranty costs and litigation. These reserves are subject to adjustment from time to time depending on actual experience and/or current market conditions and are subject to many uncertainties, including bankruptcy or other financial problems at key customers, as well as changing market conditions.  

Due to the nature of our manufacturing business, we may be subject to liability claims arising from accidents involving our products, including claims for serious personal injuries or death caused by climatic factors or by pilot or driver error. In the case of litigation matters for which reserves have not been established because the loss is not deemed probable, it is reasonably possible that such matters could be decided against us and could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that are not presently estimable. In addition, we cannot be certain that our reserves are adequate and that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more substantial claims. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable levels and costs in the future.  

13    

Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability.  

We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of income among these different jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes to unrecognized tax benefits or changes in tax laws, which could affect our profitability. In particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a tax authority could affect our profitability.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

Not applicable.  

Item 2. Properties