PART I  

Item 1. Business  

Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative products and services around the world. We have approximately 32,000 employees worldwide. Textron Inc. was founded in 1923 and reincorporated in Delaware on July 31, 1967. Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Textron Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Textron Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

We conduct our business through five operating segments: Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial, which represent our manufacturing businesses, and Finance, which represents our finance business. A description of the business of each of our segments is set forth below. Our business segments include operations that are unincorporated divisions of Textron Inc. and others that are separately incorporated subsidiaries. Financial information by business segment and geographic area appears in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 80 and 82 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 18 through 35 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated.  

Cessna Segment

 Cessna is the world’s leading general aviation company based on unit sales with two principal lines of business: Aircraft sales and aftermarket services. Aircraft sales include Citation business jets, Caravan single-engine utility turboprops, single-engine piston aircraft and lift solutions by CitationAir. Aftermarket services include parts, maintenance, inspection and repair services. Revenues in the Cessna segment accounted for approximately 24%, 32% and 40% of our total revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenues for Cessna’s principal lines of business were as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The family of business jets currently produced by Cessna includes the Citation CJ1+, Citation CJ2+, Citation CJ3, Citation CJ4, Citation Sovereign, Citation X, Citation XLS+ and Mustang. The Cessna Caravan is the world’s best-selling utility turboprop. Caravans are offered in four models: the Grand Caravan, the Super Cargomaster, the Caravan 675 and the Caravan Amphibian. Caravans are used in the United States primarily for overnight express package shipments and for personal transportation. International uses of Caravans include humanitarian flights, tourism and freight transport. Cessna offers nine models in its single-engine piston product line, which include the four-place Skyhawk, Skyhawk SP, Skylane, Turbo Skylane, Corvalis and Corvalis TT, the six-place Stationair and Turbo Stationair and the two-place Skycatcher.  

The Citation family of aircraft currently is supported by nine Citation Service Centers owned or operated by Cessna, along with authorized independent service stations and centers located in more than 27 countries throughout the world. Cessna-owned Service Centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Cessna also provides around-the-clock parts support for Citation aircraft. Cessna Caravan and single-engine piston customers receive product support through independently owned service stations and around-the-clock parts support through Cessna.  

Cessna markets its products worldwide through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives, depending upon the product line. Cessna has several competitors domestically and internationally in various market segments. Cessna’s aircraft compete with other aircraft that vary in size, speed, range, capacity and handling characteristics on the basis of price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation.  

Cessna’s private jet business called CitationAir offers a spectrum of private aviation lift solutions, including Jet Card, Jet Access, Jet Shares, Jet Management and Corporate Solutions. The CitationAir fleet operates throughout the contiguous U.S. and in Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, the Bahamas and Bermuda.  

2    

Bell Segment

 Bell Helicopter is one of the leading suppliers of military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and services in the world. Revenues for Bell accounted for approximately 31%, 27% and 20% of our total revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Revenues by Bell’s principal lines of business were as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and support to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the U.S. Bell’s primary U.S. Government programs are the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters. Bell is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters to the U.S. Government and, in association with The Boeing Company (Boeing), the only supplier of military tiltrotor aircraft. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. Through its strategic alliance with Boeing, Bell produces and supports the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). The U.S. Marine Corps H-1 helicopter program includes a utility model and an advanced attack model, the UH-1Y and the AH-1Z, respectively, which have 84% parts commonality between them.  

Through its commercial business, Bell is a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters and support to corporate, offshore petroleum exploration and development, utility, charter, police, fire, rescue, emergency medical helicopter operators and foreign governments. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types, including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The helicopters currently produced by Bell for commercial applications include the 206L-4, 407, 412EP, 429 and Huey II.  

For both its military programs and its commercial products, Bell provides post-sale support and service for its installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters through a network of Bell-owned service sites, more than 120 independent service centers and six supply centers that are located worldwide. Collectively, these service sites offer a complete range of logistics support, including parts, support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repair and overhaul, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, aircraft customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field service and product support engineering.  

Bell competes against a number of competitors based in the U.S. and other countries for its helicopter business, and its parts and support business competes against numerous competitors around the world. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support, performance and reputation.  

Textron Systems Segment

 Textron Systems’ product lines consist of unmanned aircraft systems, land and marine systems, weapons and sensors and a variety of defense and aviation mission support products. Textron Systems is a supplier to the defense, aerospace and general aviation markets, providing approximately 19%, 18% and 13% of Textron’s revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. While this segment sells most of its products to U.S. Government customers, it also increasingly sells products to customers outside the U.S. through foreign military sales sponsored by the U.S. Government and directly through commercial sales channels. Textron Systems competes on the basis of technology, contract performance, price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation.  

Revenues by Textron Systems’ product lines were as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Unmanned Aircraft Systems

 Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) consists of the AAI-UAS and AAI-Logistics & Technical Services businesses, which are operating units of Textron Systems. AAI-UAS is the prime system integrator for the U.S. Army’s premier tactical UAS, the Shadow, which includes the One System Ground Control Station — the U.S. Army’s standard for interoperability of manned and unmanned airborne assets. AAI-Logistics & Technical Services provides logistical support related to the operation of various unmanned aircraft systems including field operational and maintenance service support, as well as engineering and supply chain services to government and commercial customers worldwide.  

3    

Land and Marine Systems  

The Land and Marine Systems business is operated as Textron Marine & Land Systems (TMLS). TMLS is a world leader in the design, production and support of Armored Security Vehicles (ASV), turrets and related subsystems and advance marine craft. TMLS currently produces ASVs and its variants for the U.S. Army and international allies.  

Weapons and Sensors  

The Weapons and Sensors business is operated as Textron Defense Systems (TDS). This business consists of state-of-the-art smart weapons; airborne and ground-based sensors and surveillance systems; and protection systems for the defense, aerospace and homeland security communities. TDS is the U.S. Air Force’s prime contractor for the Sensor Fuzed Weapon and the U.S. Army’s lead provider for networked munitions systems.  

Mission Support and Other  

Mission Support and Other includes three lines of business: AAI-Test & Training, Overwatch and Lycoming. AAI-Test & Training provides training and simulation systems and automated aircraft test and maintenance equipment. Overwatch is a widely recognized market leader in multi-source intelligence and geospatial analysis solutions. Lycoming specializes in the engineering, manufacture, service and support of piston aircraft engines for the general aviation market.  

Industrial Segment  

Our Industrial segment designs and manufactures a variety of products under three principal product lines. Industrial segment revenues were as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Fuel Systems and Functional Components  

Our fuel systems and functional components product line is operated by our Kautex division, which is headquartered in Bonn, Germany. Kautex is a leading developer and manufacturer of blow-molded plastic fuel systems for cars, light trucks, all-terrain vehicles, windshield and headlamp washer systems, and selective catalytic reduction systems used to reduce emissions from diesel engines. Kautex produces engine camshafts in North America, and serves the automobile market worldwide, with operating facilities near its major customers around the world. In addition, from facilities in Germany and Poland, Kautex develops and produces plastic bottles and containers for food, household, laboratory and industrial uses. Revenues of Kautex accounted for approximately 16%, 12% and 13% of our total revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Our automotive products have a limited number of competitors worldwide, some of which are affiliated with the original equipment manufacturers that comprise our targeted customer base. Competition typically is based on a number of factors, including price, product quality and reliability, prior experience and available manufacturing capacity.  

Golf and Turf Care  

Our golf and turf care product line includes the products manufactured by our E-Z-GO and Jacobsen divisions. E-Z-GO designs, manufactures and sells golf cars and off-road utility vehicles powered by electric and internal combustion engines and electric on-road low speed vehicles under the E-Z-GO name, as well as multipurpose utility vehicles and off-road vehicles under the E-Z-GO, Cushman and Bad Boy Buggies brand names. E-Z-GO’s diversified customer base consists primarily of golf courses, resort communities and municipalities, consumers, and commercial and industrial users such as airports, college campuses and factories. Sales are made factory direct and through distributors and dealers worldwide. E-Z-GO has two major competitors for golf cars and several other competitors for off-road, on-road and multipurpose utility vehicles. Competition is based primarily on product quality and reliability, product support, reputation and price.  

Jacobsen designs and manufactures professional turf-maintenance equipment, as well as specialized turf-care vehicles. Brand names include Ransomes, Jacobsen and Cushman. Jacobsen’s customers include golf courses, resort communities, sporting venues and municipalities. Products are sold through a network of distributors and dealers. Jacobsen has two major competitors for professional turf-maintenance equipment and several other competitors for specialized turf-care products. Competition is based primarily on product features, product quality and reliability, price and product support.  

Powered Tools, Testing and Measurement Equipment  

We design and manufacture powered tools, testing and measurement equipment through our Greenlee division. Greenlee designs and manufactures powered equipment, electrical test and measurement instruments, hand and hydraulic powered tools, and electrical and fiber optic assemblies under the Greenlee, Klauke, Paladin Tools, Progressive and Tempo brand names. These products  

4    

principally are used in the electrical construction, maintenance, telecommunications, data communications, wiring and plumbing industries. Greenlee distributes its products through a global network of sales representatives and distributors and sells its products directly to home improvement retailers and original equipment manufacturers. Through a joint venture, Greenlee also sells hand and powered tools for the plumbing and mechanical industries in North America. The Greenlee businesses face competition from numerous manufacturers based primarily on price, product quality and reliability.  

Finance Segment  

Our Finance segment, or the Finance group, is a commercial finance business that consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) and its consolidated subsidiaries, along with three other finance subsidiaries owned by Textron Inc. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced a plan to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business of our Finance segment while retaining the captive portion of the business that supports customer purchases of products that we manufacture. We made the decision to exit this business in order to address our long-term liquidity position in light of the disruption and instability in the capital markets. The non-captive business is based primarily in North America and includes the following product lines: distribution finance, golf mortgage, structured capital and timeshare. The exit plan is being effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. During 2010, we reduced our owned and managed receivable portfolio by approximately $2.4 billion and expect, depending on market conditions, to substantially liquidate the remaining non-captive portfolio over the next three to five years.  

Our Finance segment continues to originate new customer relationships and finance receivables in the captive finance business, which provides financing primarily for new Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters and, to a lesser extent, for new E-Z-GO and Jacobsen golf and turf-care equipment. We also provide financing to purchasers of pre-owned Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters on a limited basis. New finance receivables are originated primarily outside the United States. Originations in the U.S. primarily finance purchases of Textron-manufactured products for purchasers who have had difficulty in accessing other sources of financing.  

In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our Finance group paid our Manufacturing group $0.4 billion, $0.6 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties that were financed by the Finance group. Our Cessna and Industrial segments also received proceeds in those years of $10 million, $13 million and $18 million, respectively, from the sale of equipment from their manufacturing operations to our Finance group for use under operating lease agreements.  

The commercial finance business traditionally has been extremely competitive. Our Finance segment is subject to competition from various types of financing institutions, including banks, leasing companies, commercial finance companies and finance operations of equipment vendors. Competition within the commercial finance industry primarily is focused on price, term, structure and service.  

Our Finance segment’s largest business risks are continued access to financing through the capital markets and the collectability of its finance receivable portfolio. See “Finance Portfolio Quality” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 27 for a discussion of the credit quality of this portfolio.  

Backlog  

Our backlog at the end of 2010 and 2009 is summarized below:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Orders from Cessna customers, which cover a wide spectrum of industries worldwide, are included in backlog when the customer enters into a definitive purchase agreement and the initial customer deposit is received. We work with our customers to provide estimated delivery dates, which may be adjusted based on the customers’ needs or our production schedule, but do not establish definitive delivery dates until approximately six months before expected delivery. There is considerable uncertainty as to when or whether backlog will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability; these factors also may be impacted by the economy and public perceptions of private corporate jet usage. While backlog is an indicator of future revenues, we cannot reasonably estimate the year each order in backlog ultimately will result in revenues and cash flows.  

5    

Orders remain in backlog until the aircraft is delivered or upon cancellation by the customer. Upon cancellation, deposits are used to defray costs, including remarketing fees, cost to reconfigure the aircraft and other costs incurred as a result of the cancellation. Remaining deposits, if any, may be retained or refunded at our discretion.  

Approximately 58% of our total backlog at January 1, 2011 represents orders that are not expected to be filled in 2011.  

The U.S. Government is obligated only up to the amount of funding formally appropriated for a contract. The difference between the award value of the contract and the amount formally appropriated (funded) represents unfunded backlog. At January 1, 2011, substantially all U.S. Government backlog included in the above table was funded. Under a multi-year procurement contract with the U.S. Government for the purchase of V-22 tiltrotor aircraft, Bell has $4.9 billion of funded backlog included in the above table. Bell also has approximately $1.2 billion of unfunded orders under the V-22 program that have not yet been appropriated and are not included in the above table.  

U.S. Government Contracts  

In 2010, approximately 34% of our consolidated revenues were generated by or resulted from contracts with the U.S. Government. This business is subject to competition, changes in procurement policies and regulations, the continuing availability of funding, which is dependent upon congressional appropriations, national and international priorities for defense spending, world events, and the size and timing of programs in which we may participate.  

Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including, if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and an amount for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government will not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and will be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; and (c) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source.  

Research and Development  

Information regarding our research and development expenditures is contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 50 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Patents and Trademarks  

We own, or are licensed under, numerous patents throughout the world relating to products, services and methods of manufacturing. Patents developed while under contract with the U.S. Government may be subject to use by the U.S. Government. We also own or license active trademark registrations and pending trademark applications in the U.S. and in various foreign countries or regions, as well as trade names and service marks. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole. Some of these trademarks, trade names and service marks are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, including: AAI; AH-1Z; BA609; Bell/Agusta Aerospace Company, LLC; Bell Helicopter; Bravo; Cadillac Gage; Caravan; Caravan Amphibian; Caravan 675; Cessna; Cessna 350; Cessna 400; Citation; CitationAir; CitationAir Jetcard; Citation Encore+; Citation Sovereign; Citation X; Citation XLS+; CJ1+; CJ2+; CJ3; CJ4; CLAW; Corvalis; Eclipse; Excel; E-Z-GO; Fly Bell; Fly Smart; Grand Caravan; Greenlee; H-1; Huey II; IE2; Kautex; Kiowa Warrior; Klauke; Lycoming; M1117 ASV; McCauley; Mustang; Next Generation Fuel System; NGFS; Overwatch; Paladin; PDCue; Power Advantage; Progressive; ProParts; Rothenberger LLC; RXV; Sensor Fuzed Weapon; Shadow; SkyBOOKS; Skycatcher; Skyhawk; Skyhawk SP; Skylane; SkyPLUS; Sovereign; Stationair; ST 4X4; Super Cargomaster; SuperCobra; SYMTX; TDCue; Tempo; Textron; Textron Defense Systems; Textron Financial Corporation; Textron Global Technology Center; Textron Marine & Land Systems; Textron Systems; Turbo Skylane; Turbo Stationair; UAV SYSTEMS SPECIALIST; UH-1Y; US Helicopter; V-22 Osprey; 2FIVE; and 429. These marks and their related trademark designs and logotypes (and variations of the foregoing) are trademarks, trade names or service marks of Textron Inc., its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures.  

Environmental Considerations  

Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment. Compliance with these laws and expenditures for environmental control facilities has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Additional information regarding environmental matters is contained in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 79 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

We do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on our business or markets nor on our results of operations, capital  

6    

 expenditures or financial position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area.  

Employees  

At January 1, 2011, we had approximately 32,000 employees.  

Available Information  

We make available free of charge on our Internet Web site (www.textron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Forward-Looking Information  

Certain statements in this report and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, which may describe strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures, often include words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend”, “plan,” “estimate,” “guidance”, “project”, “target”, “potential”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “likely” or “may” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors described herein under “RISK FACTORS,” factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results are the following:  

   •   Changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget, including those related to ongoing military operations in foreign countries;  

   •   Changes in worldwide economic and political conditions that impact demand for our products, interest rates and foreign exchange rates;  

   •   Our ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the U.S. Government;  

   •   The U.S. Government’s ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us for the U.S. Government’s convenience or for our failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, and, under certain circumstances, to suspend or debar us as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards;  

   •   Changes in international funding priorities, foreign military budget constraints and determinations, and government policies on the export and import of military and commercial products;  

   •   Our Finance segment’s ability to maintain portfolio credit quality and to realize full value of receivables and of assets acquired upon foreclosure of receivables;  

   •   TFC’s ability to maintain certain minimum levels of financial performance required under its committed bank line of credit and under Textron’s support agreement with TFC;  

   •   Our Finance segment’s access to financing, including securitizations, at competitive rates; performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and business partners;  

   •   Legislative or regulatory actions impacting our operations or demand for our products;  

   •   The ability to control costs and successful implementation of various cost-reduction programs;  

   •   The efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products and unanticipated expenses in connection with the launching of significant new products or programs, the timing of new product launches and certifications of new aircraft products;  

   •   The extent to which we are able to pass raw material price increases through to customers or offset such price increases by reducing other costs;  

   •   Increases in pension expenses and employee and retiree medical benefits;    

7    

   •   Uncertainty in estimating reserves, including reserves established to address contingent liabilities, unrecognized tax benefits and potential losses on TFC’s receivables;  

   •   Difficult conditions in the financial markets that may adversely impact our customers’ ability to fund or finance purchases of our products; and  

   •   Continued volatility in the economy resulting in a prolonged downturn in the markets in which we do business.    

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS