ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Introduction

This MD&A is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our recent performance, financial condition and prospects. The following will be discussed and analyzed:

•Overview of Business

•Overview of 2014 Results

•Results of Operations and Related Information

•Unaudited Quarterly Data

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

•Legal Matters

•Business Outlook

•Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted. We completed the spin-off of our health care business on October 31, 2014 (see further discussion below). As a result, the health care business is presented as discontinued operations on the Consolidated Income Statement for all periods presented, and prior period Consolidated Income Statements and related disclosures have been recast accordingly. The health care business' balance sheet, other comprehensive income and cash flows are included within our Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement through October 31, 2014. Segment results have also been recast to present net sales and operating profit by segment on a continuing operations basis.

Overview of Business

We are a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life, with manufacturing facilities in 35 countries and products sold in more than 175 countries. Our products are sold under well-known brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend. We have three reportable global business segments: Personal Care, Consumer Tissue and K-C Professional ("KCP"). These global business segments are described in greater detail in Item 8, Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In operating our global business, we seek to:

•manage our portfolio to balance growth, margin and cash flow, 

•invest in our brands, innovation and growth initiatives, 

•deliver sustainable cost reductions, and 

•provide disciplined capital management to improve return on invested capital and return cash to shareholders. 

Key strategies for our segments include: 

•We plan to grow our strong positions in personal care by leveraging our brands and providing innovations. 

•For consumer tissue, we seek to bring differentiated, value-added innovations to grow and strengthen our brands while focusing on net realized revenue, improving mix and reducing costs. 

•We plan to continue to shift our mix to faster-growing, higher-margin wiping and safety segments within KCP. 

Beginning in 2015, we will describe our business outside North America in two groups – Developing and Emerging Markets ("D&E") and Developed Markets, instead of K-C International ("KCI") and Europe. D&E markets will comprise Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Latin America and Asia-Pacific, excluding Australia and South Korea. Developed Markets will consist 

  12KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

of Western and Central Europe, Australia and South Korea. Previously, KCI consisted of our businesses in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa.

Highlights for 2014 include the following:

•We executed our growth strategies in KCI, with a focus on markets in China, Eastern Europe and Latin America. Net sales in KCI grew mid-single digits in 2014, despite the negative 6 percent impact from unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates. KCI net sales as a percentage of total company net sales was similar to the prior year at 42 percent.

•In North America, we generated solid sales growth and launched innovations on several brands in 2014, including Viva towels, GoodNites youth pants, Huggies baby wipes and our Poise and Depend adult care brands. In KCI, we continue to innovate across our diaper portfolio. We continue to grow our feminine care brands and launch innovations in this category. We also experienced strong growth in net selling prices and volumes for adult care, baby wipes and KCP products in KCI. 

•To help fund our investments in innovations and growth initiatives and to improve our profit margins, we are generating cost savings through several initiatives, including leveraging our global procurement organization and deploying lean principles. Full-year cost savings from our ongoing program in 2014 were $320.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In 2014, we completed our strategic changes related to our Western and Central European consumer and professional businesses to focus our resources and investments on stronger market positions and growth opportunities. We exited the diaper category in that region, with the exception of the Italian market, and divested or exited some lower-margin businesses, mostly in consumer tissue, in certain markets.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•On October 31, 2014 (the "Distribution Date"), we completed the spin-off of our health care business, creating a stand-alone, publicly traded health care company, Halyard Health, Inc. ("Halyard"), with approximately $1.7 billion in annual net sales. On the Distribution Date, each of our shareholders of record as of the close of business on October 23, 2014 (the "Record Date") received one share of Halyard common stock for every 8 shares of our common stock held as of the Record Date. The distribution was structured to be tax free to our U.S. shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Halyard's common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “HYH.” After the distribution, we do not beneficially own any shares of Halyard common stock.

We are subject to risks and uncertainties, which can affect our business operations and financial results. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K for additional information.

Overview of 2014 Results

•Net sales increased 1 percent compared to the prior year. Increases in organic sales volumes and net selling prices were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates and lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions. 

•Operating profit and income from continuing operations decreased 13 percent and 23 percent, respectively, compared to 2013.

•A charge related to the remeasurement of the Venezuelan balance sheet decreased operating profit and income from continuing operations by $462.

  13KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

•Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, includes charges of $138 related to the spin-off of our health care business.

•Diluted earnings per share in total and from continuing operations decreased 27 percent and 22 percent, respectively, compared to 2013. The decreases were primarily due to the charges mentioned above, along with lower equity income.

Results of Operations and Related Information

This section presents a discussion and analysis of net sales, operating profit and other information relevant to an understanding of 2014 results of operations. This discussion and analysis compares 2014 results to 2013, and 2013 results to 2012.

Results By Business Segment

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

N.M. - Not Meaningful

  14KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

Results By Geography

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)Other (income) and expense, net for 2014 includes a charge of $421 related to the remeasurement of the Venezuelan balance sheet and a $35 charge related to a regulatory dispute in the Middle East. The results for 2013 include a balance sheet remeasurement charge of $36 due to the February 2013 devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar, partially offset by gains on the sales of certain non-core assets. The results for 2012 include currency transaction gains and the impact of the favorable resolution of a legal matter, partially offset by asset impairment charges.

Percentage Change

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Lower sales related to the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions.

(b)Mix/Other includes rounding.

  15KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes inflation/deflation in raw materials, energy and distribution costs.

(b)Other includes the impact of changes in marketing, research and general expenses and manufacturing costs not separately listed in the table. In addition, Other includes the impact of charges recorded in Corporate & Other and other (income) and expense, net. 

Commentary - 2014 Compared to 2013

Consolidated

Net sales of $19.7 billion increased 1 percent compared to the prior year. Organic sales volumes and net selling prices each increased 2 percent. Foreign currency exchange rates were unfavorable by 2 percent, and lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced net sales by 1 percent. 

Operating profit was $2,521 in 2014 and $2,903 in 2013. Operating profit comparisons benefited from organic sales volume growth and higher net selling prices, as well as FORCE cost savings of $320 and $30 of savings from pulp and tissue restructuring actions. Input costs were $240 higher overall versus 2013. Results in 2014 include charges related to the 2014 organization restructuring, remeasurement of the Venezuelan balance sheet and European strategic changes of $133, $462 and $33, respectively. Results in 2013 include charges related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar and European strategic changes of $36 and $81, respectively. In addition, foreign currency translation effects reduced operating profit in 2014 by $75, and currency transaction effects also negatively impacted the operating profit comparison.

We remeasured our local currency-denominated balance sheet in Venezuela as of December 31, 2014 at the year end floating SICAD II exchange rate of 50 bolivars per U.S. dollar, resulting in a non-deductible charge of $462 in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended December 31, 2014. Prior to December 31, 2014, we measured results in Venezuela at the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars per U.S. dollar. See additional information later in this MD&A and Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The effective tax rate was 38.0 percent in 2014 compared to 31.4 percent in 2013. The increase was primarily due to the non-deductible charge in 2014 related to the remeasurement of the Venezuelan balance sheet.

Kimberly-Clark's share of net income of equity companies was $146 in 2014 and $205 in 2013. At Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. ("KCM"), results were negatively impacted by input cost increases and a weaker Mexican peso, partially offset by increased organic sales volumes and cost savings.

Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, was $50 in 2014 and $203 in 2013. The decrease was primarily due to after-tax charges of $138 ($157 pre-tax) related to the spin-off of our health care business.

Diluted earnings per share were $4.04 in 2014 and $5.53 in 2013. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $3.91 in 2014 and $5.01 in 2013. The decreases were primarily due to lower earnings, partially offset by the lower share count. Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations were $0.13 in 2014 and $0.52 in 2013. 

Personal Care Segment

Net sales of $9.6 billion increased 1 percent compared to 2013. Organic sales volumes and net selling prices each increased 3 percent. Currency rates were unfavorable by 4 percent, and lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes reduced net sales by 1 percent. Operating profit of $1,803 increased 6 percent. The comparison benefited from higher net selling prices, 

  16KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

organic sales volume growth and cost savings, partially offset by unfavorable effects from changes in currency rates and input cost inflation. 

Net sales in North America were essentially even with the prior year. Slightly higher sales volumes and net selling prices were offset by unfavorable currency rates. Huggies baby wipes volumes rose double-digits, including benefits from market share gains and product innovation. Adult care volumes increased high-single digits, including innovation on Depend and Poise brands. Huggies diaper volumes decreased mid-single digits and were impacted by market share declines and competitive promotional activity. Child care volumes decreased mid-single digits, driven by lower Pull-Ups training pants volumes, partially offset by the launch of new GoodNites youth pants. Feminine care volumes were down slightly.

Net sales in KCI increased 4 percent. Organic sales volumes increased 6 percent, and net selling prices were higher by 5 percent, partially offset by unfavorable currency rates of 7 percent. The volume increase included gains in China, Eastern Europe, South Africa, South Korea, Vietnam and most of Latin America. The higher net selling prices were driven by increases in Latin America and Eastern Europe in response to weaker currency rates and cost inflation. 

Net sales in Europe decreased 19 percent. Lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes reduced net sales by 20 percent and net selling prices decreased net sales by 1 percent. Favorable currency rates increased net sales by 2 percent. 

Consumer Tissue Segment

Net sales of $6.6 billion were essentially even with the prior year. Organic sales volumes and net selling prices each increased net sales by 1 percent. Unfavorable currency rates decreased net sales by 1 percent, and lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced net sales by a combined 1 percent. Operating profit of $1,062 increased 7 percent. The comparison benefited from higher net selling prices and cost savings, partially offset by input cost inflation and higher manufacturing-related costs in 2014. 

Net sales in North America increased 1 percent. Sales volumes increased 2 percent, driven by growth in Cottonelle and Scott bathroom tissue and the launch of Viva Vantage paper towels. Unfavorable currency effects and changes in product mix reduced net sales by a combined 1 percent. 

Net sales in KCI increased 1 percent. Net selling prices increased net sales by 4 percent, and improved product mix and growth in organic sales volumes increased net sales by a combined 1 percent. Unfavorable currency rates decreased net sales by 4 percent. The improvement in net selling prices was driven by increases in Latin America. 

Net sales in Europe decreased 4 percent, driven by lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions which reduced net sales by a combined 6 percent. Favorable currency rates increased net sales by 3 percent. 

KCP Segment

Net sales of $3.4 billion increased 2 percent compared to 2013. Organic sales volumes increased 3 percent, and net selling prices improved by 1 percent. The impact of currency rates on net sales was unfavorable by 2 percent. Operating profit of $604 was essentially even with the prior year. The comparison benefited from organic sales volume growth, higher net selling prices and cost savings, offset by input cost inflation and unfavorable currency effects. 

Net sales in North America decreased 2 percent. Net selling prices were lower by 2 percent, and unfavorable currency effects and changes in product mix decreased net sales by a combined 1 percent. Organic sales volumes increased 1 percent, driven by gains in safety products, wipers and other categories, partially offset by declines in washroom products. 

Net sales in KCI increased 8 percent, despite unfavorable currency rates of 5 percent. Organic sales volumes rose 7 percent, net selling prices improved net sales by 5 percent and product mix improved 1 percent. Organic sales volumes rose in each major geography.

Net sales in Europe increased 3 percent. Organic sales volumes increased 3 percent, driven by growth in washroom products. Favorable currency rates and improved product mix each increased net sales by 1 percent, while lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions and the impact of lower net selling prices each reduced net sales by 1 percent. 

Commentary - 2013 Compared to 2012 

Consolidated

Net sales of $19.6 billion in 2013 were up slightly from the prior year with increased organic sales volumes of 3 percent and higher net selling prices of 1 percent. Changes in foreign currency rates, and lost sales in conjunction with European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions, each reduced net sales by 2 percent.  

  17KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

Operating profit of $2,903 in 2013 increased 22 percent from $2,377 in 2012. The increase in operating profit included benefits from organic volume growth and higher net selling prices, as well as FORCE (Focused On Reducing Costs Everywhere) cost savings of $305. Comparisons were positively impacted by lower restructuring costs, as 2012 included $299 and $135 of charges for the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions, respectively, and 2013 included $81 of charges for the European strategic changes. Operating profit in 2013 was negatively impacted by inflation in input costs of $220 versus 2012 and unfavorable foreign currency translation effects of $65 as a result of the weakening of several currencies, including the Australian dollar and Brazilian real, relative to the U.S. dollar. Currency transaction effects also negatively impacted the operating profit comparison. 

The effective tax rate was 31.4 percent in 2013 compared to 31.3 percent in 2012. 

Kimberly-Clark's share of net income of equity companies was $205 in 2013 and $177 in 2012. At KCM, results benefited from net sales growth, increased operating profit margin and a stronger Mexican peso versus the U.S. dollar.

Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, was $203 in 2013 and $201 in 2012.

Diluted earnings per share were $5.53 in 2013 and $4.42 in 2012. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $5.01 in 2013 and $3.91 in 2012. The increases were primarily due to higher operating profit, along with increased equity income and a lower share count.

Personal Care Segment

Net sales of $9.5 billion were essentially even with the prior year with increased organic sales volumes of 4 percent and improved product mix of 1 percent. Lower sales in conjunction with European strategic changes reduced net sales by 3 percent and currency rates were unfavorable by 2 percent.  Operating profit of $1,698 increased 2 percent due to cost savings and organic sales volume increases, partially offset by inflation in input costs, manufacturing cost increases, higher marketing, research and general expenses and unfavorable currency effects.

Net sales in North America decreased 1 percent due to lower net selling prices and the impact of unfavorable product mix, which reduced net sales by a combined 1 percent. Sales volumes increased 1 percent and were partially offset by unfavorable currency effects. Adult care volumes increased mid-single digits, including benefits from product innovation on the Depend and Poise brands. Huggies diaper and baby wipe volumes each increased low-single digits. Child care volumes decreased low-single digits and were impacted by category softness, competitive activity and lower shipments for Huggies Little Swimmers swim pants. Feminine care volumes were also down low-single digits.

In KCI, net sales increased 4 percent with sales volumes up 7 percent and higher net selling prices and improved product mix of 1 percent each. Currency rates were unfavorable by more than 4 percent. Volumes increased significantly in China, Eastern Europe, Vietnam and throughout most of Latin America, including Brazil, but declined in South Korea and Venezuela. For diapers, the total increase in sales volumes, net selling prices and product mix was more than 35 percent in China and approximately 20 percent in Eastern Europe and Brazil.

Net sales in Europe decreased 31 percent, including a 40 percent negative impact from lost sales in conjunction with European strategic changes. Organic sales volumes rose 8 percent, including growth in Huggies baby wipes and child care products, and currency rates were favorable by 1 percent. 

Consumer Tissue Segment

Net sales of $6.6 billion increased 2 percent, as higher organic sales volumes and net selling prices each increased 2 percent. These increases were partially offset by the impact of lower sales in conjunction with the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, which each decreased net sales by 1 percent. Operating profit of $988 increased 11 percent due to higher net sales, cost savings, the positive impact from higher production volumes, and lower marketing, research and general expenses, partially offset by input cost inflation, other manufacturing cost increases and unfavorable currency effects. 

Net sales in North America increased 3 percent compared to 2012, including a 2 percent increase in net selling prices and a 1 percent improvement in product mix. The increase in net selling prices was driven by sheet count reductions accompanying product innovation in 2013 on Kleenex facial tissue and Cottonelle and Scott Extra Soft bathroom tissue. Sales volumes were up slightly compared to 2012, as gains in bath tissue and paper towels were mostly offset by lower volumes in facial tissue. 

Net sales increased 5 percent in KCI, with higher sales volumes of 5 percent and increased net selling prices of 4 percent. Unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates decreased net sales by 4 percent. The growth in volume and price was driven by increases in Latin America. 

  18KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

In Europe, net sales decreased 5 percent, including the impact from lower sales in conjunction with the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions of 7 percent and decreased net selling prices of 1 percent. These decreases were partially offset by increased organic sales volumes of 2 percent and favorable currency effects of 1 percent. 

KCP Segment

Net sales of $3.3 billion increased 1 percent compared to 2012 with organic sales volumes, net selling prices and improved product mix each increasing net sales by 1 percent. These increases were partially offset by total lower sales in conjunction with the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions of 1 percent and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates of 1 percent. Operating profit of $605 increased 12 percent due to sales growth and cost savings, partially offset by input cost inflation, increased marketing, research and general expenses and unfavorable currency effects.

Net sales in North America were up slightly compared to 2012. Higher volumes in washroom and wiper products were mostly offset by the impact from the exit of certain lower-margin safety product offerings.

Net sales increased 4 percent in KCI, despite a 5 percent decrease from unfavorable changes in currency rates. Sales volumes increased 4 percent, driven by growth in Latin America, and net selling prices also rose 4 percent. Improved product mix increased net sales by 1 percent.

In Europe, net sales decreased 1 percent. Lower sales in conjunction with the European strategic changes and pulp and tissue restructuring actions reduced sales volumes by 2 percent and organic sales volumes decreased 1 percent. These decreases were partially offset by the impact of favorable currency rates and improved product mix of 1 percent each. 

2014 Organization Restructuring

In October 2014, we initiated a restructuring plan in order to improve organization efficiency and offset the impact of stranded overhead costs resulting from the spin-off of our health care business. The restructuring is intended to improve our underlying profitability and increase our flexibility to invest in targeted growth initiatives, brand building and other capabilities critical to delivering future growth.

The restructuring is expected to be completed by the end of 2016, with total costs anticipated to be $130 to $160 after tax ($190 to $230 pre-tax). Cash costs are projected to be approximately 80 percent of the total charges. Workforce reductions are expected to be in the range of 1,100 to 1,300 and primarily impact salaried employees. Cumulative pre-tax savings from the restructuring are expected to be $120 to $140 by the end of 2017, and were $5 in 2014. The restructuring is expected to impact all of our business segments and our organizations in all major geographies.

During 2014, $133 of pre-tax charges were recognized for the organization restructuring, including $40 recorded in cost of products sold and $93 recorded in marketing, research and general expenses, primarily for workforce reductions. A related benefit of $38 was recorded in provision for income taxes. On a geographic basis, $47 of the charges were recorded in North America, $28 in Europe and $58 in our other international operations in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Africa. 

European Strategic Changes

In 2012, we approved strategic changes related to our Western and Central European consumer and professional businesses to focus our resources and investments on stronger market positions and growth opportunities. We exited the diaper category in that region, with the exception of the Italian market, and divested or exited some lower-margin businesses, mostly in consumer tissue, in certain markets. The changes primarily affect our consumer businesses, with a modest impact on KCP. The impacted businesses generated annual net sales of approximately $0.5 billion and negligible operating profit. As a result of the restructuring activities, compared to 2012, annual net sales in 2014 and 2013 were decreased by $500 and $350, respectively.

Restructuring actions related to the strategic changes involved the sale or closure of five of our European manufacturing facilities and streamlining our administrative organization. The restructuring actions commenced in 2012 and were completed by December 31, 2014. The restructuring resulted in cumulative pre-tax charges of $413 ($338 after tax) over that period. 

For information on the charges by year, financial statement classification and segment, see Item 8, Notes 4 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Pulp and Tissue Restructuring Actions

In 2011 and 2012, we executed pulp and tissue restructuring actions in order to exit our remaining integrated pulp manufacturing operations and improve the underlying profitability and return on invested capital of our consumer tissue and KCP businesses. These actions involved the streamlining, sale or closure of seven of our manufacturing facilities around the world. In conjunction with these actions, we exited certain non-strategic products, primarily non-branded offerings, and transferred some production to lower-cost facilities in order to improve overall profitability and returns. The actions were substantially complete at December 31, 

  19KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

2012. The restructuring resulted in cumulative pre-tax charges of $550 ($375 after tax) over that period. See Item 8, Notes 5 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

Unaudited Quarterly Data

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Historical market prices do not reflect any adjustment for the impact of the spin-off of our health care business.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Provided by Operations

Cash provided by operations was $2.8 billion in 2014 compared to $3.0 billion in 2013. The decrease was driven by higher tax payments and transaction costs for the health care spin-off, partially offset by lower payments for restructuring items. 

Obligations

The following table presents our total contractual obligations for which cash flows are fixed or determinable. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Projected interest payments for variable-rate debt were calculated based on the outstanding principal amounts and prevailing market rates as of December 31, 2014.

•The unconditional purchase obligations are for the purchase of raw materials, primarily superabsorbent materials, pulp, and utilities. Although we are primarily liable for payments on the above operating leases and unconditional purchase 

  20KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

obligations, based on historic operating performance and forecasted future cash flows, we believe exposure to losses, if any, under these arrangements is not material.

•The open purchase orders displayed in the table represent amounts for goods and services we have negotiated for delivery.

The table does not include amounts where payments are discretionary or the timing is uncertain. The following payments are not included in the table:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Accrued income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, deferred taxes and noncontrolling interests.

•Potential estimated redemption price of $46 for the redeemable preferred securities related to our subsidiary in Central America as the timing of such redemption is unknown.

Investing

Our capital spending was $1.0 billion in both 2014 and 2013. We expect capital spending to be $950 to $1,050 in 2015. 

Financing

On October 17, 2014, we issued debt of $640 aggregate principal amount that was transferred to Halyard as part of the spin-off.

On May 22, 2014, we issued $300 aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due May 19, 2016 and $300 aggregate principal amount of 1.9% notes due May 22, 2019. Proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes and repurchases of common stock.

Our short-term debt, which consists of U.S. commercial paper with original maturities up to 90 days and/or other similar short-term debt issued by non-U.S. subsidiaries, was $777 as of December 31, 2014 (included in debt payable within one year on the Consolidated Balance Sheet). The average month-end balance of short-term debt for the fourth quarter of 2014 was $579, and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014 was $572. These short-term borrowings provide supplemental funding for supporting our operations. The level of short-term debt generally fluctuates depending upon the amount of operating cash flows and the timing of customer receipts and payments for items such as dividends and income taxes.

In December 2014, we repaid $500 of redeemable preferred securities. See Item 8, Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the securities.

At December 31, 2014 and 2013, total debt and redeemable securities was $7.0 billion and $6.3 billion, respectively.

In June 2014, we entered into a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility which expires in 2019. This facility, currently unused, replaced a similar facility for $1.5 billion, supports our commercial paper program, and would provide liquidity in the event our access to the commercial paper markets is unavailable for any reason.

We repurchase shares of Kimberly-Clark common stock from time to time pursuant to publicly announced share repurchase programs. During 2014, we repurchased 18.0 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $2.0 billion through a broker in the open market, including the impact of approximately $600 from the spin-off of our health care business. In 2015, we plan to repurchase $0.8 billion to $1.0 billion of shares through open market purchases, subject to market conditions.

We account for our operations in Venezuela using highly inflationary accounting. We have historically measured results in Venezuela at the rate in which we transact our business, which in 2012 was 5.4 bolivars per U.S. dollar, and 6.3 bolivars per U.S dollar through much of 2013 and 2014. Given the level of uncertainty and lack of liquidity in Venezuela, in part due to recent declines in the price of oil, we remeasured our local currency-denominated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014 at the year end floating SICAD II exchange rate of 50 bolivars per U.S. dollar. This remeasurement resulted in a non-deductible charge of $462 in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended December 31, 2014, with $41 recorded in cost of products sold and $421 recorded in other 

  21KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

(income) and expense, net. See additional information in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. At December 31, 2014, K-C Venezuela had a bolivar-denominated net monetary asset position (primarily cash) of $59 and our net investment in K-C Venezuela was $152, both valued at 50 bolivars per U.S. dollar. Net sales of K-C Venezuela represented approximately 3 percent of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014 and approximately 2 percent of consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. 

In January 2015, we measured results in Venezuela at the floating SICAD II exchange rate. In mid-February 2015, the government of Venezuela announced changes to their three-tiered currency exchange system. We are evaluating the implications of these changes to assess the impact on our results and reporting for our operations in that country. 

Management believes that our ability to generate cash from operations and our capacity to issue short-term and long-term debt are adequate to fund working capital, capital spending, payment of dividends, pension plan contributions and other needs for the foreseeable future. Further, we do not expect restrictions or taxes on repatriation of cash held outside of the United States to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations for the foreseeable future.

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. The critical accounting policies we used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. The critical judgments by management relate to accruals for sales incentives and trade promotion allowances, pension and other postretirement benefits, deferred income taxes and potential income tax assessments. These critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Sales Incentives and Trade Promotion Allowances

Trade promotion programs include introductory marketing funds such as slotting fees, cooperative marketing programs, temporary price reductions, end-of-aisle or in-store product displays and other activities conducted by our customers to promote our products. Rebate accruals are based on estimates of the quantity of products expected to be sold to specific customers. Our related accounting policies are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Factors affecting the accruals for promotions include:

•Estimates of the number of consumer coupons that will be redeemed

•Estimates of the quantity of customer sales, timing of promotional activities and forecasted costs for activities within the promotional programs

Generally, the estimates for consumer coupon costs are based on historical patterns of coupon redemption, influenced by judgments about current market conditions such as competitive activity in specific product categories.

Employee Postretirement Benefits

Pension Plans

We have defined benefit pension plans in North America and the United Kingdom (the "Principal Plans") and/or defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all regular employees. Certain other subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans or, in certain countries, termination pay plans covering substantially all regular employees. Our related accounting policies and account balances are discussed in Item 8, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Changes in certain assumptions could significantly affect pension expense and the benefit obligations, particularly the estimated long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rates used to calculate the obligations:

•Long-term rate of return on plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return is evaluated on an annual basis. In setting these assumptions, we consider a number of factors including projected future returns by asset class relative to the target asset allocation. Actual asset allocations are regularly reviewed and they are periodically rebalanced to the targeted allocations when considered appropriate. Pension expense is determined using the fair value of assets rather than a calculated value that averages gains and losses ("Calculated Value") over a period of years. Investment gains or losses represent the difference between the expected return calculated using the fair value of assets and the actual return based 

  22KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

on the fair value of assets. The variance between actual and expected gains and losses on pension assets is recognized in pension expense more rapidly than it would be if a Calculated Value was used for plan assets.

As of December 31, 2014, the Principal Plans had cumulative unrecognized investment and actuarial losses of approximately $2.9 billion. These unrecognized net losses may increase future pension expense if not offset by (i) actual investment returns that exceed the assumed investment returns, (ii) other factors, including reduced pension liabilities arising from higher discount rates used to calculate pension obligations, or (iii) other actuarial gains, including whether such accumulated actuarial losses at each measurement date exceed the "corridor" as required. If the expected long-term rates of return on assets for the Principal Plans were lowered by 0.25 percent, the impact on annual pension expense would not be material in 2015.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Other assumptions. There are a number of other assumptions involved in the calculation of pension expense and benefit obligations, primarily related to participant demographics and benefit elections. As of December 31, 2014, we updated our assumptions for revised mortality projections that reflect longevity improvements of plan participants, resulting in an increase to future pension expense and to our consolidated benefit obligation.

Pension expense for defined benefit pension plans is estimated to approximate $100 in 2015. Pension expense beyond 2015 will depend on future investment performance, our contributions to the pension trusts, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the covered employees in the plans.

Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

Substantially all U.S. retirees and employees have access to our unfunded healthcare and life insurance benefit plans. Our related accounting policies and account balances are discussed in Item 8, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in significant assumptions could affect the consolidated expense and benefit obligations, particularly the discount rates used to calculate the obligations and the healthcare cost trend rate:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Healthcare cost trend rate. The healthcare cost trend rate is based on a combination of inputs including our recent claims history and insights from external advisers regarding recent developments in the healthcare marketplace, as well as projections of future trends in the marketplace. See Item 8, Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of the effect of a one percentage point change in the healthcare cost trend rate.

Deferred Income Taxes and Potential Assessments

As a global organization we are subject to income tax requirements in various jurisdictions in the U.S. and internationally. Income tax related accounting policies, account balances and matters affecting income taxes are discussed in Item 8, Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in certain assumptions related to income taxes could significantly affect consolidated results, particularly with regard to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside the U.S. and uncertain tax positions:

•Deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We have recorded deferred tax assets related to, among other matters, income tax loss carryforwards, income tax credit carryforwards and capital loss carryforwards and have established valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets. These carryforwards are primarily in non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions 

  23KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

and in certain states in the U.S. Foreign tax credits earned in the U.S. in current and prior years, which cannot be used currently, also give rise to net deferred tax assets. In determining the valuation allowances to establish against these deferred tax assets, many factors are considered, including the specific taxing jurisdiction, the carryforward period, income tax strategies and forecasted earnings for the entities in each jurisdiction. A valuation allowance is recognized if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Uncertain tax positions. We record our global tax provision based on the respective tax rules and regulations for the jurisdictions in which we operate. Where we believe that a tax position is supportable for income tax purposes, the item is included in our income tax returns. Where treatment of a position is uncertain, a liability is recorded based upon the expected most likely outcome taking into consideration the technical merits of the position based on specific tax regulations and facts of each matter. These liabilities may be affected by changing interpretations of laws, rulings by tax authorities or the expiration of the statute of limitations. We currently believe that the ultimate resolution of matters subject to administrative appeals, litigation or other uncertainty, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

Legal Matters

See Item 8, Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on legal matters.

New Accounting Standards

See Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of new accounting standards and their anticipated effects on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Business Outlook

In 2015, we plan to continue to execute our Global Business Plan strategies, which include a focus on targeted growth initiatives, innovation and brand building, cost savings programs and shareholder-friendly capital allocation. In 2015, we expect GAAP earnings per share in a range of $5.46 to $5.72, based on the assumptions described below:

•Growth in volume, net selling prices and product mix is expected to be in the combined 3 to 5 percent target range, with a focus on Personal Care and KCP in developing and emerging markets.

•We expect net sales to be negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates of 8 to 9 percent, including an approximate 3 percent impact from exchange rate changes in Venezuela. We also expect unfavorable foreign currency translation effects to negatively impact operating profit growth by 9 to 10 percent, including an approximate 4 percent decrease from exchange rate changes in Venezuela. Currency transaction effects are also anticipated to negatively impact operating profit.

•We anticipate commodity cost deflation of $0 to $150.

•We plan to achieve cost savings of at least $300 from our FORCE program, and $60 to $80 from the 2014 organization restructuring.

•We anticipate that advertising spending will increase somewhat as a percentage of net sales to support targeted growth initiatives, brand building and innovation activities.

•We expect the effective tax rate to be between 31.5 and 33.5 percent.

•Our share of net income from equity companies is expected to be down somewhat due to lower earnings at KCM, driven by a weaker Mexican peso.

  24KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

•We anticipate capital spending to be in a $950 to $1,050 range and share repurchases to total $0.8 to $1.0 billion, subject to market conditions.

•We expect to contribute up to $100 to our defined benefit pension plans and to increase our quarterly dividend mid-single digits effective April 2015, subject to approval by the Board of Directors.

•Charges related to the 2014 organization restructuring are expected to be $30 to $50 after tax.

Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Certain matters contained in this report concerning the business outlook, including the anticipated costs, scope, timing and financial and other effects of the 2014 organization restructuring, cash flow and uses of cash, growth initiatives, innovations, marketing and other spending, cost savings and reductions, net sales, anticipated currency rates and exchange risks, including the impact in Venezuela, raw material, energy and other input costs, contingencies and anticipated transactions of Kimberly-Clark, including dividends, share repurchases and pension contributions, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based upon management's expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting Kimberly-Clark. There can be no assurance that these future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update them. 

The assumptions used as a basis for the forward-looking statements include many estimates that, among other things, depend on the achievement of future cost savings and projected volume increases. In addition, many factors outside our control, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the prices and availability of our raw materials, potential competitive pressures on selling prices for our products, energy costs and retail trade customer actions, as well as general economic and political conditions globally and in the markets in which we do business, could affect the realization of these estimates.

The factors described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K, or in our other SEC filings, among others, could cause our future results to differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could also affect our business operations and financial results.

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK