PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Kimberly-Clark Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1928. We are a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life through product innovation and building our personal care, consumer tissue and K-C Professional brands. We are principally engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of a wide range of products mostly made from natural or synthetic fibers using advanced technologies in fibers, nonwovens and absorbency. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms "Corporation," "Kimberly-Clark," "K-C," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Kimberly-Clark Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

For financial information by business segment and geographic area, including revenue, profit and total assets of each reportable segment, and information about our principal products and markets, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" ("MD&A") and Item 8, Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted. Kimberly-Clark’s prior period Consolidated Income Statements and related disclosures have been recast to present the results of the spun-off health care business (see further discussion below) as discontinued operations. Segment results have also been recast to present net sales and operating profit by segment on a continuing operations basis.

Recent Developments

Spin-off of Health Care Business

On October 31, 2014 (the "Distribution Date"), we completed the spin-off of our health care business, creating a stand-alone, publicly traded health care company, Halyard Health, Inc. ("Halyard"), with approximately $1.7 billion in annual net sales. On the Distribution Date, each of our shareholders of record as of the close of business on October 23, 2014 (the "Record Date") received one share of Halyard common stock for every 8 shares of our common stock held as of the Record Date. The distribution was structured to be tax free to our U.S. shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Halyard's common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “HYH.” After the distribution, we do not beneficially own any shares of Halyard common stock.

The spun-off health care business is presented as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Income Statement for all periods presented. The health care business' balance sheet, other comprehensive income and cash flows are included within our Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Consolidated Cash Flow Statement through October 31, 2014. See additional information related to the impact of the spin-off in Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

2014 Organization Restructuring

In October 2014, we initiated a restructuring plan in order to improve organization efficiency and offset the impact of stranded overhead costs resulting from the spin-off of our health care business. The restructuring is intended to improve our underlying profitability and increase our flexibility to invest in targeted growth initiatives, brand building and other capabilities critical to delivering future growth. The restructuring is expected to be completed by the end of 2016, with total costs anticipated to be $130 to $160 after tax ($190 to $230 pre-tax). Cash costs are projected to be approximately 80 percent of the total charges. Workforce reductions are expected to be in the range of 1,100 to 1,300 and primarily impact salaried employees. The restructuring is expected to impact all of our business segments and our organizations in all major geographies. See additional information in MD&A and Item 8, Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Remeasurement of Venezuela Balance Sheet

We remeasured our local currency-denominated balance sheet in Venezuela as of December 31, 2014 at the year end floating SICAD II exchange rate of 50 bolivars per U.S. dollar, resulting in a non-deductible charge of $462 in the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended December 31, 2014. Prior to December 31, 2014, we measured results in Venezuela at the official exchange rate of 6.3 bolivars per U.S. dollar. See additional information in MD&A and Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

  1KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

Description of Kimberly-Clark

We are organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into three reportable global business segments. Information on these three segments, as well as their principal sources of revenue, is included below.

•Personal Care brands offer parents a trusted partner in caring for their families and deliver confidence, protection and discretion to adults through a wide variety of innovative solutions and products such as disposable diapers, training and youth pants, swimpants, baby wipes, feminine and incontinence care products, and other related products. Products in this segment are sold under the Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, DryNites, Kotex, U by Kotex, Intimus, Depend, Plenitud, Poise and other brand names.

•Consumer Tissue offers a wide variety of innovative solutions and trusted brands that touch and improve people's lives every day. Products in this segment include facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins and related products, and are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Viva, Andrex, Scottex, Neve and other brand names.

•K-C Professional ("KCP") helps transform workplaces for employees and patrons, making them healthier, safer and more productive, through a range of solutions and supporting products such as apparel, wipers, soaps, sanitizers, tissue and towels. Key brands in this segment include Kleenex, Scott, WypAll, Kimtech and Jackson Safety. 

These reportable segments were determined in accordance with how our chief operating decision maker and our executive managers develop and execute our global strategies to drive growth and profitability of our worldwide personal care, consumer tissue and KCP operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and development programs, cost reductions including supply chain management and capacity and capital investments for each of these businesses. 

Products for household use are sold directly to supermarkets, mass merchandisers, drugstores, warehouse clubs, variety and department stores and other retail outlets, as well as through other distributors and e-commerce. Products for away-from-home use are sold through distributors and directly to manufacturing, lodging, office building, food service, and high volume public facilities.

Net sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. were approximately 13% in 2014, 2013 and 2012.

Patents and Trademarks

We own various patents and trademarks registered domestically and in many foreign countries. We consider the patents and trademarks that we own and the trademarks under which we sell certain of our products to be material to our business. Consequently, we seek patent and trademark protection by all available means, including registration.

Raw Materials

Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or fiber recycled from recovered waste paper, is the primary raw material for our tissue products and is a component of disposable diapers, training and youth pants, feminine pads and incontinence care products.

Polypropylene and other synthetics and chemicals are the primary raw materials for manufacturing nonwoven fabrics, which are used in disposable diapers, training and youth pants, wet wipes, feminine pads, incontinence products, and away-from-home wipers. Superabsorbent materials are important components of disposable diapers, training and youth pants and incontinence care products. 

Raw materials are purchased from third parties, and we consider the supply to be adequate to meet the needs of our businesses. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors."

Competition

We have several major competitors in most of our markets, some of which are larger and more diversified than us. The principal methods and elements of competition include brand recognition and loyalty, product innovation, quality and performance, price, and marketing and distribution capabilities. For additional discussion of the competitive environment in which we conduct our business, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors."

Research and Development

Research and development expenditures are directed toward new or improved personal care, tissue, wiping, safety and nonwoven materials. Consolidated research and development expense was $368 in 2014, $333 in 2013 and $335 in 2012.

  2KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2014 Annual Report

Foreign Market Risks

We operate and market our products globally, and our business strategy includes targeted growth in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with a particular emphasis in China, Eastern Europe and Latin America. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for a discussion of foreign market risks that may affect our financial results.

Environmental Matters

Total worldwide capital expenditures for voluntary environmental controls or controls necessary to comply with legal requirements relating to the protection of the environment at our facilities are expected to be as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total worldwide operating expenses for environmental compliance, including pollution control equipment operation and maintenance costs, governmental payments, and research and engineering costs are expected to be as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. Current environmental spending estimates could be modified as a result of changes in our plans, changes in legal requirements, including any requirements related to global climate change, or other factors.

Employees

In our worldwide consolidated operations, we had approximately 43,000 employees as of December 31, 2014.

Available Information

We make financial information, news releases and other information available on our corporate website at www.kimberly-clark.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on this website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the SEC. Stockholders may also contact Stockholder Services, P.O. Box 612606, Dallas, Texas 75261-2606 or call 972-281-1522 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS