Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Introduction.  

Morgan Stanley, a financial holding company, is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley” and the “Company” mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

A summary of the activities of each of the Company’s business segments is as follows:  

Institutional Securities provides capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; and investment activities.  

Global Wealth Management Group, which includes the Company’s 51% interest in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC (“MSSB”), provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services and engages in fixed income principal trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading or investments in such securities.  

Asset Management provides a broad array of investment strategies that span the risk/return spectrum across geographies, asset classes and public and private markets to a diverse group of clients across the institutional and intermediary channels as well as high net worth clients.  

See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company’s discontinued operations.  

The results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”)), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), and legal actions in the United States of America (“U.S.”) and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income, and commodity prices and interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to the Company’s unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of the Company’s acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including MSSB and with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (“MUFG”)); the Company’s reputation; inflation, natural disasters and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations and technological changes; or a combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the Company’s businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. These factors also may have an impact on the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the Company’s business, see “Business—Competition” and “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, and “Other Matters” herein.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Executive Summary.  

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

47  

Table of Contents 

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts)—(Continued).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

48  

Table of Contents 

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts)—(Continued).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

N/M—Not Meaningful.  

N/A—Not Applicable. Information is not comparable.  

 (1) Information includes MSSB effective from May 31, 2009 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).  

 (2) See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements for information on discontinued operations.  

 (3) For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”), see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (4) Regional net revenues include the impact of the fluctuation in the Company’s credit spreads and other credit factors (“Debt-Related Credit Spreads”) on certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, (“Borrowings”) that are accounted for at fair value.  

 (5) Average common equity is a non-Generally Accepted Accounting Principle (“GAAP”) financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess operating performance. The computation of average common equity for each business segment is determined using the Company’s Required Capital framework (“Required Capital Framework”), an internal capital adequacy measure (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Required Capital” herein). The Required Capital Framework will evolve over time to respond to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. The Company continues to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein for further information on risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards, known as “Basel III,” which were proposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”) in December 2009). The calculation of return on average common equity uses income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of average common equity. For 2011, the negative adjustment related to the MUFG stock conversion (see “Executive Summary–Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein) of $1,726 million was included in the calculation of the return on average common equity. Excluding this negative adjustment, the return on average common equity for 2011 would have been 12% for the Institutional Securities business segment; 8% for the Global Wealth Management Group business segment; and 1% for the Asset Management business segment. See “Liquidity and Capital Resource—Required Capital” herein for more information on the calculation of the average common equity by business segment. The effective tax rates used in the computation of business segment return on average common equity were determined on a separate entity basis. Excluding the effects of the aggregate discrete tax benefit for 2011, the return on average common equity for the Institutional Securities business segment would have been 5%, (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items” herein).  

 (6) Book value per common share equals common shareholders’ equity of $60,541 million at December 31, 2011, $47,614 million at December 31, 2010 and $37,091 million at December 31, 2009 divided by common shares outstanding of 1,927 million at December 31, 2011, 1,512 million at December 31, 2010 and 1,361 million at December 31, 2009. Book value per common share in 2011 was reduced by approximately $2.61 per share as a result of the MUFG stock conversion (see “Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein). Book value per common share in 2010 included a benefit of approximately $1.40 per share due to the issuance of 116 million shares of common stock in 2010 corresponding to the mandatory redemption of the junior subordinated debentures underlying $5.6 billion of equity units (see “Other Matters—Redemption of CIC Equity Units and Issuance of Common Stock” herein).  

 (7) Tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy. For a discussion of tangible common equity, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—The Balance Sheet” herein.  

 (8) Tangible book value per common share is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy. Tangible book value per common share equals tangible common equity divided by period-end common shares outstanding.  

 (9) For a discussion of the effective income tax rate, see “Executive Summary—Significant Items” herein.  

 (10) For a discussion of average liquidity, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Trading Management—Global Liquidity Reserve” herein.  

 (11)  On December 30, 2011, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) formalized regulatory definitions for Tier 1 common capital and Tier 1 common capital ratio. The Company’s conformance to the Federal Reserve’s definition under the  

49  

Table of Contents 

     final rule reduced its Tier 1 common capital and Tier 1 common ratio by approximately $4.2 billion and 132 basis points, respectively, at December 31, 2011. The Company’s Total capital ratio, Tier 1 common capital ratio and Tier 1 capital ratio at December 31, 2010 and 2009 have also been adjusted based on revised guidance from the Federal Reserve about the Company’s capital treatment for over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivative collateral. For a discussion of Total capital ratio, Tier 1 common capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and Tier 1 leverage ratio, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein.  

 (12) Revenues and expenses associated with these assets are included in the Company’s Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management business segments.  

 (13) Amounts exclude the Asset Management business segment’s proportionate share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.  

 (14) Pre-tax profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess operating performance. Percentages represent income from continuing operations before income taxes as a percentage of net revenues.  

 (15) As the business finalizes the integration of its legacy Morgan Stanley and Smith Barney channels in 2012, it is harmonizing what were previously different job descriptions for various licensed roles involved in serving the Company’s clients. This adjustment will be reflected in the prospective reporting of global representative headcount as role definition differences are eliminated in the combined sales organization. Amounts represent global representative headcount and productivity metrics reflecting this adjustment.  

 (16) Annualized net revenues per global representative for 2011, 2010 and 2009 equals Global Wealth Management Group’s net revenues divided by the quarterly weighted average global representative headcount for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

 (17) Client assets per global representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end global representative headcount.  

 (18) Approximately $56 billion, $55 billion and $54 billion of the bank deposit balances at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, are held at Company-affiliated depositories with the remainder held at Citigroup, Inc. (“Citi”) affiliated depositories. These deposit balances are held at certain of the Company’s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) insured depository institutions for the benefit of the Company’s clients through their accounts. For additional information regarding the Company’s deposits, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements and “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Funding Management—Deposits” herein.  

Global Market and Economic Conditions.  

During 2011, global market and economic conditions were negatively impacted by concerns about the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, the U.S. federal debt ceiling and slower economic growth. Global equity markets were volatile in 2011 as investors reacted to slowing global economic growth and the deepening sovereign debt crisis in the European region.  

In the U.S., the Dow Jones Industrial Index rose 5.5%; however, most of the other major equity market indices ended 2011 lower compared with the beginning of the year, primarily due to investors’ anxiety about the continued European sovereign debt crisis, a U.S. economy facing the prospect of a double-dip recession and signs of slowing economies in emerging markets. Despite the slowing growth in foreign economies and strains in global financial markets, U.S. economic activity expanded moderately in 2011. Conditions in the labor market improved modestly as the unemployment rate decreased to 8.5% at December 31, 2011 from 9.4% at December 31, 2010. However, certain sectors of the residential real estate market and investments in commercial real estate projects remained challenged in 2011. Growth in consumer spending accelerated in the second half of the year. Inflation rose during the first half of 2011 and moderated during the second half of 2011, primarily reflecting lower prices for certain commodities and imported goods. Concerns about weakening crude oil demand due to slowing economic recovery contributed to a drop in prices of oil and other commodities in the second half of 2011. The U.S. federal debt ceiling, the need for deficit reductions, unbalanced budgets and underfunded public pension liabilities remained critical focus items at the federal, state and local levels of government during 2011. The Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) of the Federal Reserve kept key interest rates at historically low levels, and at December 31, 2011, the federal funds target rate was between zero and 0.25%, and the discount rate was 0.75%. In an effort to lower long-term interest rates and to support economic growth, in September 2011 the FOMC began to purchase $400 billion of U.S. Treasury securities with maturities between six and 30 years and to sell an equal amount of Treasury securities with maturities of three years or less. In January 2012, the FOMC announced that key interest rates will likely remain at historically low levels at least through late 2014.  

In Europe, real gross domestic product growth remained moderate in 2011. Major European equity market indices ended 2011 lower compared with the beginning of the year, primarily due to adverse economic developments, including investors’ growing concerns about the sovereign debt crisis, especially in Greece,  

50  

Table of Contents 

 Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain (the “European Peripherals”), and the sovereign debt exposures in the European banking system. The euro area unemployment rate increased to 10.4% at December 31, 2011 from 10.0% a year ago. At December 31, 2011, the European Central Bank’s (“ECB”) benchmark interest rate was 1.00%, and the Bank of England’s (“BOE”) benchmark interest rate was 0.50%, both of which were unchanged from a year ago. In 2011, the BOE increased the size of its quantitative easing program by £75 billion to £275 billion in order to inject further monetary stimulus into the economy in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”). To stabilize the European banking system during the sovereign debt crisis, the ECB initiated a number of actions during the fourth quarter of 2011. The ECB made longer-term loans available to banks in exchange for posting of adequate collateral in October and December of 2011 for maturities up to 13 months, ensuring that European banks have unlimited financing into 2013. Starting in November 2011, the ECB also bought €40 billion in European bank bonds backed by mortgages and other assets, known as covered bonds, a key source of funds for banks. On October 27, 2011, leaders of 17 European Union countries announced a financial relief plan that involves a write-off of certain sovereign debt by European banks and other measures aimed to resolve the European sovereign debt crisis. In December 2011, European leaders agreed to sign an inter-government treaty that would require them to enforce stricter fiscal and financial discipline in their future budgets. In January and February 2012, rating agencies downgraded the credit ratings for several euro-zone countries.  

In Asia, major stock markets closed out 2011 sharply lower compared with the beginning of the year, primarily due to investors’ concerns over the sovereign debt crisis in Europe and slowing economic growth in Asia. Japan’s economy continued to recover from the adverse impact of the earthquake and tsunami in March of 2011. In 2011, the Bank of Japan enhanced monetary easing by increasing the size of the asset purchase program to 50 trillion yen from 40 trillion yen. Japan’s benchmark interest rate remained within a range of zero to 0.1% during 2011. China’s gross domestic product growth moderated during 2011 as import and export growth slowed sharply after domestic tightening measures and global economic turmoil impacted consumption. To combat rising inflation, the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”) raised benchmark interest rates by 0.25% three times in 2011. In December 2011, in order to stimulate the Chinese economy, the PBOC cut its bank reserve requirement by 0.5%.  

Overview of 2011 Financial Results.  

Consolidated Results. The Company recorded net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $4,110 million on net revenues of $32,403 million in 2011, compared with $4,703 million of net income applicable to Morgan Stanley and net revenues of $31,387 million in 2010.  

Net revenues in 2011 included positive revenue of $3,681 million, or $1.34 per diluted share, due to the impact of the widening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value, compared with negative revenues of $873 million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value. Results for 2011 included the settlement with MBIA Insurance Corporation (“MBIA”), which resulted in a pre-tax loss of approximately $1.7 billion. In addition, the Company recorded a pre-tax loss of approximately $783 million arising from its 40% stake in Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (“MUMSS”). See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Income Tax Benefits,” “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture,” and “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Monoline Insurers,” herein. Non-interest expenses increased 5% to $26,289 million in 2011. Non-compensation expenses increased 7% in 2011.  

Diluted EPS and diluted EPS from continuing operations were $1.23 and $1.26 in 2011, respectively, compared with $2.63 and $2.45, respectively, in 2010. The earnings per share calculation for 2011 included a negative adjustment of approximately $1.7 billion, or $0.98 per diluted share (calculated using 1.79 billion diluted average shares outstanding under the if-converted method), related to the conversion of MUFG’s outstanding Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series B Preferred Stock”) into the Company’s common stock. See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein.  

51  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s effective tax rates from continuing operations were 23.2% and 12.1% for 2011 and 2010, respectively. The effective tax rates included aggregate discrete tax benefits of $484 million and $997 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. Excluding these discrete tax benefits, the effective tax rates from continuing operations in 2011 and 2010 would have been 31.1% and 28.1%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily reflective of the geographic mix of earnings. For further discussion of the current and prior year discrete tax benefits, see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Income Tax Benefits” herein.  

Institutional Securities. Income from continuing operations before income taxes was $4,585 million in 2011 compared with $4,372 million in 2010. Net revenues were $17,208 million in 2011 compared with $16,169 million in 2010. Investment banking revenues for 2011 decreased 2% to $4,228 million from 2010, reflecting lower revenues from equity and fixed income underwriting transactions, partially offset by higher advisory revenues. Investment banking revenues were also impacted by the contribution in 2010 of the majority of the Company’s Japanese investment banking business as a result of a transaction with MUFG (see “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). Equity sales and trading revenues increased 40% to $6,770 million in 2011. The increase was due to higher revenues, primarily reflecting higher levels of client activity, higher average client balances and positive revenue of $619 million due to the impact of the widening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value compared with negative revenue of approximately $121 million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credits Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value. Fixed income and commodities sales and trading revenues increased 27% to $7,507 million in 2011 compared with $5,900 million in 2010. Results in 2011 included positive revenue of $3,062 million due to the impact of the widening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value, compared with negative revenues of $703 million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value. Fixed income revenues were negatively impacted by losses of $1,838 million from Monoline Insurers (“Monolines”) compared with losses of $865 million in 2010. The results in 2011 included the $1.7 billion settlement with MBIA (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Monoline Insurers,” herein). The results in 2011 also included approximately $600 million primarily related to the release of credit valuation adjustments upon the restructuring of certain derivatives transactions which decreased its exposure to the European Peripherals. Other sales and trading net losses of $1.3 billion primarily reflected losses associated with corporate lending activity and costs related to liquidity held. Principal transactions net investment gains of $239 million were recognized in 2011 compared with net investment gains of $809 million in 2010. Other losses of $207 million were recognized in 2011 compared with other revenues of $766 million in 2010. In 2011, pre-tax losses of approximately $783 million were from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS, partially offset by gains from the Company’s retirement of its debt. Non-interest expenses increased 7% and Compensation and benefits expenses increased 3% in 2011. Non-compensation expenses increased 12% in 2011, which included a 44% increase in Other expenses. The increase in Other expenses was primarily due to the initial costs of $130 million associated with Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Company Limited, and a charge of $59 million due to the bank levy on relevant liabilities and equities on the consolidated balance sheets of “U.K. Banking Groups,” at December 31, 2011 as defined under the bank levy legislation enacted by the U.K. government in July 2011 (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—U.K. Matters” herein for further information).  

Global Wealth Management Group. Income from continuing operations before income taxes was $1,276 million in 2011 compared with $1,156 million in 2010. Net revenues were $13,423 million in 2011 compared with $12,636 million in 2010. Investment banking revenues decreased 9% to $750 million in 2011, primarily due to lower equity and fixed income underwriting activities. Principal transactions trading revenues decreased 14% to $1,122 million in 2011, primarily due to losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and lower revenues from corporate equity and fixed income securities, government securities and structured notes, partially offset by higher revenues from municipal securities, derivatives and unit trusts. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 8% to $6,884 million in 2011, primarily  

52  

Table of Contents 

 due to higher fee-based revenues, partially offset by lower revenues as a result of the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program. Net interest increased 32% to $1,483 million in 2011, primarily resulting from an increase in Interest income due to interest on the securities available for sale portfolio and mortgages and the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program. Other revenues increased 22% to $410 million in 2011, primarily due to gains on sales of securities available for sale. Non-interest expenses increased 6% to $12,147 million in 2011.  

Asset Management. Income from continuing operations before income taxes was $253 million in 2011 compared with $718 million in 2010. Net revenues were $1,887 million in 2011 compared with $2,685 million in 2010. Principal transactions net investment gains were $330 million in 2011 compared with gains of $996 million in 2010. The decrease in 2011 was primarily related to lower net gains in the Company’s Merchant Banking and Traditional Asset Management businesses, including certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans, as well as lower net investment gains associated with certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 3% to $1,582 million in 2011, primarily reflecting lower performance fees and fund management and administration fees, primarily due to the absence of FrontPoint Partners LLC (“FrontPoint”) for ten months of the current year. Non-interest expenses decreased 17% to $1,634 million in 2011, primarily reflecting a decrease in compensation expenses.  

Significant Items.  

Morgan Stanley Debt. Net revenues reflected positive revenues of $3,681 million in 2011 and negative revenues of $873 million and $5.5 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to the impact of changes in the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value.  

In addition, in 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded gains (losses) of approximately $155 million, $(27) million and $491 million, respectively, related to the Company’s retirement of its debt. The results in 2009 also reflected the amortization of the value of the de-designated hedges related to the Company’s retirement of its debt.  

Monoline Insurers. The results for 2011 included losses of $1,838 million related to the Company’s counterparty credit exposures to Monolines, principally MBIA, compared with losses of $865 million in 2010 and $232 million in 2009.  

On December 13, 2011, the Company announced a comprehensive settlement with MBIA. The settlement terminated outstanding credit default swap (“CDS”) protection purchased from MBIA on commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) and resolved pending litigation between the two parties for consideration of a net cash payment to the Company. The pre-tax loss on the settlement, which was recorded as a reduction to Fixed income and commodities revenue, approximated $1.7 billion ($1.1 billion after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2011. The settlement has the effect of significantly reducing risk-weighted assets under the Basel Committee’s proposed Basel III framework, thereby increasing the pro forma Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III by approximately 75 basis points by the end of 2012. The pro forma Tier 1 common capital ratio under Basel III is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy. The Basel III estimates are preliminary and may change based on guidelines for implementation to be issued by the Federal Reserve. Under current Basel I standards, the Tier 1 common ratio was reduced by approximately 20 basis points.  

MUFG Stock Conversion. On June 30, 2011, MUFG’s outstanding Series B Preferred Stock with a face value of $7.8 billion (carrying value $8.1 billion) and a 10% dividend was converted into 385,464,097 shares of the Company’s common stock, including approximately 75 million shares resulting from the adjustment to the conversion ratio pursuant to the transaction agreement. As a result of the adjustment to the conversion ratio, the Company incurred a one-time, non-cash negative adjustment of approximately $1.7 billion in its calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share during 2011. As a result of the conversion, MUFG did not receive the previously declared dividend that otherwise would have been payable on July 15, 2011 with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Japanese Securities Joint Venture. During 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded losses of $783 million and $62 million, respectively, within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS (see Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements). See “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information.  

Corporate Lending. The Company recorded the following amounts primarily associated with loans and lending commitments carried at fair value within the Institutional Securities business segment (see “Business Segments—Institutional Securities—Sales and Trading Revenues” herein):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Amounts include realized and unrealized gains (losses).  

European Peripheral Countries. On December 22, 2011, the Company entered into agreements to restructure certain derivative transactions which decreased its exposure to the European Peripherals. As a result, the Company’s results included approximately $600 million related primarily to the release of credit valuation adjustments associated with the transactions, reported within Principal transactions—Trading in the consolidated statement of income (see Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk—Country Risk Exposure,” herein). 

Real Estate Investments. The Company recorded gains (losses) in the following business segments related to real estate investments. These amounts exclude investments associated with certain deferred compensation and employee co-investment plans.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Amounts for 2011 include a tax benefit related to Revel Entertainment Group, LLC (“Revel”) (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Income Tax Benefits” herein), and net realized and unrealized gains (losses) from the Company’s limited partnership investments in real estate funds.  

 (2) On February 17, 2011, the Company completed the sale of Revel. The results of Revel are reported as discontinued operations within the Institutional Securities business segment for all periods presented through the date of sale. In the Asset Management business segment, the amount related to the disposition of Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited Partnership (“Crescent”), which was disposed of in the fourth quarter of 2009. See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (3) Gains (losses) related to net realized and unrealized gains (losses) from real estate limited partnership investments in the Company’s Real Estate Investing business and are reflected in Principal transactions—Investments in the consolidated statements of income. Amounts also include net gains associated with the Company’s investment in Infrastructure funds.  

54  

Table of Contents 

See “Other Matters—Real Estate” herein for further information.  

Income Tax Benefits. In 2011, the Company recognized a discrete tax benefit of $447 million from the remeasurement of a deferred tax asset and the reversal of a related valuation allowance. The deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were recognized in income from discontinued operations in 2010 in connection with the recognition of a $1.2 billion loss due to writedowns and related costs following the Company’s commitment to a plan to dispose of Revel. The Company recorded the valuation allowance because the Company did not believe it was more likely than not that it would have sufficient future net capital gain to realize the benefit of the expected capital loss to be recognized upon the disposal of Revel. During the quarter ended March 31, 2011, the disposal of Revel was restructured as a tax-free like kind exchange and the disposal was completed. The restructured transaction changed the character of the future taxable loss to ordinary. The Company reversed the valuation allowance because the Company believes it is more likely than not that it will have sufficient future ordinary taxable income to recognize the recorded deferred tax asset. In accordance with the applicable accounting literature, this reversal of a previously established valuation allowance due to a change in circumstances was recognized in income from continuing operations during the quarter ended March 31, 2011. Additionally, in 2011 the Company recognized a discrete tax benefit of $137 million related to the reversal of U.S. deferred tax liabilities associated with prior-years’ undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were determined to be indefinitely reinvested abroad, and a discrete tax cost of $100 million related to the remeasurement of Japan deferred tax assets as a result of a decrease in the local statutory income tax rates starting in 2012.  

In 2010, the Company recognized discrete tax benefits of $382 million related to the reversal of U.S. deferred tax liabilities associated with prior-years’ undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were determined to be indefinitely reinvested abroad, $345 million associated with the remeasurement of net unrecognized tax benefits and related interest based on new information regarding the status of federal and state examinations, and $277 million associated with the planned repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at a cost lower than originally estimated.  

Huaxin Securities Joint Venture. In June 2011, the Company and Huaxin Securities Co., Ltd. (“Huaxin Securities”) (also known as China Fortune Securities Co., Ltd.) jointly announced the operational commencement of their securities joint venture in China. During 2011, the Company recorded initial costs of $130 million related to the formation of this joint venture in Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income.  

The joint venture, Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Company Limited, is registered and principally located in Shanghai. Huaxin Securities holds a two-thirds interest in the joint venture while the Company owns a one-third interest. The establishment of the joint venture allows the Company to further build on its established onshore businesses in China. The joint venture’s businesses include underwriting and sponsorship of shares in the domestic China market (including A shares and foreign investment shares) as well as underwriting, sponsorship and principal trading of bonds (including government and corporate bonds).  

OIS Fair Value Measurement. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company began using the overnight indexed swap (“OIS”) curve as an input to value its collateralized interest rate derivative contracts. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recognized a pre-tax loss of approximately $108 million in Principal transactions—Trading upon application of the OIS curve to certain additional fixed income products within the Institutional Securities business segment. Previously, the Company discounted these contracts based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). At December 31, 2011, substantially all of the Company’s collateralized derivative contracts were valued using the OIS curve. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $176 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 in Principal transactions—Trading upon the initial application of the OIS curve.  

U.K. Matters. In July 2011, the U.K. Government enacted legislation imposing a bank levy on relevant liabilities and equities at December 31, 2011 on the consolidated balance sheets of banks and banking groups operating in the U.K. The Company has accrued a levy charge of $59 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The levy is not deductible for U.K. corporation tax purposes. During 2010, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $272 million in Compensation and benefits expense relating to the U.K. government’s payroll tax on discretionary above-base compensation.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Goodwill and Intangibles. Impairment charges related to goodwill and intangible assets were $7 million, $201 million and $16 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The impairment charges for 2010 included $193 million related to FrontPoint. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Mortgage-Related Trading. The Company recorded mortgage-related trading gains (losses) primarily related to commercial mortgage-backed securities, U.S. subprime mortgage proprietary trading exposures and non-subprime residential mortgages of $1.2 billion and $(0.6) billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Settlement with DFS. On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off of its business segment Discover Financial Services (“DFS”) to its shareholders. On February 11, 2010, DFS paid the Company $775 million in complete satisfaction of its obligations to the Company regarding the sharing of proceeds from a lawsuit against Visa and MasterCard. The payment was recorded as a gain in discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of income for 2010.  

Gain on Sale of Noncontrolling Interest. In connection with the transaction between the Company and MUFG to form a joint venture in Japan, the Company recorded an after-tax gain of $731 million from the sale of a noncontrolling interest in its Japanese institutional securities business. This gain was recorded in Paid-in capital in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition at December 31, 2010 and changes in total equity for 2010. See “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information.  

Gain on Sale of Retail Asset Management. On June 1, 2010, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of its retail asset management business (“Retail Asset Management”), including Van Kampen Investments, Inc. (“Van Kampen”), to Invesco Ltd. (“Invesco”). The Company received $800 million in cash and approximately 30.9 million shares of Invesco stock upon sale, resulting in a cumulative after-tax gain of $710 million, of which $28 million and $570 million were recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The remaining gain, representing tax basis benefits, was recorded in the quarter ended December 31, 2009. The results of Retail Asset Management are reported as discontinued operations within the Asset Management business segment for all periods presented through the date of sale. The Company recorded the 30.9 million shares as securities available for sale and subsequently sold the shares in the fourth quarter of 2010, resulting in a realized gain of approximately $102 million reported within Other revenues in the consolidated statement of income for 2010.  

Sale of Stake in CICC. In December 2010, the Company completed the sale of its 34.3% stake in China International Capital Corporation (“CICC”) for a pre-tax gain of approximately $668 million, which is included within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income for 2010. See Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Sale of Bankruptcy Claims. In 2009, the Company recorded a gain of $319 million related to the sale of undivided participating interests in a portion of the Company’s claims against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy protection (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements).  

MSCI. In May 2009, the Company divested all of its remaining ownership interest in MSCI Inc. (“MSCI”). The gain on sale, net of taxes, was approximately $279 million related to the secondary offerings for 2009. The results of MSCI are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of sale. The results of MSCI were formerly included in the continuing operations of the Institutional Securities business segment.  

Business Segments.  

Substantially all of the Company’s operating revenues and operating expenses can be directly attributed to its business segments. Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective revenues or other relevant measures.  

56  

Table of Contents 

As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company’s consolidated results. Intersegment Eliminations also reflect the effect of fees paid by the Institutional Securities business segment to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment related to the bank deposit program. The Company did not recognize any Intersegment Elimination gains or losses in 2011. Losses from continuing operations before income taxes recorded in Intersegment Eliminations were $15 million and $11 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Net Revenues.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. Principal transactions—Trading revenues include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company’s positions, as well as proprietary trading activities for its own account. Principal transactions—Trading revenues includes the realized gains and losses from sales of cash instruments and derivative settlements, unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company’s positions related to market-making activities, and gains and losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. In many markets, the realized and unrealized gains and losses from the purchase and sale transactions will include any spreads between bids and offers. Certain fees received on loans carried at fair value and dividends from equity securities are also recorded in this line item since they relate to market-making positions. Commissions received for purchasing and selling listed equity securities and options are recorded separately in the Commissions and fees line item. Other cash and derivative instruments typically do not have fees associated with them and fees for related services would be recorded in Commissions and fees.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. The Company’s investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. In some cases, such investments are required or are a necessary part of offering other products. The revenues recorded are the result of realized gains and losses from sales and unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company’s holdings as well as from investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Typically, there are no fee revenues from these investments. The sales restrictions on the investments relate primarily to redemption and withdrawal restrictions on investments in real estate funds, hedge funds, and private equity funds, which include investments made in connection with certain employee deferred compensation plans (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Restrictions on interests in exchanges and clearinghouses generally include a requirement to hold those interests for the period of time that the Company is clearing trades on that exchange or clearinghouse. Additionally, there are certain principal investments related to assets held by consolidated real estate funds, which are primarily related to holders of noncontrolling interests.  

Commissions and Fees. Commission and fee revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities, services related to sales and trading activities, and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees include fees associated with the management and supervision of assets, account services and administration, performance-based fees relating to certain funds, separately managed accounts, shareholder servicing, and the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment also include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees for investment management. Mutual fund distribution fees in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.  

57  

Table of Contents 

Asset management fees in the Asset Management business segment arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees in the Asset Management business segment are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.  

Net Interest. Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, securities available for sale, securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, loans, deposits, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, long-term borrowings, trading strategies, customer activity in the Company’s prime brokerage business, and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell (“reverse repurchase agreements”) and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (“repurchase agreements”) and Securities borrowed and Securities loaned transactions may be entered into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions.  

Market Making.  

As a market maker, the Company stands ready to buy, sell or otherwise transact with customers under a variety of market conditions and provide firm or indicative prices in response to customer requests. The Company’s liquidity obligations can be explicit and obligatory in some cases, and in others, customers expect the Company to be willing to transact with them. In order to most effectively fulfill its market-making function, the Company engages in activities, across all of its trading businesses, that include, but are not limited to, (i) taking positions in anticipation of, and in response to customer demand to buy or sell, and—depending on the liquidity of the relevant market and the size of the position—holding those positions for a period of time; (ii) managing and assuming basis risk (risk associated with imperfect hedging) between customized customer risks and the standardized products available in the market to hedge those risks; (iii) building, maintaining, and re-balancing inventory, through trades with other market participants, and engaging in accumulation activities to accommodate anticipated customer demand; (iv) trading in the market to remain current on pricing and trends; and (v) engaging in other activities to provide efficiency and liquidity for markets. Interest income and expense are also impacted by market-making activities as debt securities held by the Company earn interest and securities are loaned, borrowed, sold with agreement to repurchase and purchased with agreement to resell.  

58  

Table of Contents 

INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Noncontrolling Interests.  

Noncontrolling interests primarily relate to the Japanese securities joint venture with MUFG (see “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein).  

Discontinued Operations. On October 24, 2011, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement to sell Saxon, a provider of servicing and subservicing of residential mortgage loans, to Ocwen Financial Corporation. The transaction is expected to close during the first quarter of 2012. The results of Saxon are reported as discontinued operations within the Institutional Securities business segment for all periods presented.  

59  

Table of Contents 

On February 17, 2011, the Company completed the sale of Revel. The sale price approximated the carrying value of Revel at the time of disposal and, accordingly, the Company did not recognize any pre-tax gain or loss on the sale. The results of Revel are reported as discontinued operations within the Institutional Securities business segment for all periods presented through the date of sale. Results for 2010 included losses of approximately $1.2 billion in connection with writedowns and related costs of such disposition. For further information on Revel, see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Income Tax Benefits” herein and Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.  

In the third quarter of 2010, the Company completed the disposal of CityMortgage Bank (“CMB”), a Moscow-based mortgage bank. The results of CMB are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of sale within the Institutional Securities business segment.  

In May 2009, the Company divested all of its remaining ownership in MSCI. The results of MSCI are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of sale within the Institutional Securities business segment.  

Supplemental Financial Information. 

Investment Banking. 

Investment banking revenues are composed of fees from advisory services and revenues from the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans, net of syndication expenses.  

Investment banking revenues were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table presents the Company’s volumes of announced and completed mergers and acquisitions, equity and equity-related offerings, and fixed income offerings:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Source: Thomson Reuters, data at January 17-18, 2012. Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity-related offerings and fixed income offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent withdrawal or change in the value of a transaction.  

 (2) Amounts include transactions of $100 million or more and exclude terminated transactions.  

 (3) Amounts include Rule 144A and public common stock offerings, convertible offerings and rights offerings.  

 (4) Amounts include non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt. Amounts also include publicly registered and Rule 144A issues. Amounts exclude leveraged loans and self-led issuances.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Sales and Trading.  

Sales and trading revenues are composed of Principal transactions—Trading revenues; Commissions and fees; Asset management, distribution and administration fees; and Net interest revenues (expenses). See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for further information about what is included in sales and trading revenues. In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views these net revenues in the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to principal transactions are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions and fees, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company’s positions, and other related expenses. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further information related to gains (losses) on derivative instruments.  

Sales and trading revenues were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

Sales and Trading Reorganization. Effective March 31, 2011, the Institutional Securities business segment’s “fixed income” business has been renamed the “fixed income and commodities” business. The interest rate, credit and currency business has been renamed the “fixed income” business. These name changes did not affect current or previously reported results for these businesses.  

Sales and trading revenues were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

 (2) Other sales and trading net revenues include net gains (losses) from certain loans and lending commitments and related hedges associated with the Company’s lending activities. Other sales and trading net revenues also include gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term debt and net losses associated with costs related to the amount of liquidity held (“negative carry”).  

2011 Compared with 2010.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues in 2011 decreased 2% from 2010, reflecting lower revenues from equity and fixed income underwriting transactions, partially offset by higher advisory revenues. Overall, underwriting revenues of $2,491 million decreased 12% from 2010, reflecting lower levels of market activity. Investment banking revenues were also impacted by the contribution in 2010 of the majority of the Company’s Japanese investment banking business as a result of a transaction with MUFG (see “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). Equity underwriting revenues decreased 22% to $1,132 million in 2011. Fixed income underwriting revenues decreased 1% to $1,359 million in 2011. Advisory revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,737 million in 2011, an increase of 18% from 2010, reflecting higher levels of completed activity.  

61  

Table of Contents 

Sales and Trading Revenues. Total sales and trading revenues increased to $12,948 million in 2011 from $10,299 million in 2010, reflecting higher equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading revenues, partially offset by higher losses in other sales and trading revenues.  

Equity. Equity sales and trading revenues increased 40% to $6,770 million in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher revenues in the derivatives business, the Company’s electronic trading platform and prime brokerage. The increase in the derivatives business and the Company’s electronic trading platform primarily reflected higher levels of client activity. The increase in prime brokerage net revenues was primarily due to higher average client balances. The results in equity sales and trading revenues also included positive revenue in 2011 of $619 million due to the impact of the widening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value compared with negative revenue of $121 million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value.  

In 2011, equity sales and trading revenues also reflected unrealized losses of $38 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of counterparties’ credit default swap spreads and other credit factors compared with unrealized gains of $20 million in 2010 due to the tightening of counterparties’ credit default swap spreads and other credit factors. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of $182 million in 2011 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads and other credit factors compared with unrealized gains of $31 million in 2010. The unrealized gains and losses on credit default swap spreads and other credit factors do not reflect any gains or losses on related hedging instruments.  

Fixed Income and Commodities. Fixed income and commodities sales and trading revenues increased 27% to $7,507 million in 2011 from $5,900 million in 2010. Results in 2011 included positive revenue of $3,062 million due to the impact of the widening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that are accounted for at fair value, compared with negative revenues of $703 million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value. Fixed income revenues, excluding the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings, in 2011 decreased 30% over 2010. Results in 2011 were negatively impacted by losses of $1,838 million from Monolines compared with losses of $865 million in 2010. On December 13, 2011, the Company announced a comprehensive settlement with MBIA. The loss on the settlement was approximately $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011 (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Monoline Insurers” herein for further information). The results in 2011 also reflected lower revenues in credit products due to the stressed credit environment and lower revenues in currency products, partially offset by higher revenues in interest rate products due to higher levels of market volatility and client activity and approximately $600 million primarily related to the release of credit valuation adjustments upon the restructuring of certain derivative transactions which decreased its exposure to the European Peripherals (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—European Peripheral Countries” herein for further information). Commodity revenues, excluding the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings, decreased 18% in 2011, primarily due to lower levels of client activity, including structured transactions. Results in the fourth quarter of 2011 included a loss of approximately $108 million upon application of the OIS curve to certain fixed income products. Results in 2010 included a gain of approximately $123 million related to a change in the fair value measurement methodology to use the OIS curve as an input to value substantially all collateralized interest rate derivative contracts (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” herein and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).  

In 2011, fixed income and commodities sales and trading revenues reflected net unrealized gains of $1,625 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ credit default swap spreads and other credit factors compared with unrealized gains of $603 million in 2010. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of $1,750 million in 2011 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads and other credit factors compared with gains of $287 million in 2010. The unrealized gains and losses on credit default swap spreads and other credit factors do not reflect any gains or losses on related hedging instruments.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Other. In addition to the equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading revenues discussed above, sales and trading revenues included other trading revenues, consisting of certain activities associated with the Company’s lending activities, gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term debt and negative carry. The fair value measurement of loans and lending commitments takes into account fee income that is considered an attribute of the contract. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or if the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. During 2011, the Company, in accordance with its risk management practices, accounted for certain new loans and lending commitments as held for investment. Mark-to-market valuations were not recorded for these loans and lending commitments, but they were evaluated for collectability and an allowance for credit losses was recorded. Other sales and trading also includes costs related to negative carry.  

In 2011, other sales and trading revenues reflected a net loss of $1,329 million compared with a net loss of $441 million in 2010. Results in 2011 included net losses of $620 million associated with loans and lending commitments (mark-to-market valuations and realized losses of $688 million and gains on related hedges of $68 million). The results in 2011 also included higher net losses related to negative carry. Results in 2010 also included a gain of approximately $53 million related to the OIS curve fair value methodology referred to above (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Net Interest. Net interest expense increased to $1,085 million in 2011 from $233 million in 2010 primarily due to higher interest expenses that resulted from increased interest rates associated with the Company’s long term borrowings and stock lending transactions.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for further information on what is included in Principal transactions—Investments.  

Principal transaction net investment gains of $239 million were recognized in 2011 compared with net investment gains of $809 million in 2010. Results in both periods reflected gains in principal investments in real estate funds and investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and co-investment plans. The results for 2010 also reflected a gain of $313 million on a principal investment held by a consolidated investment partnership, which was sold in 2010. The portion of the gain related to third-party investors amounted to $183 million and was recorded in the net income applicable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statement of income.  

Other. Other losses of $207 million were recognized in 2011 compared with other revenues of $766 million in 2010. The results in 2011 primarily included pre-tax losses of approximately $783 million arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein), partially offset by gains from the Company’s retirement of its long-term debt. Results in 2010 included a pre-tax gain of $668 million from the sale of the Company’s investment in CICC, partially offset by pre-tax losses of approximately $62 million arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 7% in 2011. The increase was due to higher compensation expenses and higher non-compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 3% in 2011. Compensation and benefits expenses in 2010 included a non-recurring charge of approximately $269 million related to the U.K. government’s payroll tax on discretionary above-base compensation in 2010. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 14% in 2011, primarily due to higher levels of business activity. Information processing and communications expense increased 13% in 2011, primarily due to ongoing investments in technology. Professional services expenses decreased 9% in 2011, primarily due to lower legal fees and consulting expenses. Other expenses increased 44% in 2011, primarily due to the initial costs of $130 million associated with Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Company Limited and a charge of $59 million due to the bank levy on relevant liabilities and equities on the consolidated balance sheets of “U.K. Banking Groups” at  

63  

Table of Contents 

 December 31, 2011 as defined under the bank levy legislation enacted by the U.K. government in July 2011 (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—U.K. Matters” herein for further information). Other expenses in 2010 included $102.7 million related to the Assurance of Discontinuance between the Company and the Office of the Attorney General for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (“Massachusetts OAG”) to resolve the Massachusetts OAG’s investigation of the Company’s financing, purchase and securitization of certain subprime residential mortgages.  

2010 Compared with 2009.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues decreased 4% in 2010 from 2009, reflecting lower revenues from equity underwriting and lower advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions, partially offset by higher revenues from fixed income underwriting. Investment banking revenues were also impacted by the contribution in 2010 of the majority of the Company’s Japanese investment banking business as a result of a transaction with MUFG (see “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). Overall, underwriting revenues of $2,825 million decreased 5% from 2009. Equity underwriting revenues decreased 14% to $1,454 million, primarily due to lower market volume. Fixed income underwriting revenues increased 8% to $1,371 million, primarily due to increased high-yield issuance volumes and higher loan syndication fees. Advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,470 million, a decrease of 1% from 2009.  

Sales and Trading Revenues. Total sales and trading revenues increased 18% in 2010 from 2009, reflecting higher equity and fixed income sales and trading revenues, partially offset by losses in other sales and trading.  

Equity. Equity sales and trading revenues increased 31% to $4,840 million in 2010 from $3,690 million in 2009. Equity sales and trading revenues reflected negative revenues of approximately $121 million in 2010 due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value compared with negative revenues of approximately $1,738 million in 2009. Despite solid customer flows, a challenging trading environment resulted in lower revenues in the cash and derivatives businesses in 2010. Results in 2010 reflected higher revenues in prime brokerage due to higher client balances compared with 2009.  

In 2010, equity sales and trading revenues also reflected unrealized gains of approximately $20 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ credit default swap spreads compared with unrealized gains of approximately $198 million in 2009. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of $31 million in 2010 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads compared with unrealized losses of approximately $154 million in 2009 from the tightening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads. The unrealized gains and losses on credit default swap spreads and other credit factors do not reflect any gains or losses on related hedging instruments.  

Fixed Income and Commodities. Fixed income sales and trading revenues increased 21% to $5,900 million in 2010 from $4,872 million in 2009. Results in 2010 included negative revenues of approximately $703 million due to the impact of the tightening of the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on Borrowings that were accounted for at fair value compared with negative revenues of approximately $3,321 million in 2009. Fixed income product revenues decreased 38% in 2010, reflecting lower trading results across most businesses. Results for 2010 primarily reflected solid customer flows in interest rate, credit and currency products, which were partly offset by a challenging trading environment. Fixed income product net revenues in 2010 were also negatively impacted by losses of $865 million from Monolines compared with losses of $232 million in 2009. Results in interest rate, credit and currency products also included a gain of approximately $123 million related to a change in the fair value measurement methodology to use the OIS curve as an input to value substantially all collateralized interest rate derivative contracts (see “Executive Summary —Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” herein and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Commodity net revenues decreased  

64  

Table of Contents 

 27% in 2010, primarily due to low levels of client activity and market volatility. Results in 2009 included a gain of approximately $319 million related to the sale of undivided participating interests in a portion of the Company’s claims against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy protection (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements).  

In 2010, fixed income sales and trading revenues reflected net unrealized gains of $603 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ credit default swap spreads compared with unrealized gains of approximately $3,462 million in 2009. The Company also recorded unrealized gains of $287 million in 2010 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads compared with unrealized losses of approximately $1,938 million in 2009 from the tightening of the Company’s credit default swap spreads. The unrealized gains and losses on credit default swap spreads and other credit factors do not reflect any gains or losses on related hedging instruments.  

Other. In 2010, other sales and trading net revenues reflected a net loss of $441 million compared with net gains of $174 million in 2009. Results in 2010 primarily included net losses of approximately $342 million (mark-to-market valuations and realized gains of approximately $327 million offset by losses on related hedges of approximately $669 million) associated with loans and lending commitments and the costs related to negative carry. Results in 2009 included net gains of approximately $804 million (mark-to-market valuations and realized gains of approximately $4,042 million, partially offset by losses on related hedges of approximately $3,238 million) associated with loans and lending commitments. Results in 2009 also included losses of $362 million, reflecting the improvement in the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads on certain debt related to China Investment Corporation, Ltd.’s (“CIC”) investment in the Company. Results in 2010 also included a gain of approximately $53 million related to the OIS curve fair value methodology referred to above (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Principal Transactions—Investments. Principal transaction net investment gains of $809 million were recognized in 2010 compared with net investment losses of $864 million in 2009. The results for 2010 reflected a gain of $313 million on a principal investment held by a consolidated investment partnership, which was sold in 2010. The results in 2010 also reflected gains on principal investments in real estate funds and investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans compared with losses on such investments in 2009.  

Other. Other revenues increased 85% in 2010, primarily reflecting a pre-tax gain of $668 million from the sale of the Company’s investment in CICC, partially offset by pre-tax losses of approximately $62 million arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS. Results in 2009 included gains of approximately $465 million from the Company’s repurchase of its debt in the open market.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 3% in 2010, primarily due to higher non-compensation expenses, partially offset by lower compensation expense. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 2% in 2010, primarily due to lower net revenues, excluding the impact of negative revenues related to the Company’s Debt-Related Credit Spreads. Compensation and benefits expenses in 2010 included a non-recurring charge of approximately $269 million related to the U.K. government’s payroll tax on discretionary above-base compensation. Non-compensation expenses increased 10% in 2010. Brokerage and clearing expense increased 18% in 2010, primarily due to higher levels of business activity. Information processing and communications expense increased 11% in 2010, primarily due to ongoing investments in technology. Marketing and business development expense increased 33% in 2010, primarily due to higher levels of business activity. Other expenses increased 17% in 2010, primarily related to higher provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings, including $102.7 million related to the Assurance of Discontinuance between the Company and the Massachusetts OAG, partially offset by insurance recoveries reflected in 2010.  

65  

Table of Contents 

GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT GROUP  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Revenues. Global Wealth Management Group’s net revenues are composed of Transactional, Asset management, Net interest and Other revenues. Transactional revenues include Investment banking, Principal transactions—Trading, and Commissions and fees. Asset management revenues include Asset management, distribution and administration fees and fees related to the bank deposit program. Net interest revenues include net interest revenues related to the bank deposit program, interest on securities available for sale and all other net interest revenues. Other revenues include revenues from available for sale securities, customer account services fees, other miscellaneous revenues and revenues from Principal transactions—Investments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

MSSB. On May 31, 2009, MSSB was formed (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company owns 51% of MSSB, which is consolidated. As a result, the operating results for MSSB are included in  

66  

Table of Contents 

 the Global Wealth Management Group business segment since May 31, 2009. Net income applicable to noncontrolling interests of $146 million, $301 million and $98 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily represents Citi’s interest in MSSB since May 31, 2009.  

2011 Compared with 2010.  

Transactional.  

Investment Banking. Global Wealth Management Group investment banking includes revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and unit trusts. Investment banking revenues decreased 9% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to lower equity and fixed income underwriting activities.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. Principal transactions—Trading includes revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company’s inventory positions which are held primarily to facilitate customer transactions and gains and losses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Principal transactions—Trading revenues decreased 14% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans, lower revenues from corporate equity and fixed income securities, government securities and structured notes, partially offset by higher revenues from municipal securities, derivatives and unit trusts.  

Commissions and Fees. Commissions and fees revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commissions and fees revenues increased 4% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher client activity.  

Asset Management.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for information on what is included within Asset management, distribution and administration fees.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 8% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, partially offset by lower revenues as a result of the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program. From June 2009 until April 1, 2010, revenues in the bank deposit program were primarily included in Asset management, distribution and administration fees. Beginning on April 1, 2010, revenues in the bank deposit program held at the Company’s U.S. depository institutions were recorded as Interest income due to renegotiations of the revenue sharing agreement as part of the Global Wealth Management Group business segment’s retail banking strategy. The Global Wealth Management Group business segment continues to earn referral fees for deposits placed with Citi affiliated depository institutions, and these fees continue to be recorded in Asset management, distribution and administration fees until the legacy Smith Barney deposits are migrated to the Company’s U.S. depository institutions. The referral fees for deposits were $255 million and $382 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Balances in the bank deposit program decreased to $110.6 billion at December 31, 2011 from $113.3 billion at December 31, 2010.  

Client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $496 billion and represented 30% of total client assets at December 31, 2011, compared with $470 billion and 28% at December 31, 2010, respectively. Total client asset balances decreased to $1,649 billion at December 31, 2011 from $1,669 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to the impact of weakened market conditions, partially offset by an increase in net new assets. Net new assets for 2011 were an inflow of $35.8 billion, compared with an inflow of $22.9 billion in 2010. Client asset balances in households with assets greater than $1 million decreased to $1,219 billion at December 31, 2011 from $1,229 billion at December 31, 2010. Global fee-based asset net inflows increased to $42.5 billion at December 31, 2011 from $32.7 billion at December 31, 2010.  

67  

Table of Contents 

Net Interest.  

Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including customer bank deposits and margin loans and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions.  

Net interest increased 32% in 2011 from 2010, primarily resulting from an increase in Interest income due to interest on the securities available for sale portfolio and mortgages and the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program noted above.  

Other.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. Principal transaction net investment gains were $4 million in 2011 compared with net investment gains of $19 million in 2010. The decrease in 2011 primarily reflected losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans compared with such investments in the prior year.  

Other. Other revenues were $410 million in 2011, an increase of 22% from 2010, primarily due to gains on sales of securities available for sale.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 6% in 2011 from 2010. Compensation and benefits expense increased 6% in 2011 from 2010, primarily reflecting higher net revenues and support services related compensation, partially offset by lower expenses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Non-compensation expenses increased 4% in 2011 from 2010. In 2011, marketing and business development expense increased 15% from 2010, primarily due to higher costs associated with conferences and seminars. Professional services expense increased 14% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to increased technology consulting costs and legal fees. Information processing and communications expense increased 10% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher telecommunications and data storage costs. Occupancy and equipment expense decreased 4% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to lower infrastructure costs and continued branch consolidation.  

2010 Compared with 2009.  

Transactional.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues increased 39% in 2010, primarily benefiting from a full year of MSSB revenues and higher closed-end fund activity.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. Principal transactions—Trading revenues increased 8% in 2010, primarily benefiting from a full year of MSSB revenues, net gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and gains on certain investments.  

Commissions and fees. Commissions and fees revenues increased 28% in 2010, primarily benefiting from a full year of MSSB revenues and higher client activity.  

Asset Management.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 39% in 2010, primarily benefiting from a full year of MSSB revenues and improved market conditions. The referral fees for deposits placed with Citi depository institutions were $382 million in 2010 and $660 million in 2009.  

Balances in the bank deposit program increased to $113.3 billion at December 31, 2010 from $112.5 billion at December 31, 2009.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $470 billion and represented 28% of total client assets at December 31, 2010 compared with $379 billion and 24% at December 31, 2009, respectively. Total client asset balances increased to $1,669 billion at December 31, 2010 from $1,560 billion at December 31, 2009, primarily due to improved market conditions and an increase in net new assets. Net new assets for 2010 were $22.9 billion. Client asset balances in households with assets greater than $1 million increased to $1,229 billion at December 31, 2010 from $1,090 billion at December 31, 2009. Global fee-based asset flows increased to $32.7 billion at December 31, 2010 from $13.4 billion at December 31, 2009.  

Net Interest.  

Net interest increased 70% in 2010, primarily resulting from an increase in Interest income due to a full year of MSSB net interest, the securities available for sale portfolio (see “Other Matters—Securities Available for Sale” herein) and the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program noted above, partially offset by increased funding costs.  

Other.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. Principal transaction net investment gains were $19 million in 2010 compared with $3 million in 2009. The increase primarily reflected gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans compared with such investments in the prior-year period.  

Other. Other revenues were $337 million in 2010, an increase of 35% from $249 million in 2009. Other revenues in 2010 primarily benefited from a full year of MSSB revenues and increases in proxy and other fee services.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 30% in 2010, primarily due to higher costs related to a full year of MSSB operating expenses and the amortization of MSSB’s intangible assets. Compensation and benefits expense increased 28% in 2010, primarily due to a full year of MSSB operating expenses. Non-compensation expenses increased 34% in 2010. In 2010, brokerage, clearing and exchange fees expense increased 38%, information processing and communications expense increased 41%, and other expenses increased 51%, primarily due to a full year of MSSB operating expenses. In 2010, professional services expense increased 43%, primarily due to a full year of MSSB operating expenses and increased technology consulting costs related to the MSSB integration.  

69  

Table of Contents 

ASSET MANAGEMENT  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

FrontPoint. On March 1, 2011, the Company and the principals of FrontPoint completed a transaction whereby FrontPoint senior management and portfolio managers own a majority equity stake in FrontPoint and the Company retained a minority stake. FrontPoint has replaced the Company’s affiliates as the investment advisor and general partner of the FrontPoint funds. The investment in FrontPoint is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Prior to March 1, 2011, the Company consolidated FrontPoint. The Company recorded losses of approximately $27 million related to the writedown of the minority stake investment in FrontPoint in 2011. The losses were included in Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income.  

Noncontrolling Interests. Noncontrolling interests are primarily related to the consolidation of certain real estate funds sponsored by the Company. The decrease in noncontrolling interests in 2011 is related to lower principal investment gains associated with these consolidated funds. The increase in noncontrolling interests in 2010 is related to principal investment gains of $444 million associated with these consolidated funds.  

70  

Table of Contents 

Discontinued Operations. On June 1, 2010, the Company completed the sale of Retail Asset Management, including Van Kampen, to Invesco. The Company recorded a cumulative after-tax gain of $710 million, of which $28 million and $570 million were recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The remaining gain, representing tax basis benefits, was recorded in the quarter ended December 31, 2009. The results of Retail Asset Management are reported as discontinued operations within the Asset Management business segment for all periods presented. See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Gain on Sale of Retail Asset Management” for further information.  

In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company classified a real estate property management company as held for sale within the Asset Management business segment. The transaction closed during the first quarter of 2012. The results of operations are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.  

In the third quarter of 2010, the Company completed a disposal of a real estate property within the Asset Management business segment. The results of operations are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.  

Segment Reorganization. Beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2011, the Asset Management business segment was reorganized into three businesses: Traditional Asset Management, Real Estate Investing and Merchant Banking. Traditional Asset Management includes Long-only, which is comprised of Equity and Fixed Income, Liquidity and the Alternative Investment Products businesses, which include a range of alternative investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds, and funds of real estate funds. Real Estate Investing was previously reported as part of Merchant Banking. Merchant Banking includes the Private Equity and Infrastructure business and hedge fund stake investments. The Company’s equity investment in FrontPoint, subsequent to the restructuring of that business, is included in Merchant Banking. The results of the FrontPoint business for all periods prior to the restructuring are also included in Merchant Banking.  

Statistical Data.  

The Asset Management business segment’s period-end and average assets under management or supervision were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

71  

Table of Contents 

 (2) On March 1, 2011, the Company and the principals of FrontPoint completed a transaction whereby FrontPoint senior management and portfolio managers own a majority equity stake in FrontPoint and the Company retains a minority stake. At December 31, 2011, the assets under management attributed to FrontPoint are represented within the share of minority stake assets.  

 (3) Amounts represent the Asset Management business segment’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.  

Activity in the Asset Management business segment’s assets under management or supervision during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.  

 (2) Fixed income outflows in 2011 includes $1.3 billion due to the revised treatment of assets under management previously reported as a net flow.  

 (3) The amount in 2011 includes two months of net flows related to FrontPoint, whereas 2010 and 2009 includes twelve months of net flows related to FrontPoint.  

2011 Compared with 2010.  

Investment Banking. Asset Management generates investment banking revenues primarily from the placement of investments in real estate and merchant banking fund. Investment banking revenues decreased in 2011 from 2010, primarily reflecting lower revenues from infrastructure products.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. In 2011, the Company recognized losses of $22 million compared with losses of $49 million in 2010. Trading results in 2011 primarily reflected losses related to certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans and certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Trading results in 2010 primarily included losses from hedges on certain investments and long-term debt. Trading results in 2010 also included $25 million related to contributions to money market funds.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. Real estate and private equity investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.  

72  

Table of Contents 

The Company recorded principal transactions net investment gains of $330 million in 2011 compared with gains of $996 million in 2010. The decrease in 2011 was primarily related to lower net gains in the Company’s Merchant Banking and Traditional Asset Management businesses, including certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans, as well as lower net investment gains associated with certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company. 

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues generated from the management and supervision of assets, performance-based fees relating to certain funds, and separately managed accounts and fees relating to the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds. Asset management fees arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 3% in 2011. The decrease in 2011 primarily reflected lower performance fees and lower fund management and administration fees, primarily due to the absence of FrontPoint for ten months of the current year, partially offset by an increase in revenue associated with higher average assets under management.  

The Company’s assets under management increased $15 billion from $272 billion at December 31, 2010 to $287 billion at December 31, 2011 reflecting net customer inflows. The Company recorded net customer inflows of $25.8 billion in 2011 compared with net outflows of $5.7 billion in 2010. The increase in flows for 2011 primarily reflected the sweep of MSSB client cash balances of approximately $18.5 billion into Morgan Stanley managed liquidity funds and inflows of $7.9 billion into alternatives funds, partially offset by outflows of $5.5 billion in fixed income products.  

Other. Other revenues were $25 million in 2011 as compared with $164 million in 2010. The results in 2011 included revenues associated with the Company’s minority stake investments in Lansdowne Partners (“Lansdowne”), a London-based investment manager, and Avenue Capital Group (“Avenue”), a New York-based investment manager, partially offset by a $27 million writedown in the Company’s minority stake investment in FrontPoint as noted above. The results in 2010 primarily reflected revenues associated with these minority stakes and a pre-tax gain of approximately $96 million from the sale of the Company’s investment in Invesco (see Notes 5 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements). The results in 2010 also reflected gains associated with the reduction of a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company and impairment charges of $126 million related to FrontPoint.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses decreased 17% in 2011 from 2010, primarily reflecting a decrease in compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 23% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to the absence of FrontPoint for ten months of the current year and decreases associated with lower net revenues. Non-compensation expenses decreased 8% in 2011 compared with the prior year, as the prior year included intangible asset impairment charges of $67 million related to certain FrontPoint management contracts.  

2010 Compared with 2009.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues doubled in 2010 from 2009, primarily reflecting higher revenues from real estate and infrastructure products.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. In 2010, the Company recognized Principal transactions trading losses of $49 million compared with losses of $68 million in 2009. Trading results in 2010 and 2009 included losses from hedges on certain investments and long-term debt. Trading results in 2010 also included $25 million related  

73  

Table of Contents 

 to contributions to money market funds. Trading results in 2009 also included mark-to-market losses related to a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company, partially offset by gains of $164 million related to structured investment vehicle positions that were previously held on the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. The Company recorded principal transactions net investment gains of $996 million in 2010 compared with losses of $173 million in 2009. The results in 2010 included a gain of $444 million associated with certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company and net investment gains in the Merchant Banking and Traditional Asset Management businesses, including certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The results in 2009 primarily related to net investment losses associated with the Company’s real estate investments and losses related to certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans, partially offset by net investment gains associated with the Company’s Merchant Banking business.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 4% in 2010 compared with 2009, primarily reflecting higher fund management and administration fees, partially offset by lower performance fees. The higher fund management and administration fees reflected an increase in average assets under management. The Company’s assets under management increased $13 billion from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, reflecting market appreciation, partially offset by net customer outflows, primarily in the Company’s money market funds. The Company recorded net customer outflows of $5.7 billion in 2010 compared with net outflows of $41.1 billion in 2009.  

Other. Other revenues increased $118 million in 2010 compared with 2009. The results in 2010 included a pre-tax gain of approximately $96 million from the sale of the Company’s investment in Invesco, as mentioned above. The increase in 2010 also reflected gains associated with the reduction of a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company and higher revenues associated with the Company’s minority stake investments in Avenue and Lansdowne. These increases were partially offset by impairment charges of $126 million related to FrontPoint.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 1% in 2010 compared with 2009. The results in 2010 primarily reflected an increase in Compensation and benefits expense, partially offset by a decrease in Non-compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 2% in 2010 due to certain international tax equalization payments and principal investment gains in the current year related to employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Non-compensation expenses for 2010 included intangible asset impairment charges of $67 million related to FrontPoint investment management contracts.  

74  

Table of Contents 

Accounting Developments.  

Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements.  

In April 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued accounting guidance that removes the requirement to consider whether sufficient collateral is held when determining whether to account for repurchase agreements and other agreements that both entitle and obligate the transferor to repurchase or redeem financial assets before their maturity as sales or as secured financings. The guidance is effective for the Company prospectively for transactions beginning on January 1, 2012. The Company does not believe the adoption of this accounting guidance will have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS.  

In May 2011, the FASB issued an accounting update that clarifies existing fair value measurement guidance and changes certain principles or requirements for measuring fair value or disclosing information about fair value measurements. This update results in common principles and requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurement in accordance with U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). The guidance is effective for the Company prospectively beginning on January 1, 2012. The Company does not believe the adoption of this accounting guidance will have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Goodwill Impairment Test.  

In September 2011, the FASB issued accounting guidance that simplifies how entities test goodwill for impairment. This guidance allows entities an option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. Under that option, an entity no longer would be required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines, based on that qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. This guidance is effective for the Company prospectively beginning on January 1, 2012. The Company does not believe the adoption of this accounting guidance will have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

75  

Table of Contents 

Other Matters.  

Real Estate.  

The Company acts as the general partner for various real estate funds and also invests in certain of these funds as a limited partner. The Company’s real estate investments at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 are described below. Such amounts exclude investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans.  

At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the consolidated statements of financial condition included amounts representing real estate investment assets of consolidated subsidiaries of approximately $2.0 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, including noncontrolling interests of approximately $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, for a net amount of $0.4 billion in both periods. This net presentation is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be the most useful measure for the Company and investors to use in assessing the Company’s net exposure. In addition, the Company has contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty arrangements with respect to real estate investments of $0.8 billion at December 31, 2011.  

In addition to the Company’s real estate investments, the Company engages in various real estate-related activities, including origination of loans secured by commercial and residential properties. The Company also securitizes and trades in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate. In connection with these activities, the Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. The Company continues to monitor its real estate-related activities in order to manage its exposures and potential liability from these markets and businesses. See “Legal Proceedings—Residential Mortgage and Credit Crisis Related Matters” in Part I, Item 3.  

See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Real Estate Investments” herein and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Securities Available for Sale.  

During 2010, the Company established a portfolio of debt securities in order to manage interest rate risk. The securities have been classified as securities available for sale in accordance with accounting guidance for investments in debt and equity securities.  

See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on securities available for sale.  

Japanese Securities Joint Venture.  

On May 1, 2010, the Company and MUFG formed a joint venture in Japan of their respective investment banking and securities businesses. MUFG and the Company have integrated their respective Japanese securities companies by forming two joint venture companies. MUFG contributed the investment banking, wholesale and retail securities businesses conducted in Japan by Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co., Ltd. into MUMSS. The Company contributed the investment banking operations conducted in Japan by its subsidiary, Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities, Co., Ltd. (“MSMS”), formerly known as Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd., into MUMSS (MSMS, together with MUMSS, the “Joint Venture”). MSMS will continue its sales and trading and capital markets business conducted in Japan. Following the respective contributions to the Joint Venture and a cash payment of 23 billion yen ($247 million) from MUFG to the Company, the Company owns a 40% economic interest in the Joint Venture, and MUFG owns a 60% economic interest in the Joint Venture. The Company holds a 40% voting interest and MUFG holds a 60% voting interest in MUMSS, while the Company holds a 51% voting interest and MUFG holds a 49% voting interest in MSMS. The Company continues to consolidate MSMS in its consolidated financial statements and, commencing on May 1, 2010, accounted for its interest in MUMSS  

76  

Table of Contents 

 as an equity method investment within the Institutional Securities business segment. During 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded losses of $783 million and $62 million, respectively, within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS.  

In order to enhance the risk management at MUMSS, during 2011, the Company entered into a transaction with MUMSS whereby the risk associated with the fixed income trading positions that previously caused the majority of the aforementioned MUMSS losses in 2011 was transferred to MSMS (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for more information). In return for entering into the transaction, the Company received total consideration of $659 million, which represented the estimated fair value of the fixed income trading positions transferred.  

To the extent that losses incurred by MUMSS result in a requirement to restore its capital, MUFG is solely responsible for providing this additional capital to a minimum level and the Company is not obligated to contribute additional capital to MUMSS. Because of the losses incurred by MUMSS, MUFG contributed approximately $370 million and $259 million of capital to MUMSS on April 22, 2011 and November 24, 2011, respectively. The MUFG capital injection improved the capital base and restored the capital adequacy ratio of MUMSS in each case. As a result of the capital injections, during 2011, the Company recorded increases of approximately $251 million in the carrying amount of the equity method investment in MUMSS, reflecting the Company’s 40% share of the increases in the net asset value of MUMSS, and increases in the Company’s Paid-in capital of approximately $146 million (after-tax).  

To the extent that MUMSS is required to increase its capital level due to factors other than losses, such as changes in regulatory requirements, both MUFG and the Company are required to contribute the necessary capital based upon their economic interest as set forth above. In this context, the Company contributed $129 million and MUFG contributed $195 million of additional proportionate capital investments on November 24, 2011 to meet an anticipated change in regulatory capital requirements of MUMSS.  

At December 31, 2011, the Company performed an impairment review of its equity method investment in MUMSS in view of the deterioration in the financial performance of MUMSS and the aftermath of the earthquake in Japan on March 11, 2011. The Company recorded no other-than-temporary impairment loss in 2011. Adverse market or economic events, as well as further deterioration of economic performance, could result in impairment charges of this investment in future periods.  

See Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements and “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information.  

Redemption of CIC Equity Units and Issuance of Common Stock.  

In December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units that included contracts to purchase Company common stock to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC. The Company redeemed the junior subordinated debentures underlying the Equity Units in August 2010, and the redemption proceeds were subsequently used by the CIC subsidiary to settle its obligation under the purchase contracts.  

Dividend Income.  

Effective January 1, 2010, the Company reclassified dividend income associated with trading and investing activities to Principal transactions—Trading or Principal transactions—Investments depending upon the business activity. Previously, these amounts were included in Interest and dividends on the consolidated statements of income. These reclassifications were made in connection with the Company’s conversion to a financial holding company. Prior periods have been adjusted to conform to the current presentation.  

77  

Table of Contents 

Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.  

Expense. The Company recognizes the compensation cost of an employee’s pension benefits (including prior-service cost) over the employee’s estimated service period. This process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.  

On June 1, 2010, the defined benefit pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “U.S. Qualified Plan”) was amended to cease future benefit accruals after December 31, 2010. Any benefits earned by participants under the U.S. Qualified Plan at December 31, 2010 were preserved and will be payable based on the U.S. Qualified Plan’s provisions. Net periodic pension expense for U.S. and non-U.S. plans was $72 million, $96 million and $175 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

On October 29, 2010, the Morgan Stanley Medical Plan was amended to change eligibility requirements for a firm-provided subsidy toward the cost of retiree medical coverage after December 31, 2010. Net periodic postretirement expense for the Morgan Stanley Medical Plan was $12 million and $26 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Contributions. The Company made contributions of $57 million, $72 million and $321 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from operations.  

The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded plans by considering several factors, including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, the types of assets in which the plans are invested, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The Company’s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax laws (for example, in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or “ERISA”). At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, there were no minimum required ERISA contributions for the U.S. Qualified Plan. No contributions were made to the U.S. Qualified Plan for 2011 and 2010. A $278 million contribution was funded to the U.S. Qualified Plan for 2009 based on the service cost earned by the eligible employees plus a portion of the unfunded accumulated benefit obligation on a funding basis. Liabilities for benefits payable under certain postretirement and unfunded supplementary plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries.  

See Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the Company’s defined benefit pension and postretirement plans.  

Regulatory Outlook.  

On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. While certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, other portions will be effective only following extended transition periods. Moreover, implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will be accomplished through numerous rulemakings by multiple governmental agencies, only a portion of which has been completed. It remains difficult to assess fully the impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on the Company and on the financial services industry generally. In addition, various international developments, such as the adoption of risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards by the Basel Committee, known as “Basel III,” will impact the Company in the coming years.  

It is likely that 2012 and subsequent years will see further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which the Company operates, although it remains difficult to predict which further reform initiatives will become law, how such reforms will be implemented or the exact impact they will have on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. See also “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1.  

78  

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies.  

The Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.  

Fair Value.  

Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value. A significant number of the Company’s financial instruments are carried at fair value. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include but are not limited to:  

   •    Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased;  

   •    Securities available for sale;  

   •    Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral;  

   •    Certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;  

   •    Certain Deposits;  

   •    Certain Securities sold under agreements to repurchase;  

   •    Certain Other secured financings; and  

   •    Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes.  

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  

In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches. A hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the relevant observable inputs be used when available. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein Level 1 uses observable prices in active markets, and Level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, require the greatest use of judgment. In periods of market disruption, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. In addition, a downturn in market conditions could lead to declines in the valuation of many instruments. For further information on the fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and related valuation techniques, see Notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Level 3 Assets and Liabilities. The Company’s Level 3 assets before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy were $32.5 billion and $34.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and represented approximately 10% at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, of the assets measured at fair value (4% of total assets at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010). Level 3 liabilities before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy were $11.2 billion and $8.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and represented approximately 6% and 4%, respectively, of the Company’s liabilities measured at fair value.  

Transfers In/Out of Level 3 During 2011. During 2011, the Company reclassified approximately $1.8 billion of certain Corporate and other debt, primarily corporate loans, from Level 3 to Level 2. The Company reclassified the corporate loans as external prices and/or spread inputs for these instruments became observable.  

79  

Table of Contents 

The Company also reclassified approximately $0.8 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to corporate loans and were generally due to a reduction in market price quotations for these or comparable instruments, or a lack of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the fair value measurement of these instruments.  

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis. At December 31, 2011, certain of the Company’s assets were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, primarily relating to loans, other investments, premises, equipment and software costs, and intangible assets. The Company incurs losses or gains for any adjustments of these assets to fair value. A downturn in market conditions could result in impairment charges in future periods.  

For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.  

For further information on assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Fair Value Control Processes. The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to ensure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable. These control processes include reviews of the pricing model’s theoretical soundness and appropriateness by Company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks, which include Finance, Market Risk Department and Credit Risk Management Department. These groups participate in the review and validation of the fair values generated from pricing models, as appropriate. Where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the model.  

Consistent with market practice, the Company has individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral (“margining”) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. Through this margining process, one party or each party to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. This sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the Company’s recorded fair value for the relevant OTC derivative products. For certain OTC derivative products, the Company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation services that synthesize the information and make it accessible to subscribers. This information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these OTC derivative products. For more information regarding the Company’s risk management practices, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

Goodwill and Intangible Assets.  

Goodwill. The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis on July 1 and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. The Company tests for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is generally at the level of or one level below its business segments. Goodwill no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition once it has been assigned to a reporting unit. As such, all of the activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically developed, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its respective carrying value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required  

80  

Table of Contents 

 to determine the amount of the impairment. Additionally, if the carrying value of a reporting unit is zero or a negative value and it is determined that it is more likely than not the goodwill is impaired, further analysis is required. The estimated fair values of the reporting units are derived based on valuation techniques the Company believes market participants would use for each of the reporting units. The estimated fair values are generally determined utilizing methodologies that incorporate price-to-book, price-to-earnings and assets under management multiples of certain comparable companies. The Company also utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology for certain reporting units.  

Intangible Assets. Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. For amortizable intangible assets, an impairment exists when the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. An impairment loss will be recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows.  

Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed annually (or more frequently when certain events or circumstances exist) for impairment. For indefinite-lived intangible assets, an impairment exists when the carrying amount exceeds its fair value.  

For both goodwill and intangible assets, to the extent an impairment loss is recognized, the loss establishes the new cost basis of the asset. Subsequent reversal of impairment losses is not permitted. For amortizable intangible assets, the new cost basis is amortized over the remaining useful life of that asset. Adverse market or economic events could result in impairment charges in future periods.  

See Notes 4 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about goodwill and intangible assets.  

Legal, Regulatory and Tax Contingencies.  

In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution.  

Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.  

The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company’s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  

Accruals for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis. Where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the Company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. In many proceedings, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. For certain legal proceedings, the Company can estimate possible losses, additional losses, ranges of loss or ranges of additional loss in excess of amounts accrued. For certain other legal proceedings, the Company cannot reasonably estimate such losses, particularly for proceedings that are in their early stages of development or where plaintiffs seek substantial or indeterminate damages. Numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially  

81  

Table of Contents 

 lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for any proceeding.  

The Company is subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company periodically evaluates the likelihood of assessments in each taxing jurisdiction resulting from current and subsequent years’ examinations, and unrecognized tax benefits related to potential losses that may arise from tax audits are established in accordance with the guidance on accounting for unrecognized tax benefits. Once established, unrecognized tax benefits are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change.  

The income of certain foreign subsidiaries earned outside of the United States has been excluded from taxation in the U.S. as a result of a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of tax on certain active financial services income until such income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. This provision, which expired for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2012, had previously been extended by Congress on several occasions, including the most recent extension which occurred during 2010. If this provision is not extended, the overall financial impact to the Company would depend upon the level, composition and geographic mix of future earnings but could increase the Company’s 2012 annual effective tax rate and have an adverse impact on the Company’s net income, but not its cash flows due to utilization of tax attributes carryforwards.  

Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, if any. See Notes 13 and 22 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on legal proceedings and tax examinations.  

Special Purpose Entities and Variable Interest Entities.  

The Company’s involvement with special purpose entities (“SPE”) consists primarily of the following:  

   •    Transferring financial assets into SPEs;  

   •    Acting as an underwriter of beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles;  

   •    Holding one or more classes of securities issued by, or making loans to or investments in, SPEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets;  

   •    Purchasing and selling (in both a market-making and a proprietary-trading capacity) securities issued by SPEs/variable interest entities (“VIE”), whether such vehicles are sponsored by the Company or not;  

   •    Entering into derivative transactions with SPEs (whether or not sponsored by the Company);  

   •    Providing warehouse financing to collateralized debt obligations and collateralized loan obligations;  

   •    Entering into derivative agreements with non-SPEs whose value is derived from securities issued by SPEs;  

   •    Servicing assets held by SPEs or holding servicing rights related to assets held by SPEs that are serviced by others under subservicing arrangements;  

   •    Serving as an asset manager to various investment funds that may invest in securities that are backed, in whole or in part, by SPEs; and  

82  

Table of Contents 

   •    Structuring and/or investing in other structured transactions designed to provide enhanced, tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.  

The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial instruments. The Company’s involvement with SPEs is discussed further in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.  

In most cases, these SPEs are deemed for accounting purposes to be VIEs. The Company applies accounting guidance for consolidation of VIEs to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. Entities that previously met the criteria as qualifying SPEs that were not subject to consolidation prior to January 1, 2010 became subject to the consolidation requirements for VIEs on that date. Excluding entities subject to the Deferral (as defined in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), effective January 1, 2010, the primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that both (1) has the power to direct the activities of a VIE that most significantly affect the VIE’s economic performance and (2) has an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE. The Company consolidates entities of which it is the primary beneficiary.  

The Company determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon its initial involvement with the VIE and reassesses whether it is the primary beneficiary on an ongoing basis as long as it has any continuing involvement with the VIE. This determination is based upon an analysis of the design of the VIE, including the VIE’s structure and activities, the power to make significant economic decisions held by the Company and by other parties and the variable interests owned by the Company and other parties.  

See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information on accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2010 for transfers of financial assets.  

83  

Table of Contents 

Liquidity and Capital Resources.  

The Company’s senior management establishes the liquidity and capital policies of the Company. Through various risk and control committees, the Company’s senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company’s asset and liability position. The Company’s Treasury Department, Firm Risk Committee, Asset and Liability Management Committee and other control groups assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company’s business activities have on its consolidated statements of financial condition, liquidity and capital structure. Liquidity and capital matters are reported regularly to the Board’s Risk Committee.  

The Balance Sheet.  

The Company actively monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet. A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from sales and trading activities in the Institutional Securities business segment. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in managing the size of its balance sheet. The Company’s total assets decreased to $749,898 million at December 31, 2011 from $807,698 million at December 31, 2010. The decrease in total assets was primarily due to a decrease in Financial instruments owned—Corporate equities and Corporate and other debt and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to sell and Securities borrowed.  

The Company’s assets and liabilities are primarily related to transactions attributable to sales and trading and securities financing activities. At December 31, 2011, securities financing assets and liabilities were $332 billion and $268 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2010, securities financing assets and liabilities were $358 billion and $321 billion, respectively. Securities financing transactions include repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, securities received as collateral and obligation to return securities received. Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are treated as collateralized financings (see Notes 2 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements). Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned were $135 billion at December 31, 2011 and averaged $180 billion during 2011. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed were $257 billion at December 31, 2011 and averaged $303 billion during 2011. In both cases, the period end balance was lower than the average balances for 2011 primarily, due to a decrease in the overall balance sheet during the year.  

Securities financing assets and liabilities also include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. Matched book transactions accommodate customers, as well as obtain securities for the settlement and financing of inventory positions. The customer receivable portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated according to regulatory requirements. The customer payable portion of the securities financing transactions primarily includes customer payables to the Company’s prime brokerage clients. The Company’s risk exposure on these transactions is mitigated by collateral maintenance policies that limit the Company’s credit exposure to customers. Included within securities financing assets were $12 billion and $17 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, recorded in accordance with accounting guidance for the transfer of financial assets that represented offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions.  

84  

Table of Contents 

The following table sets forth the Company’s tangible common equity at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 and average balances during 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company calculates its average balances based upon month-end balances.  

 (2) The goodwill and net intangible assets deduction exclude mortgage servicing rights (net of disallowable mortgage servicing rights) of $120 million and $141 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and include only the Company’s share of MSSB’s goodwill and intangible assets.  

 (3) Tangible common equity, a non-GAAP financial measure, equals common equity less goodwill and net intangible assets as defined above. The Company views tangible common equity as a useful measure to investors because it is a commonly utilized metric and reflects the common equity deployed in the Company’s businesses.  

Balance Sheet and Funding Activity in 2011.  

During 2011, the Company issued notes with a principal amount of approximately $33 billion. In connection with the note issuances, the Company generally enters into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term LIBOR trading levels. The weighted average maturity of the Company’s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5 years at December 31, 2011. During 2011, approximately $39 billion in aggregate long-term borrowings were matured or retired. Subsequent to December 31, 2011 and through February 10, 2012, the Company’s long-term borrowings (net of issuances) decreased by approximately $6.8 billion.  

At December 31, 2011, the aggregate outstanding carrying amount of the Company’s senior indebtedness was approximately $176 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries) compared with $183 billion at December 31, 2010. The decrease in the amount of senior indebtedness was primarily due to repayments of notes, net of new issuances in long-term and short-term borrowings.  

MUFG Stock Conversion.  

On June 30, 2011, MUFG’s outstanding Series B Preferred Stock was converted into the Company’s common stock (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein).  

Capital Management.  

The Company’s senior management views capital as an important source of financial strength. The Company actively manages its consolidated capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, risks, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total capital, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries’ equity.  

85  

Table of Contents 

At December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion remaining under its current share repurchase program out of the $6 billion authorized by the Board of Directors in December 2006. The share repurchase program is for capital management purposes and considers, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval. During 2011, the Company did not repurchase common stock as part of its capital management share repurchase program (see also “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Part II, Item 5).  

The Board of Directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. In January 2012, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.05. In December 2011, the Company also announced that the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $255.56 per share of Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.25556) and a quarterly dividend of $25.00 per share of Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock.  

Required Capital.  

Beginning with the quarter ended June 30, 2010, the Company’s capital estimation is based on the Required Capital Framework, an internal capital adequacy measure. This framework is a risk-based internal use of capital measure, which is compared with the Company’s regulatory capital to help ensure the Company maintains an amount of risk-based going concern capital after absorbing potential losses from extreme stress events at a point in time. The difference between the Company’s regulatory capital and aggregate Required Capital is the Company’s Parent capital. Average Tier 1 capital, aggregate Required capital and Parent capital for 2011 were approximately $51.2 billion, $30.9 billion and $20.3 billion, respectively. The Company generally holds Parent capital for prospective regulatory requirements, including Basel III, organic growth, acquisitions and other capital needs.  

Tier 1 capital and common equity attribution to the business segments is based on capital usage calculated by Required Capital. In principle, each business segment is capitalized as if it were an independent operating entity with limited diversification benefit between the business segments. Required Capital is assessed at each business segment and further attributed to product lines. This process is intended to align capital with the risks in each business segment in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis. The Required Capital Framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. During 2012, the Company will continue to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate.  

For a further discussion of the Company’s Tier 1 capital, see “Regulatory Requirements” herein.  

The following table presents the Company’s and business segments’ average Tier 1 capital and average common equity for 2011 and 2010.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

86  

Table of Contents 

Capital Covenants.  

In October 2006 and April 2007, the Company executed replacement capital covenants in connection with offerings by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII and Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (the “Capital Securities”), which become effective after the scheduled redemption date in 2046. Under the terms of the replacement capital covenants, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the replacement capital covenants, see the Company’s Current Reports on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006 and April 26, 2007.  

Liquidity Risk Management Framework.  

The primary goal of the Company’s liquidity risk management framework is to ensure that the Company has access to adequate funding across a wide range of market conditions. The framework is designed to enable the Company to fulfill its financial obligations and support the execution of the Company’s business strategies.  

The following principles guide the Company’s liquidity risk management framework:  

   •    Sufficient liquid assets should be maintained to cover maturing liabilities;  

   •    Maturity profile of assets and liabilities should be aligned, with limited reliance on short-term funding;  

   •    Source, counterparty, currency, region, and term of funding should be diversified; and  

   •    Limited access to funding should be anticipated through the Contingency Funding Plan.  

The core components of the Company’s liquidity risk management framework are the Contingency Funding Plan (“CFP”), Liquidity Stress Tests and the Global Liquidity Reserve. These elements support the Company’s target liquidity profile.  

Contingency Funding Plan.  

The Company maintains the CFP, which describes the data and information flows, limits and triggers, escalation procedures, roles and responsibilities, and available mitigating actions in the event of a liquidity stress. The CFP assesses current and future funding sources and uses and establishes a plan for monitoring and managing a potential liquidity stress event. A set of escalation triggers identifies early signs of stress and activates a response plan.  

Liquidity Stress Tests.  

The Company uses Liquidity Stress Tests to model liquidity outflows across multiple scenarios over a range of time horizons. These scenarios contain various combinations of idiosyncratic and systemic stress events.  

The assumptions underpinning the Liquidity Stress Tests include, but are not limited to, the following:  

   •    No government support;  

   •    No access to equity and unsecured debt markets;  

   •    Repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year;  

   •    Higher haircuts and significantly lower availability of secured funding;  

   •    Additional collateral that would be required by trading counterparties and certain exchanges and clearing organizations related to multi-notch credit rating downgrade;  

   •    Additional collateral that would be required due to collateral substitutions, collateral disputes and uncalled collateral;  

87  

Table of Contents 

   •    Discretionary unsecured debt buybacks;  

   •    Drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties;  

   •    Client cash withdrawals and reduction in customer short positions that fund long positions;  

   •    Limited access to the foreign exchange swap markets;  

   •    Return of securities borrowed on an uncollateralized basis; and  

   •    Maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance.  

The Liquidity Stress Tests are produced at the Parent company (“Parent”) and major operating subsidiary levels, as well as at major currency levels, to capture specific cash requirements and cash availability across the Company. The Liquidity Stress Tests assume that subsidiaries will use their own liquidity first to fund their obligations before drawing liquidity from the Parent. The Parent will support its subsidiaries and will not have access to subsidiaries’ liquidity reserves that are subject to any regulatory, legal or tax constraints.  

At December 31, 2011, the Company maintained sufficient liquidity to meet current and contingent funding obligations as modeled in its Liquidity Stress Tests.  

Global Liquidity Reserve.  

The Company maintains sufficient liquidity reserves (“Global Liquidity Reserve”) to cover daily funding needs and meet strategic liquidity targets sized by the CFP and Liquidity Stress Tests. These liquidity targets are based on the Company’s risk tolerance, balance sheet level and composition, subsidiary funding needs, and upcoming debt maturities, which are subject to change dependent on market and firm-specific events.  

The Global Liquidity Reserve is held within the Parent and operating subsidiaries. The Global Liquidity Reserve is comprised of highly liquid and diversified cash and cash equivalents and unencumbered securities. Eligible unencumbered securities include U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, FDIC-guaranteed corporate debt and non-U.S. government securities.  

Global Liquidity Reserve by Type of Investment.  

The table below summarizes the Company’s Global Liquidity Reserve by type of investment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) At December 31, 2011, approximately 93% of Non-U.S sovereign obligations were rated AAA.  

The ability to monetize assets during the start of a liquidity crisis is critical. The Company believes that the assets held in the Global Liquidity Reserve can be monetized within five business days in a stressed environment given the highly liquid and diversified nature of the reserves.  

88  

Table of Contents 

The currency profile of the Global Liquidity Reserve is consistent with the CFP and Liquidity Stress Tests.  

In addition to the Global Liquidity Reserve, the Company has other cash and cash equivalents and other unencumbered assets that are available for monetization which are not included in the balances in the table above.  

Global Liquidity Reserve Held by the Parent and Operating Subsidiaries.  

The table below summarizes the Global Liquidity Reserve held by the Parent and operating subsidiaries:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company calculates the average Global Liquidity Reserve based upon daily amounts.  

The Company is exposed to intra-day settlement risk in connection with liquidity provided to its major broker-dealer subsidiaries for intra-day clearing and settlement of its securities and financing activity.  

As mentioned in “Contingency Funding Plan,” the CFP assumes that the Parent will support its subsidiaries and will not have access to subsidiaries’ liquidity reserves that are subject to any regulatory, legal or tax constraints.  

Funding Management.  

The Company’s funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the Company’s operations. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of secured and unsecured funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the Company’s liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed.  

The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources may include the Company’s equity capital, long-term debt, repurchase agreements, securities lending, deposits, commercial paper, letters of credit and lines of credit. The Company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products targeting global investors and currencies.  

Secured Financing. A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term collateralized receivables arising principally from its Institutional Securities business segment’s sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in financing these assets with collateralized borrowings.  

89  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s goal is to achieve an optimal mix of secured and unsecured funding while ensuring continued growth in stable funding sources. The Institutional Securities business segment emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is generally more subject to disruption during periods of financial stress. The ability to fund less liquid assets on a secured basis may be impaired in a stress environment. To manage this risk, the Company obtains longer-term secured financing for less liquid assets and has minimal reliance on overnight financing. At December 31, 2011, the weighted average maturity of the Company’s secured financing against less liquid collateral was greater than 120 days. The Company defines less liquid collateral as that which is not consistent with the standards of the Global Liquidity Reserve. In addition, the Company minimizes refinancing risk by diversifying across both counterparties and maturities. The Company holds a portion of its Global Liquidity Reserve against a potential disruption to its secured financing capabilities. This potential disruption may be in the form of additional margin or reduced capacity to refinance maturing trades. The Company actively manages its secured financing book in accordance with established limits on tenor by asset class and seeks to build a sufficient buffer to offset various risks discussed above.  

Unsecured Financing. The Company views long-term debt and deposits as stable sources of funding for core inventories and less liquid assets. Securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, deposits, floating rate long-term debt and fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. The Company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity swaps) to assist in asset and liability management and to hedge interest rate risk (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”). In October 2008, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury invoked the systemic risk exception of the FDIC Improvement Act of 1991, and the FDIC announced the TLGP. Based on the Final Rule adopted on November 21, 2008, the TLGP provides a guarantee, through the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012, of certain senior unsecured debt issued by participating Eligible Entities (including the Company) between October 14, 2008 and June 30, 2009. Of the $23.8 billion issued by the Company under the TLGP, $12.1 billion was still outstanding at December 31, 2011.  

Short-Term Borrowings. The Company’s unsecured short-term borrowings consist of commercial paper, bank loans, bank notes and structured notes with maturities of 12 months or less at issuance.  

The table below summarizes the Company’s short-term unsecured borrowings:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) At December 31, 2011, the majority of the commercial paper balance was issued as part of client transactions and is not used for the Company’s general funding purposes.  

Deposits. The Company’s bank subsidiaries’ funding sources include bank deposits, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, certificates of deposit, money market deposit accounts, commercial paper and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. The vast majority of deposits in Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (the “Subsidiary Banks”) are sourced from the Company’s retail brokerage accounts and are considered to have stable, low cost funding characteristics.  

90  

Table of Contents 

Deposits were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Total deposits subject to FDIC Insurance at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 were $52 billion and $48 billion, respectively.  

 (2) Amounts include non-interest bearing deposits of $1,270 million and $30 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.  

 (3) Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).  

With the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the statutory standard maximum deposit insurance amount was permanently increased to $250,000 per depositor and is in effect for the Subsidiary Banks.  

Long-Term Borrowings. The Company uses a variety of long-term debt funding sources to generate liquidity, taking CFP requirements into consideration. In addition, the issuance of long-term debt allows the Company to reduce reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Long-term borrowings are generally structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and to maximize investor diversification through sales to global institutional and retail clients. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the Company’s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit.  

The Company may from time to time engage in various transactions in the credit markets (including, for example, debt retirements) that it believes are in the best interests of the Company and its investors.  

Long-term borrowings at December 31, 2011 consisted of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Credit Ratings.  

The Company relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of financing generally is impacted by the Company’s credit ratings. In addition, the Company’s credit ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. Issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of the Company’s credit ratings include governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction and business mix. Additionally, the agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of government support.  

91  

Table of Contents 

The rating agencies have stated that they currently incorporate various degrees of uplift from perceived government support in the credit ratings of systemically important banks, including the credit ratings of the Company. Rating agencies continue to monitor progress of U.S. financial reform legislation to assess whether the possibility of extraordinary government support for the financial system in any future financial crises is negatively impacted. Legislative outcomes may lead to reduced uplift assumptions for U.S. banks and thereby place downward pressure on credit ratings. At the same time, proposed U.S. financial reform legislation also has positive implications for credit ratings such as higher standards for capital and liquidity levels. The net result on credit ratings and the timing of any change in rating agency assumptions on support is currently uncertain.  

At February 17, 2012, the Company’s and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.’s senior unsecured ratings were as set forth below. The long-term credit ratings on the Company by Moody’s Investor Services, Inc (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”) are currently at different levels (commonly referred to as “split ratings”).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) On December 13, 2011, in the context of a global review of trading and universal banks, Fitch Ratings affirmed the Company’s and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.’s A/F1 long- and short-term debt ratings. A Stable Outlook was assigned.  

 (2) On February 15, 2012, Moody’s placed the ratings of 17 banks on review for downgrade in the context of a broad review of global banks with capital markets operations. As part of this review, Moody’s placed the Company’s and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A’s “A2/A1” long-term and “P-1” short-term ratings on review for downgrade.  

 (3) On November 29, 2011, Standard & Poor’s released new bank ratings for the top global banks based upon its revised methodology. The Company’s long- and short-term debt ratings were lowered one-notch from A/A-1 to A-/A-2 and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A’s long-term debt rating was lowered from A+ to A. Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.’s short-term debt rating was affirmed at A-1.  

In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, the Company may be required to provide additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties in the event of a credit rating downgrade. The following are the amounts of additional collateral or termination payments that could be called by counterparties under the terms of such agreements in the event of a downgrade of the Company’s long-term credit rating under various scenarios at December 31, 2011: $919 million (A3 Moody’s/A- S&P); $3,989 million (Baa1 Moody’s/ BBB+ S&P); and $4,743 million (Baa2 Moody’s/BBB S&P).  

Also, the Company is required to pledge additional collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a credit rating downgrade. At December 31, 2011, the increased collateral requirement at certain exchanges and clearing organizations under various scenarios was $118 million (A3 Moody’s/A- S&P); $1,183 million (Baa1 Moody’s/ BBB+ S&P); and $1,775 million (Baa2 Moody’s/BBB S&P).  

The liquidity impact of additional collateral requirements is accounted for in the Company’s CFP.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements with Unconsolidated Entities.  

The Company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including VIEs, primarily in connection with its Institutional Securities business segment.  

Institutional Securities Activities. The Company utilizes SPEs primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency  

92  

Table of Contents 

 collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $2.9 billion and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, substantially all of which were related to U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage loan and residential mortgage loan securitization transactions. For further information about the Company’s securitization activities, see Notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements.  

The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Asset Management Activities. As a general partner in certain private equity and real estate partnerships, the Company receives distributions from the partnerships according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in various partnership agreements, subject to certain limitations.  

Guarantees. Accounting guidance for guarantees requires the Company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. Guarantees are defined as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Guarantees are also defined as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity’s failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.  

The table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company’s obligations under guarantee arrangements at December 31, 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Carrying amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on derivative contracts, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (2) Approximately $2.4 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the “Commitments” table in primary and secondary lending commitments. Standby letters of credit are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial condition.  

93  

Table of Contents 

 (3) Amounts include guarantees issued by consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company of approximately $291 million. These guarantees relate to obligations of the fund’s investee entities, including guarantees related to capital expenditures and principal and interest debt payments. Accrued losses under these guarantees of approximately $55 million are reflected as a reduction of the carrying value of the related fund investments, which are reflected in Financial instruments owned—Investments on the consolidated statements of financial condition.  

In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for information on other guarantees and indemnities.  

Commitments and Contractual Obligations.  

The Company’s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment activities, corporate lending and financing arrangements, mortgage lending and margin lending at December 31, 2011 are summarized below by period of expiration. Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) This amount includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $275 million at December 31, 2011, of which $138 million have maturities of less than one year and $137 million of which have maturities of one to three years.  

 (2) This amount includes $6.4 billion of investment grade and $1.6 billion of non-investment grade unfunded commitments accounted for as held for investment at December 31, 2011. The remainder of these lending commitments are carried at fair value.  

 (3) These commitments are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial condition (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).  

 (4) The Company enters into forward starting reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements (agreements that have a trade date at or prior to December 31, 2011 and settle subsequent to period-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations. These agreements primarily settle within three business days and of the amount at December 31, 2011, $36.4 billion settled within three business days.  

For further description of these commitments, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

94  

Table of Contents 

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases, purchase obligations and expected contributions for pension and postretirement plans. The Company’s future cash payments associated with certain of its obligations at December 31, 2011 are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Amounts presented for Other secured financings are financings with original maturities greater than one year.  

 (2) Amounts represent estimated future contractual interest payments related to unsecured long-term borrowings based on applicable interest rates at December 31, 2011. Amounts include stated coupon rates, if any, on structured or index-linked notes.  

 (3) Amounts represent contractual principal and interest payments related to time deposits primarily held at the Subsidiary Banks.  

 (4) See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (5) Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, printing, computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements, certain license agreements related to MSSB, and certain transmission, transportation and storage contracts related to the commodities business. Purchase obligations at December 31, 2011 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition.  

 (6) See Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (7) Amounts exclude unrecognized tax benefits, as the timing and amount of future cash payments are not determinable at this time (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information).  

Regulatory Requirements.  

Capital.  

The Company is a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended and is subject to the regulation and oversight of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the Company’s compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company’s national bank subsidiaries (see “Other Matters—Regulatory Outlook” herein).  

The Company calculates its capital ratios and risk-weighted assets (“RWA”) in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Federal Reserve. These standards are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I. In December 2007, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations incorporating the Basel II Accord, which requires internationally active banking organizations, as well as certain of their U.S. bank subsidiaries, to implement Basel II standards over the next several years. In July 2010, the Company began reporting its capital adequacy standards on a parallel basis to its regulators under Basel I and Basel II as part of a phased implementation of Basel II.  

95  

Table of Contents 

In June 2011, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations implementing a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act requiring certain institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve, including the Company, be subject to capital requirements that are not less than the generally applicable risk-based capital requirements. As a result, the generally applicable capital standards, which are based on Basel I standards, but may themselves change over time, will serve as a permanent floor to minimum capital requirements calculated under the Basel II standards the Company is currently required to implement, as well as future capital standards. 

Basel III contains new capital standards that raise the quality of capital and strengthen counterparty credit risk capital requirements and introduce a leverage ratio as a supplemental measure to the risk-based ratio. Basel III includes a new capital conservation buffer, which imposes a common equity requirement above the new minimum that can be depleted under stress, subject to restrictions on capital actions, a new additional loss absorbency capital requirement for global systemically important banks (“GSIB”) such as the Company, and a new countercyclical buffer which regulators can activate during periods of excessive credit growth in their jurisdiction. The Basel III proposals complement an earlier proposal for revisions to the market risk framework that increases capital requirements for securitizations within the Company’s trading book. In 2011, the U.S. regulators issued proposed rules that are intended to implement certain aspects of the market risk framework proposals. The U.S. regulators will require implementation of Basel III subject to an extended phase-in period.  

In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued final rules on Capital Plans, which require large bank holding companies such as the Company to submit capital plans on an annual basis in order for the Federal Reserve to assess the companies’ systems and processes that incorporate forward-looking projections of revenue and losses to monitor and maintain their internal capital adequacy. The rules also require that such companies to obtain approval from the Federal Reserve before making a capital action.  

Under the Basel Committee’s proposed framework, based on a preliminary analysis of the guidelines published to date and other factors, the Company estimates its pro forma Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III will be in a range between 8% and 10% by the end of 2012. These are preliminary estimates and may change based on guidelines for implementation to be issued by the Federal Reserve. These preliminary estimates are forward-looking and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, please see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A herein.  

In accordance with the Federal Reserve’s new Capital Plans final rule, Tier 1 common capital is calculated as Tier 1 capital less non-common elements in Tier 1 capital. Non-common elements include perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, minority interests in subsidiaries, trust preferred securities and mandatory convertible preferred securities. The Federal Reserve will work with the other federal banking agencies to implement Basel III and to propose a Basel III Tier 1 common capital ratio as a new minimum regulatory capital ratio. The existing supervisory definition of Tier 1 common capital will remain in force under the Capital Plans final rule until the Federal Reserve adopts the Basel III Tier 1 common ratio.  

Pursuant to provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, over time, trust preferred securities will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital but will only qualify as Tier 2 capital. This change in regulatory capital treatment will be phased in incrementally during a transition period that will start on January 1, 2013 and end on January 1, 2016. This provision of the Dodd-Frank Act accelerates the phasing in of the disqualification of the trust preferred securities as provided for by Basel III.  

At December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with Basel I capital requirements with ratios of Tier 1 capital to RWAs of 16.6% and total capital to RWAs of 17.8% (6% and 10% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes, respectively). Also, the ratio of Tier 1 common capital to RWAs was 13.0% (5% being the minimum under the Federal Reserve’s new capital plan framework). In addition, financial holding companies are also subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the Federal Reserve. The Company calculated its Tier 1 leverage ratio as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed  

96  

Table of Contents 

 goodwill, certain intangible assets, deferred tax assets and financial and non-financial equity investments). The adjusted average total assets are derived using weekly balances for the year. At December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with this leverage restriction, with a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 6.8% (5% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes).  

The following table reconciles the Company’s total shareholders’ equity to Tier 1 common, Tier 1, Tier 2 and Total allowable capital as defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve and presents the Company’s consolidated capital ratios at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) At December 31, 2010, the Company’s RWAs, Total capital ratio, Tier 1 common capital ratio and Tier 1 capital ratio were adjusted to $340,884 million, 16.0%, 10.2% and 15.5%, respectively, from $329,560 million, 16.5%, 10.5% and 16.1%, respectively, based on revised guidance from the Federal Reserve about the Company’s capital treatment for OTC derivatives collateral.  

 (2) Tier 1 common capital ratio equals Tier 1 common capital divided by RWA. On December 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve formalized regulatory definitions for Tier 1 common capital and Tier 1 common capital ratio. The Federal Reserve defined Tier 1 common capital as Tier 1 capital less non-common elements in Tier 1 capital, including perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, minority interest in subsidiaries, trust preferred securities and mandatory convertible preferred securities. Previously, the Company’s definition of Tier 1 common capital included all of the items noted in the Federal Reserve’s definition, but it also included an adjustment for the portion of goodwill and non-servicing intangible assets associated with MSSB’s noncontrolling interests (i.e., Citi’s share of MSSB’s goodwill and intangibles). The Company’s conformance to the Federal Reserve’s definition under the final rule reduced its Tier 1 common capital and Tier 1 common ratio by approximately $4.2 billion and 132 basis points, respectively at December 31, 2011.  

97  

Table of Contents 

Total allowable capital is composed of Tier 1 capital, which includes Tier 1 common capital, and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 common capital is defined as Tier 1 capital less non-common elements in Tier 1 capital, including qualifying perpetual stock and qualifying restricted core capital elements, as per the Capital Plans final rule. Tier 1 capital consists predominately of common shareholders’ equity as well as qualifying preferred stock and qualifying restricted core capital elements (trust preferred securities and noncontrolling interests) less goodwill, non-servicing intangible assets (excluding allowable mortgage servicing rights), net deferred tax assets (recoverable in excess of one year), an after-tax debt valuation adjustment and certain other deductions, including equity investments. The debt valuation adjustment in the above table represents the cumulative change in fair value of certain long-term and short-term borrowings that was attributable to the Company’s own instrument-specific credit spreads and is included in retained earnings. For a further discussion of fair value, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.  

At December 31, 2011, the Company calculated its RWAs in accordance with the regulatory capital requirements of the Federal Reserve, which is consistent with guidelines described under Basel I. RWAs reflect both on and off-balance sheet risk of the Company. The risk capital calculations will evolve over time as the Company enhances its risk management methodology and incorporates improvements in modeling techniques while maintaining compliance with the regulatory requirements and interpretations.  

Market RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other factors. For a further discussion of the Company’s market risks and Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) model, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7A herein. Market RWAs incorporate two components: systematic risk and specific risk. Systematic and specific risk charges are computed using either the Company’s VaR model or Standardized Approach in accordance with regulatory requirements.  

Credit RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations. For a further discussion of the Company’s credit risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

Liquidity.  

The Basel Committee has developed two standards for supervisors to use in liquidity risk supervision. The first standard’s objective is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks and bank holding companies. The Basel Committee developed the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) to ensure banks have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to cover net outflows arising from significant stress lasting 30 calendar days. The standard requires that the value of the ratio be no lower than 100%. The second standard’s objective is to promote resilience over a longer time horizon. The Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”) has a time horizon of one year and builds on traditional “net liquid asset” and “cash capital” methodologies used widely by internationally active banking organizations to provide a sustainable maturity structure of assets and liabilities. The NSFR is defined as the amount of available stable funding to the amount of required stable funding. This ratio must be greater than 100%. After an observation period beginning in 2011, the LCR, including any revisions, will be introduced on January 1, 2015. The NSFR, including any revisions, will move to a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. The Company will continue to monitor the development and the potential impact of these standards.  

In addition, in December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement certain requirements of the systemic risk regime, including with respect to liquidity. The proposed rules would require systemically important financial institutions, such as the Company, to maintain a sufficient quantity of highly liquid assets to survive a projected 30-day liquidity stress event, to conduct regular liquidity stress tests, and to implement various liquidity risk management requirements.  

98  

Table of Contents 

Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.  

The Company’s assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the Company’s expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and profitability.  

A significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company’s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows.  

99  

Table of Contents 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.