ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is designed to provide a reader of Danaher’s financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Company’s MD&A is divided into five sections:

•Overview

•Results of Operations

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Critical Accounting Estimates

•New Accounting Standards

OVERVIEW

General

Please see “Item 1. Business – General” for a discussion of Danaher’s objectives and methodologies for delivering shareholder value. Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. During 2015, approximately 56% of Danaher’s sales were derived from customers outside the United States. As a diversified, global business, Danaher’s operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic and political factors. Danaher’s geographic and industry diversity, as well as the range of its products and services, typically help limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured, software and services provided and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. The Company’s individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future.

As a result of the Company’s geographic and industry diversity, the Company faces a variety of opportunities and challenges, including rapid technological development (particularly with respect to computing, mobile connectivity, communications and digitization) in most of the Company’s served markets, the expansion and evolution of opportunities in high-growth markets, trends and costs associated with a global labor force, consolidation of the Company’s competitors and increasing regulation. The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and the Company’s long-term growth and profitability will depend in particular on its ability to expand its business in high-growth geographies and high-growth market segments, identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative and differentiated new products, services and software with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of the Company’s sales force, continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality, and effectively address the demands of an increasingly regulated environment. The Company is making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address the rapid pace of technological change in its served markets and to globalize its manufacturing, research and development and customer-facing resources (particularly in high-growth markets) in order to be responsive to the Company’s customers throughout the world and improve the efficiency of the Company’s operations. 

Business Performance and Outlook

While differences exist among the Company’s businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Company’s products, software and services increased in 2015 as compared to 2014 resulting in aggregate year-over-year sales growth from existing businesses of 3.0%. The Company’s continued investments in sales growth initiatives and the other business-specific factors discussed below also contributed to year-over-year sales growth. Geographically, both high-growth and developed markets contributed to year-over-year sales growth from existing businesses during 2015. Sales growth rates from existing businesses in high-growth markets grew at a mid-single digit rate in 2015 as compared to 2014 led by strength in China and India, partially offset by weakness in Russia and Latin America. High-growth markets represented approximately 27% of the Company’s total sales in 2015. Sales from existing businesses in developed markets grew at a low-single digit rate in 2015 as compared to 2014 and were driven by North America and Western Europe. While individual business results will vary, the Company expects sales from existing businesses to continue to grow on a year-over-year basis during 2016 at a level in line with the growth levels experienced in 2015 but remains cautious about challenges due to macro-economic and geopolitical uncertainties, including global uncertainties related to monetary and fiscal policies.

The acquisition of Pall, as further discussed below, provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company’s Life Sciences and Diagnostics segment by expanding the segment’s geographic and product line diversity, 

29
including new and complementary product and service offerings in the area of filtration, separation and purification technologies, and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. As Pall is integrated into the Company, the Company also expects to realize significant cost synergies through the application of the Danaher Business System and the combined purchasing power of the Company and Pall.

Danaher Separation

On May 13, 2015, the Company announced its intention to separate into two independent, publicly traded companies (the “Separation”). Completion of the Separation will create:

•a multi-industry, science and technology growth company that will retain the Danaher name and consist of Danaher’s existing Life Sciences & Diagnostics (including Pall) and Dental segments and water quality as well as the product identification businesses, which in aggregate generated approximately $16.5 billion of revenue in 2015 (adjusted to include the full annual revenues of Pall for 2015); and

•a diversified industrial growth company (Fortive Corporation (“Fortive”)) that will consist of Danaher’s existing Test & Measurement segment, Industrial Technologies segment (excluding the product identification businesses) and retail/commercial petroleum business, which in aggregate generated approximately $6.0 billion of revenue in 2015.

The transaction is expected to occur through a tax-free separation. The Company is targeting to complete the Separation in the third quarter of 2016, subject to final approval by Danaher’s Board of Directors and other customary conditions. The Separation will be in the form of a pro rata distribution to Danaher shareholders of 100% of the outstanding shares of Fortive.

Acquisitions

On August 31, 2015, Pentagon Merger Sub, Inc., a New York corporation and an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Pall, a New York corporation, for $127.20 per share in cash, for a total purchase price of approximately $13.6 billion, net of assumed debt of $417 million and acquired cash of approximately $1.2 billion (the “Pall Acquisition”). Pall is a leading global provider of filtration, separation and purification solutions that remove contaminants or separate substances from a variety of solids, liquids and gases, and is now part of the Company’s Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment. In its fiscal year ended July 31, 2015, Pall generated consolidated revenues of approximately $2.8 billion. Pall serves customers in the biopharmaceutical, food and beverage and medical markets as well as the process technologies, aerospace and microelectronics markets.

The Company financed the approximately $13.6 billion acquisition price of Pall with approximately $2.5 billion of available cash, approximately $8.1 billion of net proceeds from the issuance and sale of U.S. dollar and Euro-denominated commercial paper and €2.7 billion (approximately $3.0 billion based on currency exchange rates as of the date of issuance) of net proceeds from the issuance and sale of Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes. Subsequent to the Pall Acquisition, the Company used the approximately $2.0 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar-denominated senior unsecured notes and the approximately CHF 755 million ($732 million based on currency exchange rates as of date of issuance) of net proceeds, including the related premium, from the issuance and sale of Swiss franc-denominated senior unsecured bonds to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the Pall Acquisition.

In addition to the Pall Acquisition, during 2015 the Company acquired 11 businesses for total consideration of approximately $727 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company’s five segments. The aggregate annual sales of these 11 businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $375 million.

Disposition of Communications Business

In July 2015, the Company consummated the split-off of the majority of its Test & Measurement segment’s communications business (other than the data communications cable installation business and the communication service provider business of Fluke Networks which are now part of the instruments business of the Company’s Test & Measurement segment) to Danaher shareholders who elected to exchange Danaher shares for ownership interests in the communications business, and the subsequent merger of the communications business with a subsidiary of NetScout. Danaher shareholders who participated in the exchange offer tendered 26 million shares of Danaher common stock (valued at approximately $2.3 billion based on the closing price of Danaher’s common stock on the date of tender) and received 62.5 million shares of NetScout common stock which represented approximately 60% of the shares of NetScout common stock outstanding following the combination.

The accounting requirements for reporting the disposition of the communications business as a discontinued operation were met when the separation and merger were completed. Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements for all periods presented reflect this business as discontinued operations. The Company allocated a portion of the consolidated interest 

30
expense to discontinued operations based on the ratio of the discontinued business’ net assets to the Company’s consolidated net assets. The Company recorded an aggregate after-tax gain on the disposition of this business of $767 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, in its 2015 results in connection with the closing of this transaction representing the value of the 26 million shares of Company common stock tendered for the communications business in excess of the carrying value of the business’ net assets. This gain was included in the results of discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 and included $47 million of charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2015 resulting from the reconciliation of deferred income tax balances used in calculating the gain recorded in the third quarter of 2015. The communications business had revenues of $346 million in 2015 prior to the disposition and $760 million in 2014.

For a discussion of the Company’s 2014 and 2013 acquisition and divestiture activity, refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Investing Activities”.

Sale of Investments

During 2015, the Company received cash proceeds of $43 million from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to these sales of $12 million ($8 million after-tax or $0.01 per diluted share).

For a discussion of the Company’s 2014 and 2013 sale of investments activity, refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Investing Activities”.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased 7.5% compared to 2014. Sales from existing businesses contributed 3.0% growth and sales from acquired businesses contributed 10.5% growth on a year-over-year basis. The impact of currency translation reduced reported sales by 6.0% as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against other major currencies during 2015 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2014.

Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased 5.0% compared to 2013. Sales from existing businesses contributed 4.0% growth and sales from acquired businesses contributed 1.5% growth on a year-over-year basis. The impact of currency translation reduced reported sales by 0.5% as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against other major currencies during 2014 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2013.

In this report, references to sales from existing businesses refers to sales from continuing operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) but excluding (1) sales from acquired businesses and (2) the impact of currency translation. References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to GAAP sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition less the amount of sales and operating profit, as applicable, attributable to divested product lines not considered discontinued operations. The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses) and (b) the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period. Sales from existing businesses should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes that reporting the non-GAAP financial measure of sales from existing businesses provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in our business and facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with our performance in prior and future periods and to our peers. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from sales from existing businesses because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions and divestiture related items because the nature, size and number of acquisitions and divestitures can vary dramatically from period to period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult. References to sales volume refer to the impact of both price and unit sales.

Operating profit margins were 16.9% for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 17.5% in 2014. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2015 vs. 2014 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31
•Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 25 basis points

2015 vs. 2014 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•Acquisition related charges associated with Pall, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control payments, and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue, net of the positive impact of freezing pension benefits - 65 basis points[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Charges associated with the anticipated 2016 Separation - 10 basis points

The Company deems acquisition-related transaction costs incurred in a given period to be significant (generally relating to the Company’s larger acquisitions) if it determines that such costs exceed the range of acquisition-related transaction costs typical for the Company in a given period.

Operating profit margins were 17.5% for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to 17.1% in 2013. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:

•Higher 2014 sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2013 and 2014, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 95 basis points

2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•Incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 15 basis points

•The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses and acquisition-related charges recorded in 2014 associated with the Nobel Biocare acquisition, including transaction costs deemed significant and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory, net of the positive effect of the product line disposition in the third quarter of 2014 - 40 basis points

Business Segments

Sales by business segment for the years ended December 31 are as follows ($ in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

TEST & MEASUREMENT

The Company’s Test & Measurement segment offers essential products, software and services used to create actionable intelligence by measuring and monitoring a wide range of physical parameters in industrial applications, including electrical current, radio frequency signals, distance, pressure and temperature. The Company’s instruments products include a variety of compact professional test tools, thermal imaging and calibration equipment for electrical, industrial, electronic and calibration applications. These products and associated software solutions measure voltage, current, resistance, power quality, frequency, pressure, temperature and air quality, among other parameters. The Company also sells services and products that help developers and engineers convert concepts into finished products. The Company’s test, measurement and monitoring products are used in the design, manufacturing and development of electronics, industrial, video and other advanced technologies. Also 

32
included in the Test & Measurement segment are the Company’s professional tools and wheel service equipment businesses. As a result of the July 2015 split-off of the Company’s communications business, which was previously reported as part of the Test & Measurement segment, all current year and prior year results of the segment have been adjusted to exclude the results of this discontinued operation. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the disposition of the communications business.

Test & Measurement Selected Financial Data

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Components of Sales Growth

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 Compared to 2014

Price increases in the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2015 as compared to 2014 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s instruments business were flat during 2015 as compared to 2014, due to increased year-over-year sales of calibration, thermography and biomedical products, primarily from sales in developed markets offset by year-over-year declines in sales in the government and the semi-conductor end-markets. Industrial end-market sales were essentially flat for the year but slowed during the second half of 2015 reflecting lower overall point of sale demand. Geographically, growth continued to be strong in Western Europe and China while demand remained weak in Russia and Latin America.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s mobile tool and wheel service businesses grew at a low-double digit rate during 2015 as compared to 2014 due to continued strong demand for tool storage solutions as well as increases in the number of franchisees, primarily in the United States.

Operating profit margins increased 190 basis points during 2015 as compared to 2014. The following factors favorably impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Reimbursement of costs related to finance and accounting, information technology and other services provided under a transition services agreement entered into with NetScout in connection with the disposition of the communications business (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) - 45 basis points

•Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 10 basis points

33
2014 Compared to 2013

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2014 as compared to 2013 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s instruments business grew at a low-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013, due to increased year-over-year sales of electrical and calibration products, primarily from strong sales of new product offerings. Geographically, growth was led by increased demand in North America, China, and Western Europe.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s mobile tool and wheel service businesses grew during 2014 as compared to 2013.

Operating profit margins increased 130 basis points during 2014 as compared to 2013. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•Incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 10 basis points

•The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses - 15 basis points

ENVIRONMENTAL

The Company’s Environmental segment products and services help protect the global water supply, facilitate environmental stewardship, enhance the safety of personal data and improve business efficiencies. The Company’s water quality business provides instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, waste, ground and ocean water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications. The Company’s retail/commercial petroleum business is a leading worldwide provider of solutions and services focused on fuel dispensing, remote fuel management, point-of-sale and payment systems, environmental compliance, vehicle tracking and fleet management.

Environmental Selected Financial Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34
Components of Sales Growth

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 Compared to 2014 

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2015 as compared with 2014 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s water quality businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2015 as compared with 2014. Sales growth in the analytical instrumentation product line continued to be led by strong sales of instruments and related consumables and services in North America, primarily in the U.S. municipal end market, Europe and China (although growth slowed sequentially in China during the fourth quarter of 2015, partly due to delays in government projects). Year-over-year sales growth in the business’ chemical treatment solutions product line was due to continued growth in the United States as well as continued business expansion in Latin America. Sales in the business’ ultraviolet water disinfection product line grew on a year-over-year basis due to continued demand in industrial disinfection end markets in the United States and municipal end markets in the United States and Western Europe. 

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s retail petroleum business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2015 as compared with 2014, as year-over-year demand for the business’ dispenser systems, service and point-of-sale systems continued to be strong, primarily in North America. Customers, predominantly in the United States, have begun to upgrade point-of-sale systems to comply with deadlines for enhanced security requirements based on the Europay, MasterCard and Visa (“EMV”) global standard and the Company expects this trend to continue to drive growth for the next several years. This growth was partially offset by lower year-over-year sales of retail petroleum products in the Middle East, Russia and Western Europe, largely due to softness in demand from integrated oil companies.

Operating profit margins increased 160 basis points during 2015 as compared to 2014. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 

2015 vs. 2014 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 70 basis points 

2015 vs. 2014 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2014 Compared to 2013

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2014 as compared with 2013 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s water quality business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared with 2013. Sales growth in the analytical instrumentation product line was led primarily by continued strong sales of instruments and related consumables and service in North America, China, Europe and Latin America. Sales in the business’ chemical treatment solutions product line grew on a year-over-year basis due primarily to continued sales force investments in the U.S. market, and to a lesser extent, continued international expansion. Year-over-year sales in the business’ ultraviolet water disinfection product line declined during 2014 due to continued weak demand in municipal end markets, primarily in North America and Western Europe.

35
Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s retail petroleum equipment business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared with 2013. Demand for the business’ dispenser systems was particularly strong in North America and China during 2014. Continued strong demand for point-of-sale systems, service and vapor recovery products in most major geographies also contributed to year-over-year sales growth.

Operating profit margins declined 110 basis points during 2014 as compared to 2013. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:

•Higher 2014 sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2013 and 2014, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 35 basis points

2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•Incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 50 basis points

•The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses - 95 basis points

Depreciation as a percentage of sales increased during 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily as a result of investments in assets leased to customers, largely in businesses acquired during the second half of 2013. The inclusion of a full year of depreciation expense in 2014 and continued investments in such assets drove the increase.

LIFE SCIENCES & DIAGNOSTICS

The Company’s diagnostics business offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians’ offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. The Company’s life sciences business offers a broad range of research tools that scientists use to study the basic building blocks of life, including genes, proteins, metabolites and cells in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines. The Company through its newly acquired Pall business is also a leading provider of products used to remove solid, liquid and gaseous contaminants from a variety of liquids and gases, consisting primarily of filtration consumables and to a lesser extent systems that incorporate filtration consumables and associated hardware. 

Life Sciences & Diagnostics Selected Financial Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Components of Sales Growth

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36
2015 Compared to 2014

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2015 as compared with 2014 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s diagnostics business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2015 as compared to 2014. Demand in the clinical business increased on a year-over-year basis led by growth in the urinalysis and immunoassay consumable products primarily from continuing strong demand in China and other high-growth markets. Continued strong consumable sales in 2015 related to the installed base of blood gas instruments in developed markets as well as strong instrument placement particularly in China and the Middle East drove the majority of the year-over-year sales growth in the critical care diagnostic business. Increased demand for advanced staining systems and consumables as well as probes primarily in North America and China drove the majority of the year-over-year sales growth in the anatomical pathology diagnostics business.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s life sciences business grew at a low-single digit rate during 2015 as compared to 2014. Geographically, sales grew on a year-over-year basis in North America and Western Europe partially offset by declines in the Middle East and Brazil. Sales of the business’ broad range of mass spectrometers continued to grow on a year-over-year basis led by strong sales growth in the clinical markets in North America, Western Europe and China. Sales of confocal and stereo microscopy products decreased on a year-over-year basis led by declines in Western Europe and high-growth markets which were partially offset by growth in surgical microscopy products, primarily in North America. Year-over-year demand for the business’ flow cytometry and sample preparation product lines grew in 2015, led by increases in demand in North America, Western Europe and China.

The Pall Acquisition provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the segment by expanding geographic and product line diversity, including new product and service offerings in the areas of filtration, separation and purification, and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. As Pall is integrated into the Company over the next several years, the Company expects to realize approximately $300 million in annual cost savings as compared to Pall’s annual expense level prior to acquisition, through the application of the Danaher Business System and the combined purchasing power of the Company and Pall.

Operating profit margins decreased 210 basis points during 2015 as compared to 2014. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2015 vs. 2014 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 30 basis points

2015 vs. 2014 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•Acquisition-related charges associated with Pall, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control payments, and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue, net of the positive impact of freezing pension benefits - 155 basis points[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depreciation and amortization expense increased during 2015 as compared to 2014 due primarily to the impact of recently acquired businesses, particularly Pall, and the resulting increase in depreciable and amortizable assets.

2014 Compared to 2013 

Year-over-year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact during 2014.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s diagnostics business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013. Demand in the clinical business increased on a year-over-year basis led by continuing strong demand in China and other high-growth markets and a return to growth in North America. Continued strong global consumable sales in 2014 related to the installed base of critical care instruments drove the majority of the year-over-year sales growth in the critical care diagnostic 

37
business, which was led by China and other high-growth markets as well as modest increases in Western Europe. Increased demand for advanced staining systems and consumables across all major geographies drove the majority of the year-over-year sales growth in the anatomical pathology diagnostics business. Slight overall increases in demand for core histology instruments, led by North America, also contributed to this growth.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s life sciences business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013 due primarily to continued strong demand for the business’ recently introduced products. Geographically, sales grew on a year-over-year basis in North America and Western Europe but declined in China and Japan. Sales of the business’ broad range of mass spectrometers continued to grow on a year-over-year basis led by strong sales growth in the applied markets in North America and Western Europe. Sales of confocal, stereo and surgical microscopy products increased on a year-over-year basis led by strong demand in the developed markets. Year-over-year demand for the business’ cellular analysis and sample preparation product lines grew at a low single digit rate in 2014, led by increases in demand in North America and Western Europe that, were largely offset by sales declines in China and Japan. 

Operating profit margins increased 70 basis points during 2014 as compared to 2013. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 

2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:

•Higher 2014 sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2013 and 2014, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 110 basis points

2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: 

•Incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 20 basis points

•The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses - 20 basis points

DENTAL

The Company’s Dental segment provides products that are used to diagnose, treat and prevent disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone, as well as to improve the aesthetics of the human smile. The Company is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of dental consumables, equipment and services, and is dedicated to driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity.

Dental Selected Financial Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

38
Components of Sales Growth

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 Compared to 2014 

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2015 as compared with 2014 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses were flat on a year-over-year basis as increased demand for dental treatment units and consumable products, including orthodontic products, primarily in China and other high-growth markets, was offset by softness in demand for imaging products, largely due to destocking in the North American distribution channel, and weaker demand in Western Europe. Management believes the destocking impact will be less significant in 2016 as compared to 2015. Lower year-over-year demand for dental equipment in the Middle East due to slower project activity during 2015 also adversely impacted year-over-year performance. The acquisition of Nobel Biocare in December 2014 has provided additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company’s Dental segment by expanding the businesses’ geographic and product line diversity, including new and complementary product and service offerings in the area of implant based tooth replacements.

Operating profit margins declined 40 basis points during 2015 as compared to 2014. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2015 vs. 2014 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 10 basis points

2015 vs. 2014 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Depreciation and amortization increased during 2015 as compared with 2014 due primarily to the impact of recently acquired businesses, primarily Nobel Biocare.

2014 Compared to 2013 

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2014 as compared with 2013 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses grew on a year-over-year basis as a result of increased demand for all major product categories, with strong sales of imaging products, instruments and implant products, along with modest growth in dental consumables. Geographically, year-over-year sales grew in Europe and high-growth markets, specifically China and the Middle East. 

Operating profit margins declined 70 basis points during 2014 as compared to 2013. The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons.

2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:

•Higher 2014 sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2013 and 2014, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 80 basis points

39
2014 vs. 2013 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by:

•Incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 35 basis points 

•The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses - 40 basis points

•Acquisition-related charges recorded in 2014 associated with the Nobel Biocare acquisition, including transaction costs deemed significant and fair value adjustments to acquired inventory - 75 basis points

INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES

The Company’s Industrial Technologies segment solutions help protect the world’s food supply, improve packaging design and quality, verify pharmaceutical dosages and authenticity and power innovative machines. The Company’s product identification businesses develop and manufacture equipment, consumables and software for various printing, marking, coding, packaging, design and color management applications on consumer and industrial products. The Company’s automation business provides electromechanical and electronic motion control products and mechanical components for the automation market. In addition to the product identification and automation strategic lines of business, the segment also includes the Company’s sensors and controls, energetic materials and engine retarder businesses. 

Industrial Technologies Selected Financial Data 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Components of Sales Growth

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 Compared to 2014 

Price increases in the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2015 as compared with 2014 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s product identification businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2015 as compared with 2014, due to continued increased demand for marking and coding equipment and related consumables as well as packaging and color solutions. Geographically, year-over-year sales growth was led by North America and Europe (although North America declined slightly in the fourth quarter of 2015), but was partly offset by softer demand for the business’ packaging and color solutions in Brazil and Russia.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s automation business increased slightly during 2015 as compared to 2014. A strong increase in year-over-year demand in technology and defense related end-markets in North America and distribution-related end markets in Europe, was largely offset by lower demand in North American distribution and industrial automation related end-markets as well as agricultural-related end markets in North America and Europe. During the third quarter of 2014, the Company sold its electric vehicle systems (“EVS”)/hybrid product line. The impact of this divestiture is reflected in “Acquisitions (divestitures), net” in the Components of Sales Growth table above as the disposition was not deemed a 

40
discontinued operation for financial reporting purposes. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this transaction. 

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s other businesses collectively declined at a low-single digit rate during 2015 as compared with 2014. Sales in the segment’s energetic materials and sensors and controls businesses declined on a year-over-year basis, while sales in the segment’s engine retarder business were essentially flat on a year-over-year basis.

Operating profit margins increased 140 basis points during 2015 as compared to 2014. Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 20 basis points

•The incremental net dilutive effect in 2015 of acquired businesses was fully offset by the positive effect of the product line disposition in the third quarter of 2014

2014 Compared to 2013 

Price increases in the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2014 as compared with 2013 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s product identification businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013. Continued increased demand for marking and coding equipment and related consumables as well as packaging and color solutions was partially offset by continued lower year-over-year demand in consumer electronics-related equipment. Geographically, year-over-year sales growth was led by North America and Europe.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s automation business grew at a low-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013. Improved year-over-year demand in industrial automation, in North America distribution and in medical related end-markets was partially offset by lower year-over-year demand in technology, agricultural and defense-related end-markets and the effect of exiting certain low-margin original equipment manufacturer product lines which negatively impacted the first half of 2014. Geographically, strong year-over-year demand in China and other high-growth markets as well as moderate sales growth in North America, more than offset year-over-year sales declines in Europe. 

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s other businesses collectively grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily due to strong demand in the segment’s engine retarder business, and to a lesser extent, continued improving demand in the segment’s sensors and controls businesses.

Operating profit margins increased 160 basis points during 2014 as compared to 2013. Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by:

•Higher 2014 sales volumes from existing businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2013 and 2014, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various product development, sales and marketing growth investments - 115 basis points

•Lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 45 basis points

•The incremental net dilutive effect in 2014 of acquired businesses was fully offset by the positive effect of the product line disposition in the third quarter of 2014

41
COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The year-over-year increase in cost of sales during 2015 as compared with 2014, is due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales volumes from recently acquired businesses, and 2015 acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue in connection with the acquisition of Pall and Nobel Biocare during the third quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter of 2014, respectively, which increased cost of sales by $111 million during 2015. These factors were partially offset by lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvements taken in 2014 and 2015.

The year-over-year increase in cost of sales during 2014 as compared with 2013, is due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory in connection with the acquisition of Nobel Biocare during the fourth quarter of 2014 and incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives, partially offset by incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvements taken in 2013 and 2014.

Gross profit margins increased 70 basis points on a year-over-year basis during 2015 as compared with 2014, due primarily to the favorable impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, higher gross profit margins of recently acquired businesses and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvements taken in 2014 and 2015. These positive factors more than offset the 2015 acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue in connection with the acquisition of Pall and Nobel Biocare during the third quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter of 2014, respectively, which adversely impacted gross profit margins comparisons by 30 basis points during 2015 as compared with 2014.

Gross profit margins increased 50 basis points on a year-over-year basis during 2014 as compared with 2013, due primarily to the favorable impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvements taken in 2013 and 2014, partially offset by acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory in connection with the acquisition of Nobel Biocare during the fourth quarter of 2014 and incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives.

OPERATING EXPENSES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales increased 130 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2015 compared with 2014. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales from 2014 to 2015 was driven by continued investments in sales and marketing growth initiatives and higher relative spending levels at recently acquired businesses. In addition, costs incurred in connection with the Separation adversely impacted year-over-year comparisons by 10 basis points. Change in control payments to Pall employees in connection with the Pall Acquisition, as well as associated transaction costs and amortization charges associated with acquisition-related intangible assets, net of the positive impact of freezing pension benefits, adversely impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales by 20 basis points during 2015. These increases were partially offset by the benefit of increased leverage of the Company’s 

42
general and administrative cost base resulting from higher 2015 sales, lower year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvements taken in 2014 and 2015.

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales increased 10 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2014 compared with 2013. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales from 2013 to 2014 reflects incremental year-over-year investments in the Company’s sales and marketing growth initiatives, higher corporate expenses and incremental year-over-year costs associated with restructuring actions and continuing productivity improvement initiatives. In addition, transaction costs incurred in connection with the closing of the Nobel Biocare acquisition during the fourth quarter of 2014 unfavorably impacted the year-over-year comparison by approximately five basis points. These increases were partially offset by the benefit of increased leverage of the Company’s general and administrative cost base resulting from higher 2014 sales and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with 2013 and 2014 restructuring actions.

Research and development expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales remained flat in 2015 as compared with 2014 and 2013.

OTHER INCOME 

During 2015, the Company received cash proceeds of $43 million from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to these sales of $12 million ($8 million after-tax or $0.01 per diluted share).

During 2014, the Company received cash proceeds of $167 million from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to these sales of $123 million ($77 million after-tax or $0.11 per diluted share). In addition, the Company completed the divestiture of its EVS/hybrid product line for a sale price of $87 million in cash in August 2014. This product line, which was part of the Industrial Technologies segment, had revenues of approximately $60 million in 2014 prior to the divestiture and approximately $100 million in 2013. Operating results of the product line were not significant to segment or overall Company reported results. The Company recorded a pretax gain on the sale of the product line of $34 million ($26 million after-tax or $0.04 per diluted share) in its third quarter 2014 results. Subsequent to the sale, the Company has no continuing involvement in the EVS/hybrid product line. 

During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company sold 5 million of the 8 million shares of Align Technology, Inc. (“Align”) common stock that the Company received in 2009 as a result of a settlement between Align and Ormco Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The Company received cash proceeds of $251 million from the sale of these marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain of $202 million ($125 million after-tax or $0.18 per diluted share).

On July 4, 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc (“Cooper”), combining certain of the Company’s hand tool businesses with Cooper’s Tools business to form a new entity, Apex Tool Group, LLC (“Apex”). Each of Cooper and the Company had owned a 50% interest in Apex, had an equal number of representatives on Apex’s Board of Directors and neither joint venture partner controlled the significant operating and financing activities of Apex. The Company had accounted for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting.

In February 2013, the Company and Cooper sold Apex to an unrelated third party for approximately $1.6 billion. The Company received $797 million from the sale, consisting of cash of $759 million (including $67 million of dividends received prior to closing) and a note receivable of $38 million (which has been subsequently collected). The Company recognized a pretax gain of $230 million ($144 million after-tax or $0.20 per diluted share) in its first quarter 2013 results in connection with this transaction. The Company’s share of the 2013 earnings generated by Apex prior to the closing of the sale was insignificant. Subsequent to the sale of its investment in Apex, the Company has no continuing involvement in Apex’s operations.

INTEREST COSTS

Interest expense of $163 million for 2015 was $44 million higher than in 2014, due primarily to the higher interest costs associated with the debt issued in connection with the Pall Acquisition. For a further description of the Company’s debt as of December 31, 2015 see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest expense of $119 million in 2014 was $22 million lower than the 2013 interest expense of $141 million due primarily to the repayment of the $400 million principal amount of 1.3% senior unsecured notes due 2014 upon maturity in June 2014 in addition to the repayment of the €500 million principal amount of Eurobond notes due 2013 and the $300 million principal amount of floating rate senior notes due 2013 upon maturity in July and June 2013, respectively.

43
INCOME TAXES

General

Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management’s assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Company’s financial statements. The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur.

The Company’s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities and changes in tax laws, including legislative policy changes that may result from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s initiative on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting. For a description of the tax treatment of earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, refer to “—Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash and Cash Requirements” below.

The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities, tax rulings and court decisions and the expiration of statutes of limitations, reserves for contingent tax liabilities are accrued or adjusted as necessary. For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

Year-Over-Year Changes in the Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate

The Company’s effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was 21.8%, 25.2% and 24.2%, respectively.

The Company’s effective tax rate for each of 2015, 2014 and 2013 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35.0% due principally to the Company’s earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate. The effective tax rate of 21.8% in 2015 includes net tax benefits from foreign exchange losses, releases of valuation allowances related to foreign operating losses and the release of reserves upon the expiration of statutes of limitation, partially offset by changes in estimates associated with prior period uncertain tax positions and other matters. The effective tax rate of 25.2% in 2014 includes tax expense for audit settlements in various jurisdictions, partially offset by the release of valuation allowances and the release of reserves upon the expiration of statutes of limitation. The effective tax rate of 24.2% in 2013 includes recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolutions of certain international and domestic uncertain tax positions and the lapse of certain statutes of limitations, partially offset by adjustments of reserve estimates related to prior period uncertain tax positions. The matters referenced above have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and in the aggregate reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 140 and 20 basis points in 2015 and 2013, respectively, and increased the provision for income taxes by approximately 170 basis points in 2014.

The Company conducts business globally, and files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the United States federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. The countries in which the Company has a significant presence that have significantly lower statutory tax rates than the United States include China, Denmark, Germany, Singapore, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The Company’s ability to obtain a tax benefit from lower statutory tax rates outside of the United States is dependent on its levels of taxable income in these foreign countries and the amount of foreign earnings which are indefinitely reinvested in those countries. The Company believes that a change in the statutory tax rate of any individual foreign country would not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements given the geographic dispersion of the Company’s taxable income.

The Company and its subsidiaries are routinely examined by various domestic and international taxing authorities. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has completed examinations of certain of the Company’s federal income tax returns through 2009 and is currently examining certain of the Company’s federal income tax returns for 2010 through 2013. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Singapore, Sweden, the United Kingdom and various other countries, states and provinces that are currently under audit for years ranging from 2003 through 2014.

Tax authorities in Denmark have raised significant issues related to interest accrued by certain of the Company’s subsidiaries. On December 10, 2013, the Company received assessments from the Danish tax authority (“SKAT”) totaling approximately DKK 1.2 billion (approximately $180 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2015) including interest through December 31, 2015, imposing withholding tax relating to interest accrued in Denmark on borrowings from certain of the 

44
Company’s subsidiaries for the years 2004-2009. If the SKAT claims are successful, it is likely that the Company would be assessed additional amounts for years 2010-2012 totaling approximately DKK 700 million (approximately $102 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2015). Management believes the positions the Company has taken in Denmark are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and intends to vigorously defend its positions. The Company appealed these assessments with the National Tax Tribunal in 2014 and intends on pursuing this matter through the European Court of Justice should this appeal be unsuccessful. The ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, could take many years, and could result in a material adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its effective tax rate.

As previously disclosed, German tax authorities had raised issues related to the deductibility and taxability of interest accrued by certain of the Company’s subsidiaries. In the fourth quarter of 2014, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with the German tax authorities to resolve these open matters through 2014. The Company recorded €49 million (approximately $60 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2014) of expense for taxes and interest related to this settlement during the fourth quarter of 2014. 

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2016 is expected to be approximately 23% to 24%. This anticipated rate reflects the benefit from the research and experimentation credit in the United States which was permanently extended in 2015.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 

As further discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, discontinued operations includes the results of the Company’s Test & Measurement segment’s communications business (other than the data communications cable installation business and the communication service provider business of Fluke Networks which are now part of the instruments business of the Company’s Test & Measurement segment) which was disposed of during the third quarter of 2015. All periods presented have been restated to reflect the communications business within discontinued operations. 

In 2015, earnings from operations of discontinued business, net of tax, were $759 million and reflected the operating results of the communications business as well as the gain on the sale of the communications business. In 2014 and 2013, earnings from operations of discontinued businesses, net of tax, were $55 million and $104 million, respectively and reflected the operations of the communications business.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Comprehensive income increased by approximately $1.5 billion in 2015 as compared to 2014, primarily due to the impact of increases in net earnings, foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to most major currencies during the year but at a lower rate than in the prior year, and pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments. The Company recorded a foreign currency translation loss of approximately $1.0 billion for 2015 compared to a translation loss of approximately $1.2 billion for 2014. The Company recorded a pension and postretirement plan benefit gain of $81 million for 2015 compared to a loss of $361 million for 2014.

Comprehensive income decreased by approximately $2.0 billion in 2014 as compared to 2013, primarily due to the impact of foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar compared to most major currencies during the year, in addition to the impact from pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments. The Company recorded a foreign currency translation loss of approximately $1.2 billion for 2014 compared to a translation loss of $62 million for 2013. Pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments resulted in a loss of $361 million in 2014 compared to a gain of $289 million in 2013.

INFLATION

The effect of inflation on the Company’s revenues and net earnings was not significant in any of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 or 2013.

45
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risk, equity prices and commodity prices, each of which could impact its financial statements. The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Company’s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating profit as a whole.

Interest Rate Risk

The Company manages interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. A change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt but not the Company’s earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. Generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2015, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt is primarily derived from the value of its underlying common stock) by approximately $445 million.

As of December 31, 2015, the Company’s variable-rate debt obligations consisted primarily of U.S. dollar and Euro-based commercial paper borrowings (refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2015). As a result, the Company’s primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short-term interest rates. As these shorter duration obligations mature, the Company anticipates issuing additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. In 2015, the average annual interest rate associated with outstanding commercial paper borrowings was approximately 20 basis points. A hypothetical increase of this average to 40 basis points would have increased the Company’s interest expense by $7 million. 

Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The Company faces transactional exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Transactional exchange rate risk arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than Danaher’s functional currency or the functional currency of its applicable subsidiary. The Company also faces translational exchange rate risk related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars, Danaher’s functional currency. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Company’s net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income component of stockholders’ equity. A 10% depreciation in major currencies relative to the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2015 would have resulted in a reduction of stockholders’ equity of approximately $1.4 billion.

Currency exchange rates negatively impacted 2015 reported sales by 6.0% on a year-over-year basis as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against most major currencies during 2015 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2014. If the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2015 were to prevail throughout 2016, currency exchange rates would adversely impact 2016 estimated sales by approximately 1.5% relative to the Company’s performance in 2015. Additional strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would further adversely impact the Company’s sales and results of operations on an overall basis. Any weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would positively impact the Company’s sales and results of operations. 

The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will therefore continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

On April 2, 2014, the Company terminated the Japanese Yen/U.S. dollar currency swap agreement that had been acquired in connection with a prior business acquisition. The currency swap agreement initially required the Company to purchase approximately 184 million Japanese Yen (JPY/¥) at a rate of $1/¥102.25 on a monthly basis through June 1, 2018. The currency swap did not qualify for hedge accounting, and as a result, changes in the fair value of the currency swap were reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings each reporting period. The fair value of the currency swap as of the termination date was not significant and the fair value had not 

46
changed significantly during 2014 prior to the swap being terminated. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company recorded pretax income of $14 million related to changes in the fair value of this currency swap. 

Credit Risk

The Company is exposed to potential credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments. Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, receivables from customers and derivatives. The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third party depository institutions that hold its cash and cash equivalents. The Company’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds.

In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of the Company’s customers. The Company’s businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers’ financial conditions as appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when appropriate.

The Company enters into derivative transactions infrequently and, with the exception of the Yen swap noted above, such transactions are generally insignificant to the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. These transactions are entered into only with high-quality financial institutions and exposure at any one institution is limited.

Equity Price Risk

The Company’s available-for-sale investment portfolio includes publicly traded equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the Company’s available-for-sale investments due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the equity securities. A 10% decline in the value of these equity securities as of December 31, 2015 would have reduced the fair value of the Company’s available-for-sale investment portfolio by $34 million.

Commodity Price Risk

For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Management assesses the Company’s liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses, consummating strategic acquisitions, paying interest and servicing debt and managing its capital structure on a short and long-term basis.

47
Following is an overview of the Company’s cash flows and liquidity for the years ended December 31:

Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows.

Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $3.8 billion for 2015, an increase of $210 million, or approximately 6%, as compared to 2014. The year-over-year change in operating cash flows from 2014 to 2015 was primarily attributable to the following factors:

•2015 operating cash flows benefited from higher net earnings as compared to 2014 excluding in both years the impact of gains included in other nonoperating income. These nonoperating gains, which include gains from sales of 

48
investments, product lines and discontinued operations, are reflected in the investing activities section of the Statement of Cash Flows and, therefore, do not contribute to operating cash flows.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $3.6 billion for 2014, an increase of $151 million, or 4% as compared to 2013. This increase was primarily attributable to the increase in operating profit in 2014 as compared to 2013. 

Investing Activities

Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures, including instruments leased to customers, cash used for investments and cash proceeds from divestitures of businesses or assets.

Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $15.0 billion during 2015 compared to approximately $3.4 billion and $553 million of net cash used in 2014 and 2013, respectively.

Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments

2015 Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments

For a discussion of the Company’s 2015 acquisitions, divestitures and the sale of certain marketable equity securities, refer to “—Overview.”

2014 Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments

In December 2014, the Company successfully completed its tender offer for the outstanding shares of common stock of Nobel Biocare and acquired substantially all of the Nobel shares, with the remainder of the Nobel shares acquired in 2015 pursuant to a squeeze-out transaction, for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately CHF 1.9 billion (approximately $1.9 billion based on exchange rates as of the date the shares of common stock were acquired) including debt assumed and net of cash acquired. Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, Nobel Biocare is a world leader in the field of innovative implant-based dental restorations with a portfolio of solutions that include dental implant systems, high-precision individualized prosthetics, biomaterials and digital diagnostics, treatment planning and guided surgery. Nobel Biocare had revenues of €567 million in 2013 (approximately $780 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2013), and is now part of the Company’s Dental segment. The Company financed the acquisition of Nobel Biocare from available cash.

In addition to the acquisition of Nobel Biocare, during 2014 the Company acquired 16 businesses for total consideration of approximately $1.3 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. The businesses acquired complement existing units of the Test & Measurement, Environmental, Life Sciences & Diagnostics and Dental segments. The aggregate annual sales of these 16 businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $420 million.

In August 2014, the Company completed the divestiture of its electric vehicle systems (“EVS”)/hybrid product line for a sale price of $87 million in cash. This product line, which was part of the Industrial Technologies segment, had revenues of approximately $60 million in 2014 prior to the divestiture and approximately $100 million in 2013. Operating results of the product line were not significant to segment or overall Company reported results in 2014. The Company recorded a pretax gain 

49
on the sale of the product line of $34 million ($26 million after-tax or $0.04 per diluted share) in its third quarter 2014 results. Subsequent to the sale, the Company has no continuing involvement in the EVS/hybrid product line. In accordance with ASU No. 2014-08, Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity, which the Company adopted at the beginning of the third quarter of 2014, the divestiture of the EVS/hybrid product line was not classified as a discontinued operation in this Form 10-K since the disposition does not represent a strategic shift that will have a major effect on the Company’s operations and financial statements.

During 2014, the Company received cash proceeds of $167 million from the sale of certain marketable equity securities and recorded a pretax gain related to these sales of $123 million ($77 million after-tax or $0.11 per diluted share).

2013 Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments

During 2013, the Company acquired 12 businesses for total consideration of $883 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The businesses acquired complement existing units of the Industrial Technologies, Life Sciences & Diagnostics, Environmental and Test & Measurement segments. The aggregate annual sales of these 12 businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $300 million. 

During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company sold approximately 5 million of the approximately 8 million shares of Align common stock that the Company received in 2009 as a result of a settlement between Align and Ormco. The Company received cash proceeds of $251 million from the sale of these securities and recorded a pretax gain of $202 million ($125 million after-tax or $0.18 per diluted share).

On July 4, 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper, combining certain of the Company’s hand tool businesses with Cooper’s Tools business to form a new entity, Apex. In February 2013, the Company and Cooper sold Apex to an unrelated third party for approximately $1.6 billion. The Company received $797 million from the sale, consisting of cash of $759 million (including $67 million of dividends received prior to closing) and a note receivable of $38 million (which has been subsequently collected). The Company recognized a pretax gain of $230 million ($144 million after-tax or $0.20 per diluted share) in its first quarter 2013 results in connection with this transaction.

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development, improving information technology systems and the manufacture of instruments that are used in operating-type lease arrangements that certain of the Company’s businesses enter into with customers. Capital expenditures totaled $633 million in 2015, $581 million in 2014 and $538 million in 2013. The increase in capital spending in 2015 is due to continued investments in other operating assets, including operating assets at newly acquired businesses such as Nobel Biocare and Pall, partially offset by year-over-year differences in the timing of investments in equipment leased to customers. The increase in capital spending in 2014 is due primarily to increases in equipment leased to customers. In 2016, the Company expects capital spending (including with respect to the Fortive businesses that the Company anticipates spinning-off in 2016) to be approximately $750 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions.

Financing Activities

Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of cash flows associated with the issuance and repayments of commercial paper and other debt, issuances and repurchases of common stock, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and payments of cash dividends to shareholders. Financing activities provided cash of approximately $9.1 billion during 2015 compared to $218 million of cash used during 2014. Cash provided by financing activities in 2015 primarily relates to the approximately $5.0 billion of proceeds from the sale of U.S. dollar and Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes, $732 million of proceeds from the sale of Swiss franc-denominated senior unsecured bonds and approximately $5.7 billion of proceeds from the sale of U.S. dollar and Euro-denominated commercial paper, in each case related to the financing of the Pall Acquisition. U.S. and Euro-denominated commercial paper outstanding at any one time during the year ended December 31, 2015 had balances ranging from $450 million to approximately $9.8 billion, carried interest at annual rates ranging between -0.03% and 0.5% and had original maturities between one and 182 days.

Total debt was approximately $12.9 billion and $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Company had the ability to incur approximately an additional $2.0 billion of indebtedness in direct borrowings or under our outstanding commercial paper facilities based on the amounts available under the Company’s $6.0 billion of credit facilities which were not being used to backstop outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2015. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s financing activities and indebtedness, including the Company’s 

50
outstanding debt as of December 31, 2015, the financing for the Pall Acquisition and the Company’s commercial paper program and related credit facilities.

Shelf Registration Statement

The Company has filed a “well-known seasoned issuer” shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. The Company utilized this shelf registration statement for the offering and sale of the U.S. dollar and Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes issued to finance the Pall Acquisition. The Company expects to use net proceeds realized by the Company from future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including without limitation repayment or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends and working capital.

Stock Repurchase Program

On July 16, 2013, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a new repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”) authorizing the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Company’s common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date for the Repurchase Program, and the timing and amount of any shares repurchased under the program will be determined by the Company's management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The Repurchase Program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company's equity compensation plans (or any successor plan) and for other corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2015, 20 million shares remained available for repurchase pursuant to the Repurchase Program. The Company expects to fund any future stock repurchases using the Company's available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper.

Except in connection with the disposition of the Company's communications business to NetScout, neither the Company nor any “affiliated purchaser” repurchased any shares of Company common stock during 2015, 2014 or 2013. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the 26 million shares of Danaher common stock tendered to and repurchased by the Company in connection with the disposition of the Company's communications business to NetScout.

Dividends

The Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.135 per share that was paid on January 29, 2016 to holders of record on December 21, 2015. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2015 were $354 million. Dividend payments were higher in 2015 as compared to 2014 as the Company increased its quarterly dividend rate in the first quarter of 2015 to $0.135 per share.

Cash and Cash Requirements

As of December 31, 2015, the Company held approximately $791 million of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment-grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an approximate weighted average annual interest rate of 0.01%. Of this amount, $36 million was held within the United States and $755 million was held outside of the United States. The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions, pay interest and service debt, pay taxes and any related interest or penalties, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock, pay dividends to shareholders and support other business needs. With respect to the Company’s other cash requirements, the Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions, the Company may also borrow under its commercial paper programs or credit facilities, enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under its commercial paper programs and/or access the capital markets. The Company also may from time to time access the capital markets, including to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. 

While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the Company’s foreign cash balances could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. For most of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an election regarding the amount of earnings intended for indefinite reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States. The Company has recorded a deferred tax liability for the funds that are available to be repatriated to the United States. No provisions for U.S. income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, and the amount of U.S. income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ if it repatriated these earnings. The cash that the 

51
Company’s foreign subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations and investments, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2015, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely and the basis difference in investments outside of the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately $23.5 billion. As of December 31, 2015, management believes that it has sufficient liquidity to satisfy its cash needs, including its cash needs in the United States.

During 2015, the Company contributed $49 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and $53 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. During 2016, the Company’s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. and its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans (including any pension plans to be assumed by the Fortive businesses that the Company anticipates spinning-off in 2016) are expected to be approximately $40 million and $55 million, respectively. The ultimate amounts to be contributed depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan’s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors.

Contractual Obligations

The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015 under (1) long-term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long-term liabilities reflected on the Company’s balance sheet under GAAP. The amounts presented in the table below include $971 million of noncurrent gross unrecognized tax benefits. However, the timing of these liabilities is uncertain, and therefore, they have been included in the “More Than 5 Years” column in the table below. Refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits. Certain of the Company’s acquisitions also involve the potential payment of contingent consideration. The table below does not reflect any such obligations, as the timing and amounts of any such payments are uncertain. Refer to “—Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” for a discussion of other contractual obligations that are not reflected in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

52
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off-balance sheet commitments of the Company as of December 31, 2015.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Guarantees consist primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance and bid bonds. These guarantees have been provided in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, financing counterparties and governmental entities to secure the Company’s obligations and/or performance requirements related to specific transactions.

Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company has not included any such items in the contractual obligations table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the potential liabilities from such matters, but the Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that any such liability will have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements. In addition, as a result of these divestitures, as well as restructuring activities, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacate any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub-lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Company’s financial statements.

In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements that require it to indemnify customers, suppliers or other business partners for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising out of the Company’s products or services or claims alleging that Company products, services or software infringe third party intellectual property. The Company has not included any such indemnification provisions in the contractual obligations table above. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification obligations.

The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. Danaher’s Amended and Restated By-laws provide for similar indemnification rights. In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage.

Legal Proceedings

Please refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding legal proceedings and contingencies, and for a discussion of risks related to legal proceedings and contingencies, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates and judgments.

53
The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements. Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period to period. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Acquired Intangibles—The Company’s business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill, in-process research and development and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur. Refer to Notes 1, 2 and 6 in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s policies relating to goodwill, acquired intangibles and acquisitions.

In performing its goodwill impairment testing, the Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market-based approach. The Company estimates fair value based on multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Company’s reporting units, in addition to recent market available sale transactions of comparable businesses. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market-based approach, management makes judgments about the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data as well as judgments about the comparability of the market proxies selected. In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach. The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had 23 reporting units for goodwill impairment testing. Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment. Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth. The carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranges from $7 million to approximately $9.4 billion. The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2015 indicated that in all instances, the fair values of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 0% to approximately 900%. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those hypothetical values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units ranged from approximately -10% to approximately 800%. After applying the hypothetical 10% decrease, two reporting units’ hypothetical fair values were lower than their respective carrying values. Management evaluated other factors relating to the fair value of these reporting units, including as applicable results of the estimate of fair value using an income approach, the short period of time since the acquisition of these businesses, market positions of the businesses, comparability of market sales transactions and financial and operating performance, and concluded no impairment charge was required.

The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. The Company also tests intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for impairment. Determining whether an impairment loss occurred requires a comparison of the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. These analyses require management to make judgments and estimates about future revenues, expenses, market conditions and discount rates related to these assets.

If actual results are not consistent with management’s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements.

Contingent Liabilities—As discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims. In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If the reserves established by 

54
the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements.

Revenue Recognition—The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services. Refer to Note 1 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s revenue recognition policies. 

Although most of the Company’s sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, certain agreements contain multiple elements or non-standard terms and conditions. As a result, judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in these agreements should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and, if so, how the consideration should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize revenue for each element. The Company allocates revenue to each element in the contractual arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy that, in some instances, may require the Company to estimate the selling price of certain deliverables that are not sold separately or where third party evidence of pricing is not observable. The Company’s estimate of selling price impacts the amount and timing of revenue recognized in multiple element arrangements. The Company also enters into lease arrangements with customers, which requires the Company to determine whether the arrangements are operating or sales-type leases. Certain of the Company’s lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the lease accounting criteria.

If the Company’s judgments regarding revenue recognition prove incorrect, the Company’s revenues in particular periods may be adversely affected. 

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits—For a description of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit accounting practices, refer to Notes 10 and 11 in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. If the assumptions used in calculating pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are incorrect or if the factors underlying the assumptions change (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) the Company’s financial statements could be materially affected. A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $147 million ($92 million on an after-tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $157 million ($118 million on an after-tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2015.

For 2015, the estimated long-term rate of return for the U.S. plan is 7.5%, and the Company intends to use an assumption of 7.0% for 2016. Due to this decrease in the estimated long term rate of return on assets, there will be an increase in the expense of approximately $9 million in 2016. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long-term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The U.S. plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments. The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in bond funds. The Company’s non-U.S. plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.10% to 6.00%. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2015 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans for 2015 would have increased $9 million ($6 million on an after-tax basis) and $5 million ($4 million on an after-tax basis), respectively.

Effective December 31, 2015, the Company changed its estimate of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost for its U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Previously, the Company estimated the service and interest cost components utilizing a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation. The new estimate utilizes a full yield curve approach in the estimation of these components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to their underlying projected cash flows. The new estimate provides a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows and their corresponding spot rates. The change does not affect the measurement of the Company’s U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and it is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is inseparable from a change in accounting principle, which is applied prospectively. For fiscal 2016, the change in estimate is expected to reduce U.S. and non-U.S. pension and other postretirement net periodic benefit plan cost by $25 million when compared to the prior estimate.

For a discussion of the Company’s 2015 and anticipated 2016 defined benefit pension plan contributions, please see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash and Cash Requirements”.

55
Income Taxes—For a description of the Company’s income tax accounting policies, refer to Notes 1 and 12 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized which requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies. Future changes to tax rates would also impact the amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. 

The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is “more likely than not” that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination. Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions. The Company re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (1) a tax audit is completed; (2) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (3) the applicable statute of limitations expires.

In addition, certain of the Company’s tax returns are currently under review by tax authorities including in Denmark (see “—Results of Operations – Income Taxes” and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Management believes the positions taken in these returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws. However, the outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in the Company being required to record charges for prior year tax obligations which could have a material adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its effective tax rate.

An increase in the Company’s nominal tax rate of 1.0% would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for continuing operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 of $33 million.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In December 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2015-17, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes (“ASU 2015-17”). ASU 2015-17 simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by requiring that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position. The standard is effective for financial statements issued for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods and may be applied either prospectively to all deferred tax liabilities and assets or retrospectively to all periods presented. The Company has chosen to early adopt this ASU prospectively, and therefore, the 2015 Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects the new disclosure requirements.

In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments (Topic 805), which eliminates the requirement for an acquirer in a business combination to account for measurement-period adjustments retrospectively. The new guidance requires that the cumulative impact of a measurement-period adjustment (including the impact on prior periods) be recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment is identified which eliminates the requirement to restate prior period financial statements. The ASU requires disclosure of the nature and amount of measurement-period adjustments as well as information with respect to the portion of the adjustments recorded in current-period earnings that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustments to provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date. The Company has chosen to early adopt this ASU and therefore, disclosures included within these consolidated financial statements have been updated to reflect the new disclosure requirements.

In May 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-07, Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities that Calculate Net Asset Value Per Share (or its Equivalent) (“ASU 2015-07”). ASU 2015-07 removes the requirement to categorize within the fair value hierarchy investments for which fair values are estimated using the net asset value practical expedient provided by Accounting Standards Codification 820, Fair Value Measurement. Disclosures about investments in certain entities that calculate net asset value per share are limited under the new standard to those investments for which the Plan has elected to estimate the fair value using the net asset value practical expedient. The ASU is effective for entities (other than public business entities) for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, with retrospective application to all periods presented, with early adoption permitted. The Company has chosen to early adopt this ASU and therefore, disclosures included within these consolidated financial statements have been updated to reflect the new disclosure requirements.

In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, Interest - Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs. This ASU requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The ASU is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2015 but the Company has chosen to early adopt the standard and has applied the guidance to all 2015 debt issuances. The Company did not retrospectively apply this guidance to debt offerings prior to 2015 as the impact to the consolidated financial statements was not material.

56
In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which impacts virtually all aspects of an entity’s revenue recognition. The core principle of the new standard is that revenue should be recognized to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. On July 9, 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of the standard by one year which results in the new standard being effective for the Company at the beginning of its first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The Company is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of the new standard will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, including possible transition alternatives.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK