Item 1A – Risk Factors 

We are exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Most are general risks and uncertainties applicable to all retailers, but some are more particular to retailers serving the home improvement industry. Our operations may also be affected by factors that are either not currently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial to our business. We describe below some of the specific known factors that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. All forward-looking statements made by us in this Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K, in our Annual Report to Shareholders and in our subsequently filed quarterly and current reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as in our press releases and other public communications, are qualified by the risks described below. 

Our sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general economy. 

General economic factors and other conditions, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect the U.S. economy, the global economy and our financial performance. These include, but are not limited to, periods of flat economic growth or recession, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability and/or higher cost of credit to Lowe’s and its customers, slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income, higher rates of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and developments in the war against terrorism in Asia, the Middle East and other parts of the world. 

The global recession that began in the U.S. in December 2007 and the slow recovery that (we believe) is currently under way, together with the financial/credit crisis that erupted during the fall of 2008 and led to the collapse, government bailout or acquisition of numerous weakened financial institutions, have had and will continue to have significant adverse effects on our results of operations. Continued high rates of unemployment, the psychological effect of falling home prices, volatility in consumer confidence indices, consumer deleveraging and reduced access to credit have combined to lead to sharply reduced consumer spending, particularly by our customers on many of the discretionary, big-ticket items we sell that tend to be larger home improvement project driven. For these reasons consumer confidence and willingness to spend on discretionary items remain relatively low. And although we expect them to be stronger in 2010 than 2009, our sales and results of operations will continue to be adversely affected throughout the 2010 fiscal year. 

Adverse changes in economic factors specific to the home improvement industry may negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and comparable store sales. 

Sales of many of our product categories and services are driven by housing turnover and activity level of home improvement projects. The expiration of government stimulus programs specific to the housing sector during the second half of fiscal year 2010 may adversely affect the rate of housing turnover. Steep declines over the last three years in home prices, the increasing number of households with negative equity, increasing mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, reduction in the availability of mortgage financing, rising interest rates on variable rate mortgages, and significantly lower housing turnover, have limited and may continue to limit consumers’ discretionary spending, particularly on discretionary items, and affect their confidence level to spend on larger home improvement projects. The impact of these economic factors specific to the home improvement industry is exacerbated by what is expected to be a gradual and prolonged period of economic recovery with slow employment growth. 

Unseasonable weather conditions and adverse weather events can negatively affect our total sales and comparable store sales. 

If weather conditions are uncharacteristic of the time of year during any season, they can hurt our sales by making it difficult to sell seasonal merchandise. Although the impact of unseasonable weather conditions is mitigated somewhat by the broad geographic dispersion of our stores, they continue to be a significant risk to the overall performance of our business, particularly when they occur across a broad region of the U.S. Adverse weather events, such as a prolonged and widespread drought, can hurt our sales of particular products as well. 

Our store expansion and relocation strategy depends upon our ability to successfully open and operate new stores each year. 

Our growth in total sales depends not only on a recovery from the current recessionary period but also to a substantial degree on successfully and cost-effectively implementing our ongoing expansion program. We have scaled back our expansion plans significantly in the last two years and plan to scale them back further during fiscal year 2010 in response to the weak macroeconomic environment. As we expand further, we must adapt our merchandising, marketing and distribution initiatives to new markets both domestically and internationally, as we continue to expand into Canada and Mexico. International expansion presents unique challenges that may increase the anticipated costs and slow the anticipated rate of such expansion. 

We also plan to increase the number of our stores in markets in which we currently operate. Our ability to open additional stores depends, in large measure, upon our ability to locate and acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings in the formats with which we operate may affect our ability to open new stores in some markets. As we develop more new stores in metropolitan markets, we may incur increased costs to remediate environmental pollution on some of the sites we are redeveloping that was caused by previous owners of those sites. Our ability to continue to expand our operations depends also on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. If we are unable to open new stores at the 

9 

rate we currently plan and staff them with qualified employees, the growth in our sales and our competitive position could be adversely affected. 

If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managers, sales associates and other employees we could lose sales to our competitors. 

Customers’ perceptions of the quality of service provided by employees can determine any retailer’s success or failure. If we fail to attract, train and retain qualified managers and sales associates our financial performance could be adversely impacted. Consumers shopping for goods and services for home improvement projects expect to have sales associates serving them who are knowledgeable about product categories located throughout our stores. Excessive turnover, which has historically been high among employees in entry-level or part-time positions, increases the risk that sales associates will not have the training and experience needed to provide competitive, high quality customer service. 

Our success in serving the needs of Commercial Business Customers is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified commercial sales specialists. 

Commercial Business Customers in the home improvement industry require that we have well-trained commercial sales specialists at our project desks. By doing so, we can better serve the needs of this customer on a consistent basis. Our commercial sales specialists have a great depth of knowledge about the products needed by Commercial Business Customers. If we fail to staff our project desks with experienced and knowledgeable employees, we run the risk that we will lose Commercial Business Customers. 

We have many competitors, who, if we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing and distribution strategies effectively, could take sales and market share from us. 

We operate in a highly competitive market for home improvement products and services and have numerous large and small, direct and indirect competitors. The competitive environment in which we operate is particularly challenging during recessionary and economic recovery periods with heavy promotions, particularly of discretionary items, and competitor closings. The principal competitive factors in our industry include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. Our failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could affect our financial performance. Moreover, changes in the promotional pricing and other practices of our competitors, including the effects of competitor liquidation activities, may impact our expected results. 

An unusual number of product liability or breach of warranty claims for defective products could expose us to expensive claims and damage our standing with customers. 

We are exposed to product liability and product warranty claims relating to the products we sell that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because we do not have direct control over the quality of products manufactured or supplied to us by our vendors and because we self-insure for such product liability and warranty claims, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature, as well as mandatory or voluntary recalls of defective products we have sold, could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in the products we stock and in our reputation. 

Our financial performance could suffer if we fail to properly maintain our critical information systems or if those systems are seriously disrupted. 

An important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions, and sales and cash flow growth is the identification and implementation of improvements to our management information systems to improve operations such as inventory replenishment systems, merchandise ordering, transportation, and receipt processing. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our systems. 

Our business and our reputation could be adversely affected by the failure to protect sensitive customer, employee or vendor data or to comply with evolving regulations relating to our obligation to protect such data. 

While we have invested heavily in the protection of our information technology and maintain what we believe are adequate security controls over individually identifiable customer, employee and vendor data provided to us, a breakdown or a breach in our systems that results in the unauthorized release of individually identifiable customer or other sensitive data could nonetheless occur and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition. Such a breakdown or breach could also materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such risks. Also, the regulatory environment relating to our obligation to protect such sensitive data is becoming stricter. A material failure on our part to comply with these evolving regulations could subject us to fines or other regulatory sanctions and potentially to lawsuits. 

If the domestic or international supply chain for our products is disrupted, our sales and gross margin would be adversely impacted. 

We source the approximately 40,000 products we stock and sell from approximately 7,000 domestic and international vendors. We source many of those products directly from foreign manufacturers. Political or financial instability among suppliers, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs are beyond our control and could negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupted the movement of products through our supply chain. The global recession from which we are 

10 

beginning to recover and the credit crisis that began in late 2008 and continues to some extent have adversely affected the operations and financial stability of some of our vendors by reducing their sales and restricting their access to capital. We may have to replace some of our smaller vendors, and some of our vendors may not be able to fulfill their financial obligations to us or to do so in a timely manner. 

Our inability to effectively manage our relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products could negatively impact our ability to differentiate ourselves from competitors. 

Part of our expansion strategy includes continued differentiation from competitors. To better distinguish our product offering, we form strategic relationships with selected suppliers to market and develop products under a variety of recognized and respected brand names. The inability to effectively and efficiently manage the relationships with these suppliers could negatively impact our business plan and financial results. 

 Changes in existing or new laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. 

 Laws and regulations at both the state and federal levels change frequently and can impose significant costs and other burdens of compliance on our business and our merchandise vendors. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new legislation that affects employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs, health care, tax or environmental issues, could have an adverse impact, directly or indirectly, on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Item 1B – Unresolved Staff Comments 

None. 

Item 2 - Properties