Part I 

Item 1 - Business 

General Information 

Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe’s) is a Fortune 50 company and the world’s second largest home improvement retailer. As of January 29, 2010, we operated 1,710 stores, comprised of 1,694 stores across 50 U.S. states and 16 stores in Canada. Our 1,710 stores represent approximately 193 million square feet of retail selling space. 

Lowe’s was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since 1961. The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol “LOW.” 

See Item 6, “Selected Financial Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for historical revenues, profits and identifiable assets. For additional information about the Company’s performance and financial condition, see also Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 

Customers, Market and Competition 

Our Customers 

We serve homeowners, renters and Commercial Business Customers. Homeowners and renters primarily consist of do-it-yourself (DIY) customers and do-it-for-me (DIFM) customers who utilize our installed sales programs, as well as others buying for personal and family use. Commercial Business Customers include those who work in the construction, repair/remodel, commercial and residential property management, or business maintenance professions. 

Our Market 

Using the most recent comprehensive data available, which is from 2008, we estimate the size of the U.S. home improvement market to be approximately $630 billion annually, comprised of $492 billion of product demand and $138 billion of installed labor opportunity. Data from a variety of primary and secondary sources, including trade associations, government publications, industry participants and other sources was analyzed as the basis for our estimate. This data captures a wide range of categories relevant to our business, including major appliances and garden supplies. Based on the most recently available data, we believe that the size of the U.S. home improvement market decreased approximately 11% in 2009. 

There are many variables that impact consumer demand for the products and services we offer. Key indicators we monitor include employment, real disposable personal income, housing turnover, and home ownership levels. We also monitor demographic and societal trends that are indicators of home improvement industry growth.  

  §   Employment is an indicator of home improvement sales. The forecasted average unemployment rate of 10.0% for 2010 from the February 2010 Blue Chip Economic Indicators™ is higher than the 9.3% average seen in 2009 and suggests that Americans will continue to face challenging employment prospects this year.    

  §   Although real disposable personal income continues to grow, it is projected to grow at a slower pace for 2010 than the long-term average annual increase of 3.4%, during the period from 1960 to 2009. Real disposable personal income growth is forecasted to be 2.1% for calendar 2010, compared with 1.3% for calendar 2009, based on data from the February 2010 Blue Chip Economic Indicators™.    

  §   Housing turnover, which peaked in calendar year 2005, remains significantly below peak levels according to The National Association of Realtors®. However, recent data suggests that housing turnover in 2010 will increase over 2009.    

  §   According to the U.S. Census Bureau, while U.S. home ownership levels over the past year have continued their decline from 2007, they remain above their historical average. Home ownership provides an established customer base for home maintenance and repair projects. The vast majority of our customers are homeowners and most are not willing to let what is often their most valuable financial asset deteriorate.    

Currently, all of these indicators suggest continued weakness in consumer demand. In this challenging economic environment, we are balancing implementation of our long-term growth plans with our near-term focus on conserving capital and maintaining liquidity. 

4 

Our Competition 

The home improvement retailing business includes many competitors. We compete with other chains of home improvement warehouse stores and lumberyards in most of our trade areas. We also compete with traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply retailers. In addition, we compete, with respect to some of our products, with general merchandise retailers, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, and online retailers. The principal competitive factors in our industry include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock levels, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. See further discussion of competition in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Risk Factors.” 

Products and Services 

Our Products 

Product Selection 

To meet customers’ varying home improvement needs, we offer a complete line of products for home decorating, maintenance, repair, remodeling, and property maintenance. We offer home improvement products in the following categories: appliances, paint, lumber, flooring, building materials, millwork, lawn & landscape products, hardware, fashion plumbing, tools, lighting, seasonal living, rough plumbing, nursery, outdoor power equipment, cabinets & countertops, rough electrical, home environment, home organization, and windows & walls. A typical Lowe's store stocks approximately 40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available through our Special Order Sales system and Lowes.com. Our Special Order Sales product offerings provide our customers the opportunity to select a wider assortment of product options beyond the items we carry in our stores through electronic product catalogs and Lowes.com. We continue to enhance integrated design tools and ordering systems storewide in order for customers to envision projects, as well as to efficiently receive price quotes and complete an order. See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years. 

We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand name merchandise, as well as building long-term value for Lowe’s through the development of proprietary brands. 

National Brand Name Merchandise 

In many product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill confidence in their purchase. Each Lowe’s store carries a wide selection of national brand name merchandise such as Whirlpool®, Stainmaster®, Valspar®, Pella® and many more. Our merchandise selection provides the DIY, DIFM and Commercial Business Customer a one-stop shop for a wide variety of national brand name merchandise needed to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance or construction projects. 

Proprietary Brands 

We also sell many brands that are exclusive to Lowe’s to further differentiate our product offerings from our competitors’. These unique brands cover several categories, including lighting, flooring and tools, and give our customers great quality and value. Examples of brand names exclusive to Lowe’s are Aquasource®, Garden Treasures®, Harbor Breeze®, Kobalt®, Portfolio®, Reliabilt®, Top-Choice®, and Utilitech®. 

Product Sourcing 

We source our products from over 7,000 merchandise vendors worldwide, with no single vendor accounting for more than 7% of total purchases. We believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products. Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for our customers and gross margin improvement for Lowe’s. 

Supply Chain 

To efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate 14 highly-automated regional distribution centers (RDCs). On average, each RDC serves 121 stores. In addition, we utilize a third-party distribution facility to serve our Canadian stores. We also operate 15 flatbed distribution centers (FDCs) to distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, irrigation pipe, vinyl sidings, ladders and building materials. Additionally, we operate three facilities to support our import business, Special Order Sales and internet fulfillment. We also utilize three third-party transload facilities. These facilities do not hold inventory, but are the first point of receipt for imported products. The transload facilities sort and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and forecasts. 

On average in fiscal 2009, over 74% of the total dollar amount of stock merchandise we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to stores from our vendors. 

5 

Our Service Offerings 

Installed Sales 

We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with flooring, millwork and cabinets & countertops generating the highest sales. Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to maintain their focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products sold are efficiently executed. Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 6% of total sales in fiscal 2009. 

Commercial Business Customers 

We strive to be a valued business partner to Commercial Business Customers. Because we understand the challenges they face in the current economic environment and the importance of timeliness to these customers, we continue to evaluate and tailor our support program to best meet their needs. These programs focus on in-stock and special order merchandise, contractor packs, business credit, and other convenience services such as fast ordering and 7-day delivery. We also offer a Quote Support Program which provides quotes to Commercial Business Customers for larger projects and helps to ensure our pricing on these projects is competitive. In addition, we offer a district commercial account specialist program in many of our markets which expands our close-support program for Commercial Business Customers. We also have a dedicated web site for these customers, LowesForPros.com, that makes it easier for them to use the programs we have designed specifically for them. 

Credit Financing 

We offer a proprietary credit card for retail customers. In addition, we offer a Lowe’s Project Card in all stores. The Lowe’s Project Card provides a major project, in-store financing solution to complement our Lowe’s Consumer Revolving Credit Card. 

We also offer proprietary credit programs for Commercial Business Customers. They include a Lowe’s Business Account, which is ideal for small- to medium-size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe’s Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium- to large-size businesses that pay in full each month. We also offer the Lowe’s Business Rewards Card from American Express®, which is a business credit card with a rewards program that enables business owners to earn points on virtually all card purchases. 

In addition, we accept Visa®, MasterCard®, Discover® and American Express® credit cards, as well as debit cards from all major networks. 

For additional information regarding our credit programs, see the summary of our significant accounting policies in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Distribution Channels 

Stores 

Our 1,710 retail home improvement stores are open seven days per week, 363 days per year, and average approximately 113,000 square feet of retail selling space, which includes approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling space. Our stores offer similar products and services, with certain minor variations based on local market factors. 

Lowes.com 

Lowes.com seeks to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience and helping reduce the complexity of product decisions and home improvement projects by providing online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online buying guides and how-to videos and information. These tools help consumers make smarter, more informed purchasing decisions and give consumers confidence as they undertake simple to more complex home improvement projects. We also enable consumers to choose from a variety of multichannel fulfillment options, including buy online and pick-up in-store as well as direct shipment to customers’ homes. As our business evolves, we continue to look for opportunities beyond fulfillment to leverage emerging technologies and online trends to build strong relationships with consumers that will make us the first choice for their home improvement needs. Lowes.com sales accounted for less than 1% of total sales in fiscal 2009. 

6 

New Store Expansion 

We opened 62 new stores in fiscal 2009, including five Canadian stores. Our 2009 store openings included three primary prototypes: 117,000-square-foot (117K) and 103,000-square-foot (103K) stores for large markets and a 94,000-square-foot (94K) store to serve smaller markets. The following table illustrates our store expansion over the last three years:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We expect to open 40 to 45 new stores in fiscal 2010. That estimate includes continued expansion of our store base in Canada, including our first stores in Western Canada, as well as our first stores in Monterrey, Mexico. Our fiscal 2010 store openings will be comprised primarily of 117K, 103K and 94K stores. As we continue our expansion and strive to maximize our return on investment, we consider market demographics and land availability, among other factors, to determine the appropriate prototype for a particular market. The reduction in store openings in 2010 as compared to 2009 reflects the continued challenging current economic environment. 

Employees 

As of January 29, 2010, we employed approximately 166,000 full-time and 73,000 part-time employees, none of which in the U.S. or Canada are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with its employees to be good. 

Seasonality and Working Capital 

The retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business is to some extent seasonal. Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our fiscal second quarter (May, June and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fiscal fourth quarter (November, December and January). Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fiscal fourth quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fiscal fourth quarter sales volumes. We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, if needed. For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 

Intellectual Property 

The name “Lowe’s” is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary has various additional registered trademarks, trade names and service marks, most of which are used in our proprietary brand program. Examples of brand names exclusive to Lowe’s are Aquasource®, Garden Treasures®, Harbor Breeze®, Kobalt®, Portfolio®, Reliabilt®, Top-Choice®, and Utilitech®. 

Environmental Leadership 

We continue to build on a history of environmental leadership by helping consumers reduce their energy and water use and their environmental footprint while saving money through a growing number of product and service solutions. We offer a wide selection of environmentally responsible and energy-efficient products for the home, from ENERGY STAR® appliances to low VOC paint.  

7 

Some highlights of our environmental leadership include: 

§    The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency awarded us the 2010 ENERGY STAR® Sustained Excellence Award in Retail, which recognizes our long-standing leadership as a retailer of energy-efficient products, as well as eight consecutive ENERGY STAR® awards (2003-2010), including four ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year awards for educating consumers about the benefits of energy efficiency.    

§    We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent not-for-profit organization holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world.     

§    We provide in-store recycling for plastic bags, CFLs and rechargeable batteries.    

§     We were recognized as a Top 10 retailer participating in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Green Power Partnership program.     

In addition to operating our stores as efficiently as possible by reducing our energy and water usage, we are striving to get products to our stores in an environmentally responsible manner. Our conservation strategies and continued contributions to the transportation industry have been honored by multiple SmartWay Environmental Excellence Awards, an innovative program launched by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 2004 that represents environmentally cleaner, more fuel efficient transportation options. To earn those awards, we implemented initiatives that resulted in reduced carbon dioxide emissions and less overall highway congestion. These included increasing shipping by rail, increasing efficiency of truckload shipments, allowing more products to be shipped on fewer trailers, and continuing to use a higher percentage of SmartWay carriers. 

Compliance with Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. They have in the past and may in the future increase our costs of doing business in a variety of ways, including indirectly through increased energy and product costs as producers of energy, cement, iron, steel, pulp, paper, petroleum and other major emitters of greenhouse gases are subjected to increased or new regulation or legislation that results in greater regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2010 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with such laws or regulations. 

Reaching Out 

We believe community involvement extends beyond the boundaries of our stores. In 2009, Lowe's and Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF) contributed more than $30 million to schools and community organizations in the United States and Canada. LCEF was created in 1957 to assist communities through financial contributions while also encouraging employees to become involved through volunteerism. In 2009, LCEF supported more than 2,300 community and education projects. The Foundation funds our signature grant program, Lowe’s Toolbox for Education®, and partnerships with organizations including SkillsUSA®, Rebuilding Together®, the Home Safety Council and The Nature Conservancy. Since 2003, Lowe’s has worked with Habitat for Humanity® International to combat substandard housing. Our commitment through 2013 will bring Lowe's Habitat contributions to nearly $40 million since the partnership began. We also partner with customers to support the American Red Cross and the Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA), contributing more than $9 million to MDA since 2001 and nearly $21 million to the American Red Cross since 1999. Lowe’s also encourages employee volunteerism through the Lowe’s Heroes program, a company-wide initiative. For more information on our community involvement, please see the Lowe’s Social Responsibility Report at www.Lowes.com/socialresponsibility. 

Available Information 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our internet website at www.Lowes.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may also read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

8 

Item 1A – Risk Factors