PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Kimberly-Clark Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1928. We are a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life through product innovation and building our personal care, consumer tissue and K-C Professional brands. We are principally engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of a wide range of products mostly made from natural or synthetic fibers using advanced technologies in fibers, nonwovens and absorbency. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms "Corporation," "Kimberly-Clark," "K-C," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Kimberly-Clark Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

For financial information by business segment and geographic area, including revenue, profit and total assets of each reportable segment, and information about our principal products and markets, see Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") and Item 8, Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted. 

Recent Developments 

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”). The Tax Act made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code which impacted 2017, including, but not limited to, reducing the U.S. federal corporate tax rate and requiring a one-time transition tax on certain undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. See additional information in MD&A and Item 8, Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.

On January 23, 2018, we announced a new global restructuring program. The 2018 Global Restructuring Program will reduce our structural cost base by streamlining and simplifying our manufacturing supply chain and overhead organization. The restructuring is expected to be completed by the end of 2020, with total costs anticipated to be $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion pre-tax ($1.35 billion to $1.5 billion after tax). Cash costs are expected to be $900 to $1.0 billion. In addition, we expect to incur $600 to $700 of incremental capital spending to implement the restructuring. Workforce reductions are expected to be in the range of 5,000 to 5,500. The restructuring is expected to impact all of our business segments and our organizations in all major geographies. The restructuring is expected to generate annual pre-tax cost savings of $500 to $550 by the end of 2021. See additional information in MD&A and Item 8, Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements.

Description of Kimberly-Clark

We are organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into three reportable global business segments as follows: 

•Personal Care brands offer our consumers a trusted partner in caring for themselves and their families by delivering confidence, protection and discretion through a wide variety of innovative solutions and products such as disposable diapers, training and youth pants, swimpants, baby wipes, feminine and incontinence care products, and other related products. Products in this segment are sold under the Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, DryNites, Kotex, U by Kotex, Intimus, Depend, Plenitud, Poise and other brand names.

•Consumer Tissue offers a wide variety of innovative solutions and trusted brands that touch and improve people's lives every day. Products in this segment include facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins and related products, and are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Viva, Andrex, Scottex, Neve and other brand names.

•K-C Professional ("KCP") partners with businesses to create Exceptional Workplaces, helping to make them healthier, safer and more productive through a range of solutions and supporting products such as wipers, tissue, towels, apparel, soaps and sanitizers. Our brands, including Kleenex, Scott, WypAll, Kimtech and Jackson Safety, are well-known for quality and trusted to help people around the world work better.

These reportable segments were determined in accordance with how our chief operating decision maker and our executive managers develop and execute our global strategies to drive growth and profitability of our personal care, consumer tissue and KCP operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and development programs, cost reductions including supply chain management and capacity, and capital investments for each of these businesses. 

Products for household use are sold directly to supermarkets, mass merchandisers, drugstores, warehouse clubs, variety and department stores and other retail outlets, as well as through other distributors and e-commerce. Products for away-from-home 

  1KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2017 Annual Report

use are sold through distributors and directly to manufacturing, lodging, office building, food service, and high volume public facilities.

Net sales to Walmart Inc. as a percent of our consolidated net sales were approximately 14 percent in 2017, 2016 and 2015. 

Patents and Trademarks

We own various patents and trademarks registered domestically and in many foreign countries. We consider the patents and trademarks that we own and the trademarks under which we sell certain of our products to be material to our business. Consequently, we seek patent and trademark protection by all available means, including registration.

Raw Materials

Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or fiber recycled from recovered waste paper, is the primary raw material for our tissue products, and in the form of fluff pulp is a component of disposable diapers, training and youth pants, feminine pads and incontinence care products.

Polypropylene and other synthetics and chemicals are the primary raw materials for manufacturing nonwoven fabrics, which are used in disposable diapers, training and youth pants, wet wipes, feminine pads, incontinence care products, and away-from-home wipers and apparel. Superabsorbent materials are important components of disposable diapers, training and youth pants and incontinence care products. 

Raw materials are purchased from third parties, and we consider the supply to be adequate to meet the needs of our businesses. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors."

Competition

We have several major competitors in most of our markets, some of which are larger and more diversified than us. The principal methods and elements of competition include brand recognition and loyalty, product innovation, quality and performance, price, and marketing and distribution capabilities. For additional discussion of the competitive environment in which we conduct our business, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors."

Research and Development

Research and development expenditures are directed toward new or improved personal care, tissue, wiping, safety and nonwoven materials. Consolidated research and development expense was $311 in 2017, $328 in 2016 and $324 in 2015.

Foreign Market Risks

We operate and market our products globally, and our business strategy includes targeted growth in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with a particular emphasis in China, Eastern Europe and Latin America. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for a discussion of foreign market risks that may affect our financial results.

Environmental Matters

Total capital expenditures for voluntary environmental controls or controls necessary to comply with legal requirements relating to the protection of the environment at our facilities are expected to be $30 and $12 in 2018 and 2019, respectively. Total operating expenses for environmental compliance, including pollution control equipment operation and maintenance costs, governmental fees, and research and engineering costs are expected to be $112 and $118 in 2018 and 2019, respectively.

Total environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. Current environmental spending estimates could be modified as a result of changes in our plans, changes in legal requirements, including any requirements related to global climate change, or other factors.

Employees

In our consolidated operations, we had approximately 42,000 employees as of December 31, 2017.

  2KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2017 Annual Report

Available Information

We make financial information, news releases and other information available on our corporate website at www.kimberly-clark.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on this website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the SEC. Stockholders may also contact Stockholder Services, P.O. Box 612606, Dallas, Texas 75261-2606 or call 972-281-5317 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS