PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that are not historical in nature should be deemed forward-looking statements that are inherently uncertain. See “Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 for a discussion of forward-looking statements and factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those projected.

As used in this annual report on Form 10-K, the terms “Tesoro,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” may refer to Tesoro Corporation, one or more of its consolidated subsidiaries or all of them taken as a whole. The words “we,” “us” or “our” generally include Tesoro Logistics LP (“TLLP”), a publicly traded limited partnership, and its subsidiaries as consolidated subsidiaries of Tesoro Corporation with certain exceptions where there are transactions or obligations between TLLP and Tesoro Corporation or its other subsidiaries. When used in descriptions of agreements and transactions, “TLLP” or the “Partnership” refers to TLLP and its consolidated subsidiaries, including its 58% interest in QEP Midstream Partners, LP (“QEPM”), a publicly traded limited partnership, and its subsidiaries. Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC, Tesoro’s 100% consolidated indirect subsidiary, serves as the general partner of TLLP. 

Tesoro was incorporated in Delaware in 1968. Based in San Antonio, Texas, we are one of the largest independent petroleum refining and marketing companies in the United States. Our subsidiaries, operating through three business segments, primarily transport crude oil and manufacture, transport and sell transportation fuels. Our refining operating segment (“Refining”), which owns and operates six refineries in the western United States, refines crude oil and other feedstocks into transportation fuels, such as gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel and diesel fuel, as well as other products, including heavy fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas and petroleum coke for sale in wholesale and bulk markets to a wide variety of customers within our markets. TLLP’s assets and operations include certain crude oil and natural gas gathering assets, natural gas and natural gas liquid (“NGL”) processing assets, and crude oil and refined products terminalling, transportation and storage assets acquired from Tesoro and third parties. The TLLP financial and operational data presented include the historical results of all assets acquired from Tesoro prior to the acquisition dates. The historical results of operations of these assets have been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the current presentation. Our retail operating segment (“Retail”) sells transportation fuels in 16 states through a network of 2,267 retail stations, under the ARCO®, Shell®, Exxon®, Mobil®, USA GasolineTM and Tesoro® brands. See Notes 17 and 21 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our operating segments and properties. 

Our principal executive offices are located at 19100 Ridgewood Parkway, San Antonio, Texas 78259-1828 and our telephone number is (210) 626-6000. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TSO. We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other reports from time to time. The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our SEC filings are also available to the public on the SEC’s Internet site at http://www.sec.gov and our website at http://www.tsocorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may receive a copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements, free of charge by writing to Tesoro Corporation, Attention: Investor Relations, 19100 Ridgewood Parkway, San Antonio, Texas 78259-1828. We also post our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct, code of business conduct and ethics for senior financial executives and our Board of Director committee charters on our website. 

 3
REFINING

Tesoro Refinery Locations

Overview

We currently own and operate six petroleum refineries with a combined crude oil capacity of 850 thousand barrels per day (“Mbpd”) located in the western United States and sell transportation fuels to a wide variety of customers. Our refineries produce the majority of the transportation fuels that we sell. Crude oil capacity and actual throughput by refinery are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)Crude oil capacity by refinery as reported by the U.S. Energy Information Agency (June 2014). Throughput can exceed crude oil capacity due to the processing of other feedstocks in addition to crude oil.

(b)During 2013, we acquired BP’s integrated Southern California refining, marketing and logistics business (the “Los Angeles Acquisition”), which included the 266 Mbpd Carson refinery. We continue integrating the operations of our Wilmington and Carson refineries and refer to the combined facility as the Los Angeles refinery. The 2013 throughput includes processing at the Carson refinery beginning on June 1, 2013, the date of acquisition.

(c)See discussion regarding changes in total refining throughput in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 4
Feedstock Purchases. We purchase crude oil and other feedstocks from domestic and foreign sources either through term agreements with renewal provisions and volume commitments or in the spot market. We purchase domestic crude oil produced primarily in North Dakota, Alaska, California, Utah and Wyoming. We purchase foreign crude oil produced in the South America, Middle East, Canada, western Africa and other locations. Sources of our crude oil purchases based on volumes purchased were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our refineries process both heavy and light crude oil. Light crude oil, when refined, produces a greater proportion of higher value transportation fuels such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, and as a result is typically more expensive than heavy crude oil. In contrast, heavy crude oil produces more low value by-products and heavy residual oils. These lower value products can be upgraded to higher value products through additional, more complex and expensive refining processes. Throughput volumes by feedstock type and region are summarized below (in Mbpd):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a)We define heavy crude oil as crude oil with an American Petroleum Institute gravity of 24 degrees or less.

 5
Refined Products. The total products produced in the refining and manufacturing processes are referred to as the refining yield. The refining yield consists primarily of transportation fuels, including gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel and diesel fuel, but may also include other products such as heavy fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas, petroleum coke, calcined coke and asphalt. Our refining yield by region is summarized below (in Mbpd):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________________

(a)The majority of internally produced fuel is consumed during the refining process.

Marine. We charter tankers to optimize the transportation of crude oil and refined products within our refinery system and ensure adequate shipping capacity. Our current U.S.-flag and foreign-flag tanker time charters will expire between 2015 and 2019 unless we exercise renewal options. We also time charter barge and tug units and assist tugs with varying terms ending in 2015 through 2018, some of these barges have renewal options. All of our chartered tankers and barges are double-hulled.

Rail. We maintain a fleet of leased rail cars which we use to transport cost advantaged crude oil to our refineries located on the West Coast. We believe our fleet is fully compliant with government regulations. We expect that new federal regulations covering rail car design will be made final in 2015.

 6
California Refineries

Los Angeles

Refining. Our 363 Mbpd Los Angeles refinery is located in the Carson-Wilmington area of California on approximately 930 acres about 20 miles south of Los Angeles. We sourced crude oil for our Los Angeles refinery from California, Alaska and foreign locations in 2014. The Los Angeles refinery also processes intermediate feedstocks. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, vacuum distillation, delayed coking, hydrocracking, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating, fluid catalytic cracking, butane isomerization and alkylation. The refinery produces a high proportion of transportation fuels, including California Air Resources Board (“CARB”) gasoline and CARB diesel fuel, as well as conventional gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel. The refinery also produces heavy fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas, petroleum coke, calcined coke and electricity.

We have realized and expect to continue realizing significant operational synergies from the Los Angeles Acquisition through the diversification of crude oil supply, continued optimization of intermediate feedstocks and product distribution costs, improvements in light product yields and reductions in manufacturing costs and stationary source air emissions.

Transportation. We receive crude oil and other feedstocks and ship refined products through the Long Beach marine terminals operated by TLLP, which are located on land leased by us or owned by TLLP. Our Los Angeles refinery can also receive crude oil from the San Joaquin Valley and the Los Angeles Basin via pipeline.

We distribute refined products through TLLP and third-party terminals and pipelines in our market areas and through purchases and exchange arrangements with other refining and marketing companies. We store our refined products at TLLP and third-party terminals in Southern California, the majority of which have marine access. 

Martinez

Refining. Our 166 Mbpd Martinez refinery is located in Martinez, California on approximately 2,200 acres about 30 miles east of San Francisco. We sourced crude oil for our Martinez refinery from California, South America and other foreign and domestic locations in 2014. We also supplied the refinery with Bakken crude oil and intermediate feedstocks. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, vacuum distillation, delayed coking, hydrocracking, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating, fluid catalytic cracking and alkylation units. The refinery produces a high proportion of transportation fuels, including CARB gasoline and CARB diesel fuel, as well as conventional gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel. The refinery also produces liquefied petroleum gas and petroleum coke.

Transportation. We receive crude oil by rail and through a marine terminal owned by TLLP, which is located on land leased by us near our Martinez refinery. We lease additional land for a second marine terminal owned by us, which includes a dock and related pipelines and receives refined products from the refinery through interconnecting pipelines for delivery to marine vessels. These facilities provide access through the San Francisco Bay, enabling us to ship and receive refined products and receive crude oil. In addition, we receive California crude oil via third-party pipelines. Liquefied petroleum gases are transported via truck or rail. The refinery can also store, receive or ship crude oil and refined products through a nearby third-party marine terminal.

We distribute refined products through a TLLP truck terminal, which includes a truck loading rack with three loading bays that allows us to receive refined products through interconnecting pipelines from the refinery and distribute refined products blended with renewable fuels via trucks. We also distribute through third-party terminals in our market areas and purchase and exchange arrangements with other refining and marketing companies. 

Pacific Northwest Refineries

Washington

Refining. Our 120 Mbpd Anacortes, Washington refinery is located in northwest Washington on approximately 950 acres about 70 miles north of Seattle. We supplied the Washington refinery with significant amounts of Bakken and Canadian crude oil, with the balance sourced from Alaska and non-Canadian foreign locations during 2014. We also supplied the refinery with intermediate feedstocks produced by some of our other refineries or purchased in the spot market. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, vacuum distillation, deasphalting, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating, fluid catalytic cracking, butane isomerization and alkylation units, which enable us to produce a high proportion of transportation fuels such as conventional gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel. The refinery also produces heavy fuel oils and liquefied petroleum gas.

 7
Transportation. Our Washington refinery receives Canadian crude oil through a third-party pipeline originating in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Bakken crude oil is received through TLLP’s crude oil rail car unloading facility, currently permitted to receive up to 50 Mbpd, located adjacent to the refinery. We also receive crude oil and other feedstocks through our Washington refinery’s crude oil and refined products marine terminal, which includes four TLLP-owned storage tanks for crude and heavy products. A truck loading rack and a liquefied petroleum gas rail car rack located at the refinery are also owned by TLLP, and are used to distribute propane, butanes and diesel fuel.

The refinery ships gasoline, jet fuel and diesel fuel through a third-party pipeline system, which serves western Washington and Oregon. We also deliver refined products through our marine terminal via ships and barges to West Coast, Mexico, Central America and other Pacific Rim markets. We also distribute refined products through TLLP and third-party terminals in our market areas, and purchase and exchange arrangements with other refining and marketing companies. 

Alaska

Refining. Our 72 Mbpd Alaska refinery is located on the Cook Inlet near Kenai on approximately 450 acres about 60 miles southwest of Anchorage. We primarily sourced crude oil for our Alaska refinery in 2014 from Alaska, supplemented by Bakken crude oil, foreign crude oil and intermediate feedstocks. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, vacuum distillation, distillate hydrocracking, hydrotreating, naphtha reforming, diesel desulfurizing and light naphtha isomerization units, which produce transportation fuels, including gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel and diesel fuel, as well as other products, including heating oil, heavy fuel oils, liquefied petroleum gas and asphalt.

Transportation. Our Kenai marine terminal includes a single-berth dock and storage facility with five crude oil storage tanks. We receive crude oil by tanker, truck, a third-party pipeline and through our owned and operated crude oil pipeline. We operate a 4-mile crude oil pipeline from the Middle Ground Shoals on the east side of Cook Inlet. TLLP owns and operates a common-carrier refined products pipeline that runs from the Alaska refinery to TLLP and third-party terminal facilities in Anchorage and to the Anchorage International Airport. This 69-mile pipeline has the capacity to transport approximately 48 Mbpd of refined products and allows us to transport gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel. Both pipelines are regulated by various state and local agencies. We also deliver refined products through our Kenai marine terminal and from the Port of Anchorage marine facility to customers via ships and barges.

TLLP operates a refined products terminal at Nikiski, which includes a truck loading rack with two loading bays and six above-ground refined products storage tanks, and is supplied by our Alaska refinery. Additionally, our Alaska refinery supplies fuels to TLLP’s Anchorage terminal.

Mid-Continent Refineries

North Dakota

Refining. Our 71 Mbpd North Dakota refinery is located on the Missouri River near Mandan on approximately 950 acres. We supply our North Dakota refinery primarily with Bakken crude oil. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating and alkylation units, which produce transportation fuels, including gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel, as well as other products, including heavy fuel oils and liquefied petroleum gas.

Transportation.  Our North Dakota refinery’s crude oil supply is gathered and transported to us by TLLP’s crude oil gathering system (the “High Plains System”). This system includes both pipeline and truck gathering operations. 

We distribute a significant portion of our refinery’s production through a third-party refined products pipeline system, which serves various areas from Mandan, North Dakota to Minneapolis, Minnesota. Most of the gasoline and distillate products from our refinery can be shipped through that pipeline system to third-party terminals. We also distribute our refined products through TLLP’s terminal at our North Dakota refinery and other third-party terminals in our market area.

 8
Utah

Refining. Our 58 Mbpd Utah refinery is located in Salt Lake City on approximately 150 acres. We primarily sourced our crude oil for our Utah refinery from Wyoming, Utah and Colorado in 2014. We also supplied the refinery with intermediate feedstocks produced by some of our other refineries or purchased in the spot market. The refinery’s major processing units include crude distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating and alkylation units, which produce transportation fuels, including gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel, as well as other products, including heavy fuel oils and liquefied petroleum gas. We are making capital improvements to the Utah refinery designed to improve yields of gasoline and diesel fuel, improve the flexibility of processing crude feedstocks, and increase throughput capacity by 4 Mbpd. The first phase of this project was completed in 2013, which increased our capacity to process local waxy crude oil to approximately 19 Mbpd, and the second phase is expected to be completed in the first half of 2015.

Transportation. Our Utah refinery receives crude oil from third-party pipelines from oil fields in Wyoming, Utah, and Colorado. We use trucks to supply the remainder of our Utah refinery’s crude oil requirements. We distribute the refinery’s production through a system of terminals and pipelines owned and operated by TLLP, primarily in Utah, Idaho and eastern Washington. We also distribute refined products to Las Vegas, Nevada on a third-party pipeline.

Tesoro Panama Company S.A

Tesoro Panama Company S.A. (“TPSA”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Tesoro, has leased access to the Trans-Panama pipeline (the “Panama Pipeline”) and several tanks for a seven-year period expiring in 2017. TPSA is obligated for pipeline capacity of more than 100 Mbpd and tank storage with a shell operating capacity of approximately 3.8 million barrels. The Panama Pipeline runs 81 miles long across Panama and has a capacity exceeding 860 Mbpd. This access to the Panama Pipeline allows us to deliver crude oil acquired in Africa and the Atlantic region of South America to refineries on the West Coast. TPSA also transports crude oil across the Panama Pipeline for third parties. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, TPSA held title to 5.4 million and 4.4 million barrels of crude oil, respectively, in transit or in Panama for delivery to our refineries on the West Coast or to third parties. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, TPSA transported 88 Mbpd, 65 Mbpd, and 31 Mbpd, respectively.

Wholesale Marketing and Refined Product Distribution

Our retail network provides a committed outlet for the majority of the gasoline produced by our refineries; however, we also sell gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel, diesel fuel, heavy fuel oils and residual products in both the bulk and wholesale markets in the western United States. We also export gasoline and diesel fuel to certain foreign markets. We currently sell over 350 Mbpd in the wholesale market primarily through independent unbranded distributors that sell refined products purchased from us through approximately 80 owned, TLLP and third-party terminals. Our bulk sales are primarily to independent unbranded distributors, other refining and marketing companies, utilities, railroads, airlines and marine and industrial end-users. These products are primarily distributed by TLLP and third-party pipelines, ships, barges, rail cars and trucks. Our sales include refined products that we manufacture, purchase or receive through exchange arrangements. Our refined product sales, including intersegment sales to our retail operations, were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gasoline and Gasoline Blendstocks. We sell the majority of our gasoline through our retail network, but we also sell in both the bulk and wholesale markets in the western United States and to certain foreign markets. The demand for gasoline is seasonal in many of these markets, with lowest demand typically during the winter months. We sell gasoline to wholesale customers and several other refining and marketing companies under various supply agreements and exchange arrangements. We also sell wholesale, to unbranded distributors and high-volume retailers.

 9
Jet Fuel. We supply jet fuel to passenger and cargo airlines and to resellers at airports and truck rack locations in Alaska, California, Washington, Utah, Oregon and other western states. We also supply military grade jet fuel to locations in the northern Great Plains. Most term contract commitments are supplied via pipeline into airport storage and via truck from various product storage terminals.

Diesel Fuel. We sell diesel fuel primarily on a wholesale basis for marine, transportation, industrial and agricultural use. We also export diesel fuel and sell lesser amounts to end-users through marine terminals and for power generation in Washington. We are able to manufacture Ultra-Low Sulfur Diesel (“ULSD”) at all of our refineries. 

Heavy Fuel Oils and Residual Products. We sell heavy fuel oils to other refiners, third-party resellers, electric power producers and marine and industrial end-users. Our refineries supply substantially all of the marine fuels that we sell through facilities at Port Angeles, Seattle and Tacoma, Washington, and Portland, Oregon, and through our refinery terminals in Washington and Alaska. Our Martinez and Los Angeles refineries produce petroleum coke that we sell primarily to industrial end-users. We are also a supplier of liquid asphalt for paving and construction companies in Alaska.

Sales of Purchased Products. In the normal course of business, we purchase refined products manufactured by others for resale to our customers to meet local market demands. We purchase these refined products, primarily gasoline, jet fuel, diesel fuel and industrial and marine fuel blendstocks, mainly in the spot market. Our gasoline and diesel fuel purchase and resale transactions are principally on the West Coast. Our primary jet fuel resale activity consists of supplying markets in Alaska, California, Washington, Oregon and Utah. We also purchase for resale a lesser amount of gasoline and other refined products for sales outside of our refineries’ markets.

TLLP

 10
Overview

TLLP is a fee-based, growth-oriented Delaware limited partnership formed by us to own, operate, develop and acquire logistics assets. TLLP completed its initial public offering in April 2011 and is a publicly traded limited partnership that is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol TLLP. TLLP owns and operates networks of over 3,500 miles of crude oil, refined products and natural gas pipelines. TLLP also owns and operates 28 crude oil and refined products truck and marine terminals and has over 9 million barrels of storage capacity. In addition, TLLP owns and operates four natural gas processing complexes and one fractionation facility. TLLP’s business operates in three segments: Gathering, Processing, and Terminalling and Transportation. TLLP introduced a new reporting segment (Processing) for the processing operations acquired in the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition discussed further below. In addition, TLLP modified its previous Crude Oil Gathering segment to encompass all gathering operations, including the natural gas transmission operations acquired in the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition.

TLLP generates revenues by charging fees for gathering crude oil and natural gas, for processing natural gas, and for terminalling, transporting and storing crude oil, and refined products. As TLLP is a variable interest entity as defined under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and is consolidated into our financial statements, intercompany transactions with TLLP and its subsidiaries are eliminated in our consolidated financial statements. With the exception of a small amount of condensate, TLLP is not exposed to commodity price risk with respect to any of the crude oil, natural gas, NGLs or refined products that are handled. For the NGLs that TLLP handles, TLLP has a fee-based processing agreement with Tesoro which minimizes the impact of commodity price movement during the annual period subsequent to renegotiation of terms and pricing each year. TLLP does not engage in the trading of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs or refined products; therefore it has minimal direct exposure to risks associated with commodity price fluctuations. While TLLP holds commercial contracts with third-party natural gas producers that contain "keep whole" provisions that create exposure to the difference between NGLs and natural gas prices, TLLP has entered into a 5-year commercial agreement with Tesoro that minimizes this exposure and volatility by establishing a fixed commodity spread annually.

TLLP intends to continue expanding its business through organic growth, including constructing new assets and increasing the utilization of existing assets, and by acquiring assets from us and third parties. TLLP’s continued expansion of the logistics business will allow us to optimize the value of our assets within the midstream and downstream value chain.

On December 2, 2014, TLLP acquired the natural gas gathering, processing, treating and transportation and crude oil gathering business of QEP Resources, Inc.’s wholly-owned subsidiary, QEP Field Services, LLC (“QEPFS”), with operations in Wyoming, Colorado, Utah and the Williston Basin in North Dakota (the “Rockies Natural Gas Business”). The Rockies Natural Gas Business provides NGL fractionation and transportation services for its producer customers through direct ownership and operation of four natural gas processing complexes and one fractionation facility. As part of the transaction, TLLP acquired 56% of the limited partner interests in QEPM. Additionally, TLLP acquired the general partner of QEPM including its 2% general partner interest and 100% of the incentive distribution rights. TLLP paid total consideration of $2.5 billion, including $230 million to refinance QEPM’s debt. The purchase price includes adjustments for working capital and remains subject to post-closing adjustments. The QEPFS assets include over 2,000 miles of natural gas and crude oil gathering and transmission pipelines, within the Rocky Mountain Region and North Dakota, with natural gas throughput capacity of 2.9 billion cubic feet per day and crude oil throughput capacity of over 54 Mbpd. Additionally, the acquired assets include four natural gas processing complexes with total capacity of 1.5 billion cubic feet per day and one fractionation facility with 15 Mbpd of throughput capacity.

Gathering

TLLP’s Gathering segment consists of crude oil, natural gas and produced water gathering systems in the North Dakota Williston Basin/Bakken Shale area (the “Bakken Region”) and the Uinta, Vermillion and greater Green River basins. TLLP’s High Plains System, located in the Bakken Region, gathers and transports crude oil from various production locations in this area for transportation to Tesoro’s North Dakota refinery and other destinations in the Bakken Region, including export rail terminals and pipelines. TLLP’s natural gas gathering systems include the Uinta Basin Gathering System and TLLP’s equity method investment Uintah Basin Field Services, L.L.C. In addition, TLLP owns approximately 58% of QEPM, whose assets include ownership interests in the Vermillion, Williston, Green River and Three Rivers gathering systems and two pipelines regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) through which it provides natural gas and crude oil transportation services.

 11
The following table summarizes certain TLLP Gathering segment operating information:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)Also includes barrels that were gathered and then delivered into TLLP’s High Plains pipeline by truck. The 2014 throughput includes barrels gathered from pipelines operated by QEPM, beginning December 2, 2014.

(b)Includes throughput in million British thermal units (“MMBtu”) related to the natural gas gathering systems acquired in the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition beginning December 2, 2014.

Processing

TLLP’s Processing segment consists of four gas processing complexes, the Vermillion processing complex, the Uinta Basin processing complex, and Green River Processing, which owns one fractionation facility and two gas processing complexes, the Blacks Fork processing complex and the Emigrant Trail processing complex. TLLP processes gas for certain producers under “keep-whole” processing agreements. Under a keep-whole agreement, a producer transfers title to the NGLs produced during gas processing, and the processor, in exchange, delivers to the producer natural gas with a BTU content equivalent to the NGLs removed. The operating margin for these agreements is determined by the spread between NGL sales prices and the price paid to purchase the replacement natural gas (“Shrink Gas”). Tesoro entered into a five-year agreement with TLLP, which transfers the commodity risk exposure associated with these keep-whole processing agreements from TLLP to Tesoro (the “Keep-Whole Commodity Agreement”). Under the Keep-Whole Commodity Agreement with Tesoro, Tesoro pays TLLP a fee for TLLP to process NGLs related to keep-whole agreements and delivers Shrink Gas to the producers on behalf of TLLP. TLLP pays Tesoro a marketing fee in exchange for assuming the commodity risk. 

Terms and pricing under this agreement are revised each year. The Keep-Whole Commodity Agreement minimizes the impact for TLLP of commodity price movement during the annual period subsequent to renegotiation of terms and pricing each year. However, the annual fee TLLP charges Tesoro could be impacted as a result of any changes in the spread between NGL sales prices and the price of natural gas.

The following table summarizes certain TLLP Processing segment operating information:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

__________________

(c)Represents the throughput on the systems for the period of December 2, 2014 to December 31, 2014.

(d)Capacity and throughput for fractionation is measured in barrels of NGL per day.

(e)In May, the Emigrant Trail processing plant was down due to repairs and maintenance. During this time all volumes were diverted to the Blacks Fork processing plant and have continued to be diverted thereafter.

 12
Terminalling and Transportation

TLLP’s Terminalling and Transportation segment consists of:

•a regulated common carrier products pipeline running from Salt Lake City, Utah to Spokane, Washington and a jet fuel pipeline to the Salt Lake City International Airport (the “Northwest Products Pipeline”);

•a regulated common carrier refined products pipeline system connecting Tesoro’s Kenai refinery to Anchorage, Alaska;

•24 crude oil and refined products terminals and storage facilities in the western and midwestern U.S.;

•four marine terminals in California;

•a rail-car unloading facility in Washington;

•a petroleum coke handling and storage facility in Los Angeles; and

•other pipelines which transport products and crude oil from Tesoro’s refineries to nearby facilities in Salt Lake City and Los Angeles.

TLLP’s refined products terminals are supplied by Tesoro-owned and third-party pipelines, trucks and barges. TLLP’s marine terminals load and unload vessels, its rail car unloading facility receives crude oil transported on unit trains leased by us, and its petroleum coke facility handles and stores petroleum coke from our Los Angeles refinery.

Tesoro has various long-term, fee-based commercial agreements with TLLP and its subsidiaries which establish fees for pipeline transportation, trucking, terminal distribution, storage and coke-handling services. These agreements have initial terms which expire in 2016 through 2024. Each of these agreements, with the exception of a storage and transportation services agreement, contain minimum volume commitments. We believe the terms and conditions under these agreements are generally no less favorable to either party than those that could have been negotiated with unaffiliated parties with respect to similar services.

TLLP generates revenue by charging its customers for:

•transferring refined products from terminals to trucks, barges and pipelines;

•delivering crude oil and intermediate feedstocks from vessels to refineries and terminals;

•transporting refined products for third parties and Tesoro;

•unloading crude oil transported by unit train to our Washington refinery;

•providing ancillary services, including storage, ethanol blending and additive injection, and for barge loading or unloading fees; and

•handling and storing petroleum coke for our Los Angeles refinery.

 13
The following table summarizes certain TLLP terminalling throughput information:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)Includes two marine terminals TLLP acquired along with the majority of remaining assets initially acquired as part of the Los Angeles Acquisition (the “Los Angeles Logistics Assets Acquisition”). As such, 2013 throughput includes predecessor volumes from June 1, 2013 through December 5, 2013 and TLLP volumes from December 6, 2013 through December 31, 2013.

(b)Includes terminalling throughput from five terminals, which were acquired in TLLP’s acquisition of six marketing and storage terminal facilities in southern California (the “Los Angeles Terminal Assets Acquisition”), the Carson products terminal acquired in the Los Angeles Logistics Assets Acquisition and the Martinez terminal acquired in TLLP’s purchase of certain terminalling and pipeline assets owned by Tesoro and two of our subsidiaries in 2014 (the “West Coast Logistics Assets Acquisition”). For the Carson products terminal, 2013 throughput includes predecessor volumes from June 1, 2013 through December 5, 2013 and TLLP volumes from December 6, 2013 through December 31, 2013. For the Martinez terminal throughput volumes include predecessor volumes through June 30, 2014 and TLLP volumes from July 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014.

(c)Includes the Boise and Pocatello terminals, which were acquired in TLLP’s acquisition of Chevron Pipe Line Company’s and Northwest Terminalling Company’s northwest products system (the “Northwest Products System Acquisition”) on June 19, 2013.

(d)Includes the Pasco terminal that was acquired in the Northwest Products System Acquisition on June 19, 2013, and the Anacortes terminal that was acquired in the West Coast Logistics Assets Acquisition on July 1, 2014. As such, throughput volumes for the Anacortes terminal include predecessor volumes through June 30, 2014 and TLLP volumes from July 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014.

(e)Includes the Nikiski terminal that was acquired in the West Coast Logistics Assets Acquisition on July 1, 2014. As such, throughput volumes for the Nikiski terminal include predecessor volumes through June 30, 2014 and TLLP volumes from July 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014.

The following table summarizes certain TLLP transportation volume information:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(f)Includes throughput from the Northwest Products Pipeline from the June 19, 2013 acquisition date through December 31, 2013.

(g)Los Angeles transportation pipelines were acquired on June 1, 2013 by Tesoro and later acquired by TLLP from Tesoro in the Los Angeles Logistics Assets Acquisition on December 6, 2013. Throughput includes TLLP volumes from December 6, 2013 through December 31, 2013. Tesoro did not separately track transportation volumes on the pipeline assets acquired in the Los Angeles Logistics Assets Acquisition; therefore, 2013 pipeline volume has not been adjusted to include the activity prior to December 6, 2013.

(h)Includes volumes from the refined products pipeline acquired in the West Coast Logistics Assets Acquisition. As such, 2014 throughput includes predecessor volumes through September 29, 2014 and TLLP volumes from September 30, 2014 through December 31, 2014.

 14
RETAIL

Tesoro’s Branded Retail Network (a)

____________________

(a)Brand logos are indicative of locations where we currently market fuels. The states highlighted are not representative of our rights to market in each state as some may be subject to geographic limitations.

Our retail network provides a committed outlet for the majority of the gasoline produced by our refineries. Our retail segment included a network of 2,267 retail stations under the ARCO®, Shell®, Exxon®, Mobil®, USA GasolineTM and Tesoro® brands as of December 31, 2014.

Retail Developments

In December 2014, our retail segment completed the conversion of all remaining company-operated retail stations to multi-site operator (“MSO”) retail stations where we continue to own and have the rights to revenues earned from the transportation fuels sold at these locations. Under these MSO arrangements, we no longer operate the convenience stores, own the related merchandise inventory or employ the store employees as the MSO operates the stations. We sell gasoline and diesel fuel through these MSO-operated retail stations and agreements with third-party branded dealers and distributors (or “Jobber/dealers”).

In 2013, we secured the rights from ExxonMobil to use the Exxon® and Mobil® brands at retail stations in northern California, Oregon, western Washington and Nevada, which are marketing areas strategically aligned with our West Coast operations. We also secured the rights to use the Exxon® and Mobil® brands throughout Minnesota, North Dakota, northeastern South Dakota and four counties in western Wisconsin, which are marketing areas anchored by our refinery in Mandan, North Dakota. Through this arrangement, we assumed ownership of branded-wholesale supply contracts for Exxon® or Mobil® branded retail stations in Minnesota. In 2014, we expanded our Exxon® and Mobil® branding rights to include Utah, Arizona and western Idaho which are sourced by our refineries in Salt Lake City, Utah and Los Angeles, California.

 15
The following table summarizes certain retail operating information:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)Since we completed the sale of all of our interest in Tesoro Hawaii, LLC in September 2013, we have excluded the Hawaii retail operations from the retail operating data for all periods presented throughout.

(b)In 2014, we converted all remaining company-operated retail stations to MSO-operated retail stations.

COMPETITION

The refining industry is highly competitive and includes a number of companies that have greater financial and other resources, including proprietary crude oil supplies. We obtain all of our crude oil from third-party sources and compete in the world market for the crude oil and feedstocks we process, and for the customers who purchase refined products. The availability and cost of crude oil and other feedstocks, as well as the prices of the products we produce, are heavily influenced by global supply and demand dynamics.

We sell gasoline through our network of retail stations and on a wholesale basis. We sell most of our distillate production through wholesale channels. We compete with other refiners and with importers for customers in most of our market areas. Competition and concentrations specific to each of our refineries are as follows:

•Our Martinez, Los Angeles and Washington refineries compete with several refiners in the contiguous West Coast states. We periodically export products, with our exports to foreign markets increasing over the last three years.

•Our Alaska refinery competes with two other in-state refineries along with refineries on the West Coast and in Asia. Our jet fuel sales in Alaska are concentrated in Anchorage, where we are one of the principal suppliers at the Anchorage International Airport. In February 2014, Flint Hills Resources Alaska, LLC ceased processing at its North Pole refinery beginning in May 2014, making our Alaska refinery the largest remaining refinery in the state.

•Our North Dakota refinery is the only refinery presently operating in the state and primarily competes with refineries in Wyoming, Montana, the Midwest and with pipeline supply from the Gulf Coast region. The Midwest region ranks second among the regions in crude oil refining throughput in the United States. This region processes crude oil from the Bakken Formation and imports crude oil from Canada.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our retail marketing operations compete with other independent marketers, integrated oil companies and high-volume retailers. We sell gasoline in western and midwestern states through a network of retail stations, including MSOs, and branded and unbranded Jobber/dealers. Competitive factors that affect retail marketing include product price, station appearance, location and brand awareness. Large national retailers as well as regional retailers continue to grow their retail fuel business.

 16
Our logistics operations under TLLP are classified in three segments: gathering, processing and terminalling and transportation. TLLP’s gathering business competes with a number of transportation, midstream, and trucking companies for the gathering and transportation of crude oil and natural gas, as applicable, in the areas in which they operate. Competition for TLLP’s gathering business includes competing for opportunities to build gathering lines from producers or other pipeline companies, providing accessible and flexible service to producers, and facilitating the transportation of crude oil and natural gas to applicable markets. In processing, TLLP competes with midstream companies and producers primarily based on reputation, commercial terms, reliability, service levels, flexibility, access to markets, location, available capacity, capital expenditures and fuel efficiencies. TLLP’s terminalling and transportation business competes primarily with independent terminal and pipeline companies, integrated petroleum companies, refining and marketing companies and distribution companies with marketing and trading arms. Competition in particular geographic areas is affected primarily by the volumes of refined products produced by refineries located in those areas, the availability of refined products and the cost of transportation to those areas from refineries located in other areas.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND LEGISLATION

Regulatory Controls and Expenditures

We, as other companies engaged in similar businesses, are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state, regional and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the environment, including those governing emissions or discharges to land, air and water, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination. While we believe our facilities are in substantial compliance with current requirements, we will continue to engage in efforts to meet new legislative and regulatory requirements applicable to our operations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to make significant expenditures. For example:

•The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has promulgated multiple regulations to control greenhouse gas emissions under the Federal Clean Air Act. The first of these regulations, finalized on April 1, 2010, set standards for the control of greenhouse gas emissions from light trucks and cars. The U.S. Congress may also consider legislation regarding greenhouse gas emissions in the future.

•The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 mandates the blending of increasing amounts of renewable fuels in the supply of transportation fuels used domestically. This use of renewable fuels is required of all manufacturers and importers of transportation fuels sold domestically. The EPA implemented the second renewable fuel standard (“RFS2”) through regulation and RFS2 requires transportation fuel manufacturers to provide proof of purchase of these renewable fuels. The costs associated with RFS2 compliance are uncertain and fluctuate with market dynamics.

•In California, Assembly Bill 32 (“AB 32”), created a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions and requires that the state return to 1990 emission levels by 2020. AB 32 also created a low carbon fuel standard, which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of fuels by 2020. 

•The EPA issued a final rule in April 2014, requiring, among other things, the reduction of the concentration of sulfur in gasoline.

•The EPA proposed a new rule requiring further reductions in the National Ambient Air Quality Standard (“NAAQS”) for ozone in November 2014.

•The U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) proposed new regulations in August 2014 that are expected to be finalized in 2015 governing the design of rail cars used to transport petroleum and other materials.

The impact of these and other regulatory and legislative developments, if enacted or promulgated, or both, is likely to result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions on our business and an increase in the cost of the products we manufacture. Depending on market conditions, we may attempt to pass these costs on to consumers. If that is not possible, the changes could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. We cannot currently determine the amounts of such future impacts. For additional information regarding our environmental matters see “Environmental and Other Matters” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7.

 17
Oil Spill Prevention and Response

We operate in environmentally sensitive coastal waters, where tanker, pipeline, rail cars and other petroleum product transportation operations are regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. The transportation of crude oil and refined products over water involves risk and subjects us to the provisions of the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and related state requirements, which require that most petroleum refining, transport and storage companies maintain and update various oil spill prevention and oil spill contingency plans. We have submitted these plans and received federal and state approvals necessary to comply with the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and related regulations. We frequently review and modify our oil spill prevention plans and procedures to prevent crude oil and refined product releases and to minimize potential impacts should a release occur. 

We currently charter tankers to ship crude oil from foreign and domestic sources to our California, Washington and Alaska refineries. The tanker owners contract with Federally Certified Oil Spill Response Organizations (“OSROs”) to comply with federal, state and local requirements, except in Alaska where we contract with the OSROs. The OSROs are capable of responding to an oil spill equal to the greatest tanker volume delivering crude oil to our refineries. Those volumes range from 350,000 barrels to one million barrels.

We have entered into spill-response contracts with various OSROs to provide spill-response services, if required, to respond to a spill of oil originating from our facilities. We have spill-response agreements in Alaska with Cook Inlet Spill Prevention and Response, Incorporated and with Alyeska Pipeline Service Company. We also have entered into contracts with Marine Spill Response Corporation for the San Francisco Bay, Puget Sound, the Port of Los Angeles and the Port of Long Beach, and the Clean Rivers Cooperative, Inc. for the Columbia River, and Bay West, Inc. in our Mid-Continent region. These OSROs are capable of responding to an oil spill on water equal to the greatest volume above ground storage tank at our facilities or pipelines. Those volumes range from 50,000 to 600,000 barrels. We also contract with one spill-response organization outside the U.S. to support our shipments in foreign waters. In addition, we contract with various spill-response specialists to ensure appropriate expertise is available for any contingency. We believe these contracts provide the additional services necessary to meet or exceed all regulatory spill-response requirements and support our commitment to environmental stewardship.

The OSROs are rated and certified by the United States Coast Guard and are required to annually demonstrate their response capability to the United States Coast Guard and state agencies. The OSROs rated and certified to respond to open water spills must demonstrate the capability to recover up to 50,000 barrels of oil per day and store up to 100,000 barrels of recovered oil at any given time. The OSROs rated and certified to respond to inland spills must demonstrate the capability to recover from 1,875 to 7,500 barrels of oil per day and store from 3,750 to 15,000 barrels of recovered oil at any given time. We maintain our own spill-response resources to mitigate the impact of a spill from a tanker at our refineries until an OSRO can deploy its resources. Our spill response capability meets the United States Coast Guard and state requirements to either deploy on-water containment equipment two and one-half times the length of a vessel at our dock or have smaller vessels available to recover 50 barrels of oil per day and store 100 barrels of recovered oil at any given time.

The services provided by the OSROs principally consist of operating response-related equipment, managing certain aspects of a response and providing technical expertise. The OSROs provide various resources in response to an oil spill. The resources include dedicated vessels that have skimming equipment to recover oil, storage barges to temporarily store recovered oil, containment boom to control the spread of oil on water and land and to protect shorelines, and various pumps and other equipment supporting oil recovery efforts and the protection of natural resources. The OSROs have full-time personnel and contract with third parties to provide additional personnel when needed.

As a general matter, our agreements with these organizations do not contain specific physical or financial limitations. General physical limitations of these organizations would include the geographical area for which services are available and the amount of resources available at the initiation of a request for services or the duration of response and recovery efforts. 

Additionally, we require all tankers and barges engaged in moving crude oil, heavy and finished products to be double hulled. All vessels used by us to transport crude oil and refined products over water are examined or evaluated and subject to our approval prior to their use.

Pipeline Safety

Our pipelines, gathering systems and terminal operations, including those owned by TLLP, are subject to increasingly strict safety laws and regulations. The transportation and storage of refined products, natural gas and crude oil involve a risk that hazardous liquids may be released into the environment, potentially causing harm to the public or the environment. The DOT, through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and state agencies, enforce safety regulations with respect to the design, construction, operation, maintenance, inspection and management of our pipeline and storage facilities.

 18
Regulation of Pipelines

Our pipeline in Alaska is a common carrier pipeline subject to tariff regulation by various state and local agencies. Operations on portions of our pipelines are regulated by state agencies in Alaska and California. In addition, TLLP owns and operates the High Plains System, Northwest Products Pipeline, Tesoro Alaska Pipeline and certain interstate natural gas pipelines acquired in the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition, which are common carriers regulated by various federal, state and local agencies. The FERC regulates interstate transportation on TLLP’s High Plains System, Northwest Products Pipeline and natural gas pipeline under the Interstate Commerce Act, the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and the rules and regulations promulgated under those laws.

Federal regulation of interstate pipelines extends to such matters as rates, services, and terms and conditions of service; the types of services offered to customers; the certification and construction of new facilities; the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities; the maintenance of accounts and records; relationships between affiliated companies; the initiation and continuation of services; market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases or transportation of commodities; and participation by interstate pipelines in cash management arrangements.

The intrastate operation of TLLP’s Alaska pipeline is regulated by the Regulatory Commission of Alaska. The state regulatory authorities require that we notify shippers of proposed tariff increases to provide the shippers an opportunity to protest the increases. In addition to challenges to new or proposed rates, challenges to existing intrastate rates are permitted by complaint of an interested person or by independent action of the appropriate regulatory authority. The intrastate operations of TLLP’s High Plains System in North Dakota are regulated by the North Dakota Public Service Commission. Applicable state law requires that pipelines operate as common carriers, that access to transportation services and pipeline rates be non-discriminatory, that if more crude oil is offered for transportation than can be transported immediately the crude oil volumes transported be apportioned equitably and that pipeline rates be just and reasonable.

WORKING CAPITAL

We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and equivalents and cash flows generated from operations. In addition, our revolving lines of credit are available for additional working capital needs. For additional information regarding working capital see the “Capital Resources and Liquidity” section in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7.

SEASONALITY

Demand for gasoline is higher during the spring and summer months than during the fall and winter months in most of our markets due to seasonal changes in highway traffic. As a result, our operating results for both the refining and retail segments for the first and fourth quarters are typically lower than the second and third quarters. Many of the effects of seasonality on TLLP’s operating results are mitigated through the fee-based commercial agreements with us that include minimum volume commitments.

EMPLOYEES

We had more than 5,600 full-time employees at December 31, 2014, approximately 2,000 of whom are full-time represented union employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. The agreements for approximately 1,800 of these employees expired on January 31, 2015, the agreements for approximately 28 of these employees will expire on February 28, 2015, while the agreements for the remaining represented employees expire in April 2015. During the last quarter of 2014, we converted our company-operated retail locations to MSOs resulting in a significant decline in our headcount of full-time employees from 2013.

Collective bargaining agreements for hourly represented employees at several of our plants expired on January 31, 2015. Even though we were in the midst of good faith negotiations, we, along with several other U.S. refiners, received strike notifications on February 1, 2015. These notifications included our Anacortes and Martinez refineries and the Carson portion of our Los Angeles refinery. The strike notifications we received were part of a number of strike notifications received throughout the national refining industry. There is no assurance an agreement will be reached with our other facilities without a strike, work stoppage or other labor action. Refer to our risk factor discussion in Item 1A for further information.

 19
GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Alkylation - A process that chemically combines isobutane with other hydrocarbons through the control of temperature and pressure in the presence of an acid catalyst. This process produces alkylates, which have a high octane value and are blended into gasoline to improve octane values.

API - American Petroleum Institute - the main U.S. trade association for the oil and natural gas industry.

API Gravity - A scale for denoting the lightness or heaviness of crude oil and other liquid hydrocarbons. Calibrated in API degrees (or degrees API), it is used universally to express a crude oil’s relative density in an inverse measure - the lighter the crude, the higher the API gravity, and vice versa.

Calcining - a process whereby green or raw petroleum coke from the refining process is converted to a high grade coke by thermally treating it to remove moisture and volatile combustible matter. The upgraded high grade calcined coke is typically used by the aluminum industry.

CARB  - California Air Resources Board - Gasoline and diesel fuel sold in the state of California are regulated by CARB and require stricter quality and emissions reduction performance than required by other states.

Cogeneration Facility - A plant that produces both steam and electricity for use in refinery operations or for sale to third parties.

Cracking - The process of breaking down larger hydrocarbon molecules into smaller molecules, using catalysts and/or elevated temperatures and pressures.

Deasphalting - A solvent extraction process of recovering higher-value oils from refining residues.

Delayed Coking - A process by which the heaviest crude oil fractions can be thermally cracked under conditions of elevated temperatures to produce both refined products and petroleum coke.

Exchange Arrangement - An agreement providing for the delivery of crude oil or refined products to/from a third party, in exchange for the delivery of crude oil or refined products to/from the third party.

FERC - Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

Fluid Catalytic Cracking - A process that breaks down larger, heavier, and more complex hydrocarbon molecules into simpler and lighter molecules through the use of a catalytic agent and is used to increase the yield of gasoline. Fluid catalytic cracking uses a catalyst in the form of very fine particles, which behave as a fluid when aerated with a vapor.

Fractionation: The process of separating natural gas liquids into its component parts by heating the natural gas liquid stream and boiling off the various fractions in sequence from the lighter to the heavier hydrocarbon.

Gross Refining Margin - The margin on products manufactured and purchased, including those sold to our retail segment. Gross refining margin is calculated as revenues less costs of feedstocks, purchased refined products, transportation and distribution.

Heavy Crude Oil - Crude oil with an API gravity of 24 degrees or less. Heavy crude oil is typically sold at a discount to lighter crude oil.

Heavy Fuel Oils, Residual Products, Internally Produced Fuel and Other - Products other than gasoline, jet fuel and diesel fuel produced in the refining process. These products include residual fuels, gas oils, propane, petroleum coke, asphalt and internally produced fuel.

Hydrocracking - A process that uses a catalyst to crack heavy hydrocarbon molecules in the presence of hydrogen. Major products from hydrocracking are distillates, naphtha, propane and gasoline components such as butane. 

Hydrotreating - A process that removes sulfur from refined products in the presence of catalysts and substantial quantities of hydrogen to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions that result from the use of the products.

 20
Isomerization - A process that alters the fundamental arrangement of atoms in the molecule without adding or removing anything from the original material. The process is used to convert normal butane into isobutane and normal pentane into isopentane and hexane into isohexane. 

Jobber/dealer Stations - Retail stations owned by third parties that sell products purchased from or through us.

Light Crude Oil - Crude oil with an API gravity greater than 24 degrees. Light crude oil is typically sold at a premium to heavy crude oil.

Manufacturing Costs - Costs associated directly with the manufacturing process including cash operating expenses, but excluding depreciation and amortization.

Mbpd - Thousand barrels per day.

MMBtu - Million British thermal units.

MMcf - Million cubic feet.

Multi-Site Operator (“MSO”) - Companies licensed to operate retail stations in which we have a fee or leasehold interest in the property and title to the fuel until sold to the consumer. MSOs operate the non-fuel business at the location and employ the operating personnel.

Naphtha - Refined product used as a gasoline blending component, a feedstock for reforming and as a petrochemical feedstock.

Refining Yield - Volumes of product produced from crude oil and feedstocks.

Reforming - A process that uses controlled heat and pressure with catalysts to rearrange certain hydrocarbon molecules into petrochemical feedstocks and higher octane stocks suitable for blending into finished gasoline.

Retail Fuel Margin - The margin on fuel products sold through our retail segment calculated as revenues less cost of sales. Cost of sales in fuel margin are based on purchases from our refining segment and third parties using average bulk market prices adjusted for transportation and other differentials.

Throughput - The quantity of crude oil and other feedstocks processed at a refinery measured in barrels per day.

Turnaround - The scheduled shutdown of a refinery processing unit for significant overhaul and refurbishment. Turnaround expenditures are capitalized and amortized over the period of time until the next planned turnaround of the unit.

Ultra-Low Sulfur Diesel - Diesel fuel produced with lower sulfur content to lower emissions, which is required for on-road use in the U.S.

Unit Train - A train consisting of approximately one hundred rail cars containing a single material (such as crude oil) that is transported by the railroad as a single unit from its origin point to the destination, enabling decreased transportation costs and faster deliveries. 

Vacuum Distillation - Distillation under reduced pressure, which lowers the boiling temperature of crude oil in order to distill crude oil components that have high boiling points.

 21
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

The following is a list of our executive officers, their ages and their positions at Tesoro, effective as of February 18, 2015.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

There are no family relationships among the officers listed, and there are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which any of them were elected as officers. Officers are elected annually by our Board of Directors (the “Board”) in conjunction with the annual meeting of stockholders. The term of each office runs until the corresponding meeting of the Board in the next year or until a successor has been elected or qualified. Positions held for at least the past five years for each of our executive officers are described below (positions, unless otherwise specified, are with Tesoro).

Gregory J. Goff was named President and Chief Executive Officer in May 2010. Before joining Tesoro, he has served as Senior Vice President, Commercial for ConocoPhillips Corporation (“ConocoPhillips”), an international, integrated energy company, from 2008 until 2010. Mr. Goff held various other positions at ConocoPhillips beginning in 1981, including President of ConocoPhillips specialty businesses and business development from 2006 to 2008; President of ConocoPhillips U.S. Lower 48 and Latin America exploration and production business from 2004 to 2006; President of ConocoPhillips Europe and Asia Pacific downstream from 2002 to 2004; Chairman and Managing Director of Conoco Limited, a UK-based refining and marketing affiliate, from 2000 to 2002; and director and CEO of Conoco JET Nordic from 1998 to 2000.

Keith M. Casey was named Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development in April 2013. Prior to joining Tesoro, Mr. Casey served as Vice President, BP Products North America, Texas City Refinery beginning in September 2006.

Charles S. Parrish was named Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in April 2009. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary beginning in May 2006; Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary beginning in March 2005 and as Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Secretary beginning in November 2004.

Steven M. Sterin was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2014. Prior to joining Tesoro, Mr. Sterin held financial leadership positions, including service as the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Celanese Corporation from July 2007 until May 2014.

Cynthia J. Warner was named Executive Vice President, Strategy and Business Development in October 2014. Before joining Tesoro, Mrs. Warner served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board of Sapphire Energy beginning in 2009. 

Daryl R. Schofield was named Senior Vice President, Commercial in March 2014. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Crude Strategy and Trading beginning in August 2013. Before joining Tesoro, Mr. Schofield served three years as Vice President, Head of Global Marketing and Commercial Midstream and A&D, at Talisman Energy.

Arlen O. Glenewinkel, Jr. was named Vice President and Controller in December 2006.

Brad S. Lakhia was named Vice President and Treasurer in July 2014. Before joining Tesoro, Mr. Lakhia served as Senior Director - Business Development starting in December 2012 at The Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company (“Goodyear”). Prior to December 2012, Mr. Lakhia held financial leadership positions at Goodyear, including Finance Director - ASEAN from July 2010 to December 2012 and Vice President - Finance, Global Procurement from September 2009 to July 2010.

 22
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following is a list of our Board of Directors, effective as of February 18, 2015:

Rodney F. ChaseChairman of the Audit Committee of Tesoro Corporation; Non-Executive Chairman of Genel Energy plc and Computer Sciences Corporation; Director of Hess Corporation

Gregory J. GoffChairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Tesoro Corporation; Chairman of the Board of Tesoro Logistics, LP and QEP Midstream Partners, LP; Director of Polyone Corporation

Robert W. Goldman

Former Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Conoco, Inc.; 

Director of Parker Drilling Co.

Steven H. GrapsteinChief Executive Officer of Como Holdings USA, Inc.; Director of Mulberry Group plc

David LilleyChairman of the Compensation Committee of Tesoro Corporation; Former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Cytec Industries, Inc.; Director of Rockwell Collins, Inc. and Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated

Mary Pat McCarthyFormer Vice Chairman, KPMG LLP; Director of Mutual of Omaha

J.W. NokesChairman of the Environmental, Health, Safety and Security Committee of Tesoro Corporation; Retired Executive Vice President for ConocoPhillips; Director of Post Oak Bank (Houston, Texas); Non-Executive Chairman of Albemarle Corporation

Susan TomaskyLead Director and Chairman of the Governance Committee of Tesoro Corporation; Former President of AEP Transmission, a division of American Electric Power Company, Inc.; Director of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and Summit Midstream Partners, LP

Michael E. WileyRetired Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Baker Hughes, Inc.; Director of Bill Barrett Corporation

Patrick Y. YangFormer Head of Global Technical Operations for F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd.; Director of Celladon Corporation, Codexis, Inc. and Amyris, Inc.

 23
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS