Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

 Interest Rate Risk  

 We do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. Our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. Floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. Fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates.  

 We manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. The major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions.  

 Fiscal 2011  

 As of July 2, 2011, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Total debt as of July 2, 2011 was $2.7 billion, of which approximately 75% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements.  

 In fiscal 2010, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $200 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 (the fiscal 2014 swap) and $250 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013 (the fiscal 2013 swap) to floating rate debt. Both transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost. These transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates.  

 As of July 2, 2011, the fiscal 2014 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $7.4 million. The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month LIBOR which resets quarterly. As of July 2, 2011, the fiscal 2013 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $6.1 million. The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.2% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month LIBOR which resets quarterly.  

 The following tables present our interest rate position as of July 2, 2011. All amounts are stated in U.S. dollar equivalents.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements.   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Rate A — three-month LIBOR   

 34   
 Fiscal 2010  

 As of July 3, 2010, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Total debt as of July 3, 2010 was $2.5 billion, of which approximately 81% was at fixed rates of interest including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements.  

 As of July 3, 2010, the 2014 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $5.5 million. The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month LIBOR which resets quarterly. As of July 3, 2010, the 2013 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $5.5 million. The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.2% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month LIBOR which resets quarterly.  

 The following tables present our interest rate positions as of July 3, 2010. All amounts are stated in U.S. dollar equivalents.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

 The majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. To the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary’s functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. We will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders’ equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. Our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.5% in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 and 0.9% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009. The impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. A 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2011 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2011 sales by 0.6% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. We do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks.  

 Our Canadian financing subsidiary has the U.S. dollar as its functional currency and has notes denominated in U.S. dollars. We have the potential to create taxable income in Canada when this debt is paid due to changes in the exchange rate from the inception of the debt through the payment date. A 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2011 year-end exchange rate and the resulting increase in the tax liability associated with these notes would not have a material impact on our results of operations.  

 Fuel Price Risk  

 Due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. The price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. Increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. First, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. Second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. Third, increased    

 35   
 fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.6%, 0.6% and 0.8% of sales, respectively. Fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by Sysco increased by approximately $33.0 million in fiscal 2011 from fiscal 2010 and decreased by $71.8 million in fiscal 2010 over fiscal 2009.  

 We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. As of July 2, 2011, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $86 million through June 2012. These contracts will lock in the price of approximately 30% to 35% of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices lower than the current market price for diesel for the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2012 and near the current market price for diesel for the remainder of the fiscal year.  

 Fuel costs in fiscal 2012, exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to increase by approximately $35 million to $45 million as compared to fiscal 2011. Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2012 and estimates of fuel consumption. Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. A 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price used in our estimates above would change the range of potential increase to $55 million to $65 million.  

 Investment Risk  

 Our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. The amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan’s assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability. Fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and pension expense to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan’s funded status is measured. Also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. Specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have a material impact on our results of operations. To the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions, pension expense and funded status will be affected for future years. A 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored Retirement Plan at the plan’s fiscal year end (December 31, 2010) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2012; however, this unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2012 by $39.8 million and would reduce our shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet as of July 2, 2011 by $129.7 million.   

 36   
  Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data