Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

 Our discussion below of our results includes certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide important perspective with respect to underlying business trends. Any non-GAAP financial measure will be denoted as an adjusted measure and excludes expenses from our Business Transformation Project, from withdrawals from multiemployer pension plans, restructuring charges, corporate-owned life insurance policies (COLI) policies, recognized tax benefits and the impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2010. More information on the rationale for the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.”  

 Overview  

 Sysco distributes food and related products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. Our operations are primarily located throughout the United States, Canada and Ireland and include broadline companies (which include our custom-cut meat operations), SYGMA (our chain restaurant distribution subsidiary), specialty produce companies, hotel supply operations, a company that distributes specialty imported products and a company that distributes to international customers.  

 We consider our primary market to be the foodservice market in the United States and Canada and estimate that we serve about 17.5% of this approximately $225 billion annual market. According to industry sources, the foodservice, or food-away-from-home, market represents approximately 46% of the total dollars spent on food purchases made at the consumer level in the United States.   

 Industry sources estimate the total foodservice market in the United States experienced a real sales decline of approximately 0.4% in calendar year 2011 and 2.5% in calendar year 2010. Real sales declines do not include the impact of inflation or deflation.  

 General economic conditions and consumer confidence can affect the frequency of purchases and amounts spent by consumers for food-away-from-home and, in turn, can impact our customers and our sales. We believe the current general economic conditions, including pressure on consumer disposable income, have contributed to a decline in the foodservice market. Historically, we have grown at a faster rate than the overall industry and believe we have continued to grow our market share in this fragmented industry.   

 Highlights  

 High levels of product costs and an uneven economic recovery contributed to a challenging business environment in fiscal 2012. Our case volume growth has shown modest improvement in a low growth market environment. However, our earnings declined due to high levels of inflation and rising operating expenses, driven in part by our expenses related to our Business Transformation Project.  

  Comparison of results from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2011:  

 · Sales increased 7.8% to $42.4 billion primarily due to increased prices due to inflation and secondarily from case volume growth. 

 · Operating income decreased 2.1%, or $40.9 million, to $1.9 billion, primarily driven by lower gross margins and increased operating expenses partially from increased expenses from payroll and our Business Transformation Project. These expense increases were partially offset by increases in gross profit dollars. Adjusted operating income increased 3.0%, or $60.9 million. 

 · Net earnings decreased 2.6% to $1.1 billion primarily due to the decline in operating income. Adjusted net earnings increased 4.7%, or $56.4 million. 

 · Basic and diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2012 were $1.91 and $1.90, respectively. This represents a 2.6% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount for basic earnings per share of $1.96 per share and a 3.1% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount for diluted earnings per share of $1.96. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $2.13 in fiscal 2012 and $2.04 in fiscal 2011, an increase of 4.4%. 

 See “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” for an explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures.  

 Trends and Strategy  

 Trends  

 General economic conditions and consumer confidence can affect the frequency of purchases and amounts spent by consumers for food-away-from-home and, in turn, can impact our customers and our sales. We believe the current general economic conditions, including pressure on consumer disposable income, have contributed to a slow rate of recovery in the foodservice market. According to industry sources, real sales for the total foodservice market in the United States are not expected to grow significantly over the next year.  

 16  

We experienced prolonged levels of high product cost inflation during most of fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. Our product cost inflation reached a high of 7.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and a low of 3.3% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. While we are generally able to pass on modest levels of inflation to our customers, we were unable to fully pass through these higher levels of product cost inflation with the same gross margin percentage without negatively impacting our customers’ business and therefore our business. In the summer months of 2012, certain agricultural areas of the United States have experienced severe drought. The impact of this drought is uncertain and could result in volatile input costs. Input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at current levels, periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit, operating income and earnings.  

 We have experienced higher operating costs this fiscal year. Some of the increase has resulted from increased pay-related expenses. Sales compensation includes commissions which are driven by gross profit dollars and case volumes, and delivery compensation includes activity-based pay which is driven by case volumes. Since these drivers are variable in nature, increased gross profit dollars and case volumes have increased sales and delivery compensation. We believe pay-related expense could continue to increase if gross profit dollars and case volumes increase; however, the impact of our productivity related initiatives could favorably impact the magnitude of this trend. Fuel costs are expected to stabilize provided that fuel prices do not significantly change from their current levels. Our Business Transformation Project is a key part of our strategy to control costs and grow our market share over the long-term. This project includes an integrated software system that went into deployment in August 2012. We believe expenses related to the project will increase in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 due to amortization of the software asset and increased deployment costs.   

 Net company-sponsored pension costs for our Retirement Plan have experienced volatility over the past five years primarily due to changes in interest rates which are used to determine the discount rates for our pension obligations and our pension asset performance. For most of these periods, we have experienced significantly increased pension expense. At the end of fiscal 2012, Sysco decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2012 for all U.S.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. Effective January 1, 2013, these employees will be eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. Pension costs will decrease in fiscal 2013 primarily due to this plan freeze. Our expenses related to our defined contribution plan will increase in fiscal 2013 and will more than offset our reduced pension costs; however, over the long-term, we believe the changes to both plans will result in reduced volatility of retirement related expenses and a reduction in total retirement related expenses.   

 Strategy   

 We are focused on optimizing our core broadline business in the U.S. and Canada, while continuing to explore appropriate opportunities to profitably grow our market share and create shareholder value by expanding beyond our core business. Day-to-day, our business decisions are driven by our mission to market and deliver great products to our customers with exceptional service, with the aspirational vision of becoming each of our customers’ most valued and trusted business partner. We have identified five strategies to help us achieve our mission and vision:  

 · Profoundly enrich the experience of doing business with Sysco: Our primary focus is to help our customers succeed. We believe that by building on our current competitive advantages, we will be able to further differentiate our offering to customers. Our competitive advantages include our sales force of over 8,000 marketing associates; our diversified product base, which includes quality-assured Sysco brand products; the suite of services we provide to our customers such as business reviews and menu analysis; and our wide geographic presence in the United States and Canada. In addition, we have a portfolio of businesses spanning broadline, specialty meat, chain restaurant distribution, specialty produce, hotel amenities, specialty import and export which serves our customers’ needs across a wide array of business segments. We believe this strategy of enriching the experience of doing business with Sysco will increase customer retention and profitably accelerate sales growth with both existing and new customers. 

 · Continuously improve productivity in all areas of our business: Our multi-year Business Transformation Project is designed to improve productivity and reduce costs. An integrated software system is included in this project and will support a majority of our business processes to further streamline our operations and reduce costs. These systems are commonly referred to as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems. We view the technology as an important enabler of this project; however the larger outcome of this project will be from transformed processes that standardize portions of our operations. This includes a shared business service center to centrally manage certain back-office functions that are currently performed at a majority of our operating companies. This project also includes removing costs from our operations through improved productivity without impacting our service to our customers. We continue to optimize warehouse and delivery activities across the corporation to achieve a more efficient delivery of products to our customers and we seek to improve sales productivity and lower general and administrative costs. We also have a product cost reduction initiative to provide the right products to our customers while leveraging our purchasing power.  

 17  

 · Expand our portfolio of products and services by initiating a customer-centric innovation program: We continually explore opportunities to provide new and improved products, technologies and services to our customers.  

 · Explore, assess and pursue new businesses and markets: This strategy is focused on identifying opportunities to expand the core business through growth in new international markets and in adjacent areas that complement our core foodservice distribution business. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses. 

 · Develop and effectively integrate a comprehensive, enterprise-wide talent management process: Our ability to drive results and grow our business is directly linked to having the best talent in the industry. We are committed to the continued enhancement of our talent management programs in terms of how we recruit, select, train and develop our associates throughout Sysco as well as succession planning. Our ultimate objective is to provide our associates with outstanding opportunities for professional growth and career development.  

 Business Transformation Project   

 In fiscal 2009, we commenced our Business Transformation Project, which currently consists of three main components:  

 · the design and deployment of an ERP system to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations;  

 · a cost transformation initiative to lower our cost structure; and  

 · a product cost reduction initiative to use market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment issues. 

 In fiscal 2012, we continued to refine our ERP system after implementing it at two pilot operating companies. The system has been deployed to three operating companies and we are targeting to convert 5 to 15 U.S. Broadline operating companies in fiscal 2013. Our next five conversions will be in Texas and Louisiana. We believe future conversions will be 15 to 25 U.S. Broadline operating companies per year from fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2016. Although we expect the investment in the ERP system within our Business Transformation Project to provide meaningful benefits to the company over the long-term, the costs will exceed the benefits during fiscal 2013.   

 Expenses related to the Business Transformation Project were $193.1 million in fiscal 2012 or $0.21 per share, $102.6 million in fiscal 2011 or $0.11 per share and $81.1 million in fiscal 2010 or $0.09 per share. We anticipate that project expenses for fiscal 2013 will continue to significantly increase primarily due to the initiation of software amortization as the system was placed into service in August 2012. Our costs will also increase from the ramp up of our shared services center, continuing costs for deployment of the software platform and information technology support costs. Some of these increased costs will be partially offset by benefits obtained from the project, primarily in reduced headcount; however the costs will exceed the benefits in fiscal 2013.   

 Our cost transformation initiative seeks to lower our cost structure by $300 million to $350 million annually by fiscal 2015. These include initiatives to increase our productivity in the warehouse and delivery activities including fleet management and maintenance activities. It also involves improving sales productivity and reducing general and administrative expenses, partially through aligning compensation and benefit plans.   

 Our product cost reduction initiative is designed to lower our total product costs by $250 million to $300 million annually by fiscal 2015. This initiative involves the use of market data and customer insights to make changes to product pricing and product assortment. We believe there are opportunities to more effectively provide the products that our customers want, to benefit from our purchasing power and to create mutually beneficial partnerships with our suppliers. We believe that procuring greater quantities with select vendors will result in reduced prices for our product purchases.   

 We expect our expenses related to the Business Transformation Project for fiscal 2013 to be approximately $300 million to $350 million net of benefits obtained from our shared services center. We expect our capital expenditures related to this project to be approximately $5 million to $20 million. In fiscal 2013, we believe we can obtain approximately 25% of the total expected annualized benefits of $550 million to $650 million. If we are successful in obtaining these benefits in fiscal 2013, some of the trends noted above could be favorably impacted.  

 18  

 Results of Operations  

 The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage of sales for the periods indicated:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following table sets forth the change in the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:  

                    2012        2011    

   Sales              7.8    %      5.6    %    

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Other expense (income), net was income of $6.8 million in fiscal 2012, income of $14.2 million in fiscal 2011 and expense of $0.8 million in fiscal 2010.  

 Sales  

 Sales for fiscal 2012 were 7.8% higher than fiscal 2011. Sales for fiscal 2012 increased as a result of product cost inflation, and the resulting increase in selling prices, along with improving case volumes. Changes in product cost, an internal measure of inflation, were approximately 5.5% during fiscal 2012. Case volumes including acquisitions within the last 12 months improved approximately 3.0% during fiscal 2012. Case volumes excluding acquisitions within the last 12 months improved approximately 2.5% during fiscal 2012. Our case volumes represent our results from our Broadline and SYGMA segments only. Sales from acquisitions in the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 0.7% for fiscal 2012. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales when compared to fiscal 2011.   

 Sales for fiscal 2011 were 5.6% higher than fiscal 2010. After adjusting for the estimated impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2010, the adjusted increase in sales in fiscal 2011 would have been 7.7%. Sales for fiscal 2011 increased as a result of product cost inflation, and the resulting increase in selling prices, along with improving case volumes. Estimated product cost increases, an internal measure of inflation, were approximately 4.6% during fiscal 2011. Case volumes including acquisitions within the last 12 months improved approximately 4.1% during fiscal 2011. Case volumes excluding acquisitions within the last 12 months improved approximately 3.4%   

 19  

during fiscal 2011. Sales from acquisitions in the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 0.7% for fiscal 2011. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.5% compared to fiscal 2010.   

 Operating Income  

 Cost of sales primarily includes our product costs, net of vendor consideration, and includes in-bound freight. Operating expenses include the costs of facilities, product handling, delivery, selling and general and administrative activities. Fuel surcharges are reflected within sales and gross profit; fuel costs are reflected within operating expenses.   

 Fiscal 2012 vs. Fiscal 2011  

 Operating income decreased 2.1% in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011 to $1.9 billion, and as a percentage of sales, decreased to 4.5% of sales. This decrease was primarily driven by declines in gross margin and increased operating expenses partially from increased expenses from payroll and our Business Transformation Project. These expense increases were partially offset by increases in gross profit dollars. Gross profit dollars increased 3.8% in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011, and operating expenses increased 5.9% in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. Adjusted operating income increased 3.0%, or $60.9 million, during fiscal 2012.  

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to increased sales. Gross margin, which is gross profit as a percentage of sales, was 18.11% in fiscal 2012, a decline of 69 basis points from the gross margin of 18.80% in fiscal 2011. This decline in gross margin was primarily the result of product cost inflation.  Other factors contributing to our gross margin decline were competitive pressures on pricing, segment mix changes where certain of our lower margin segments grew faster than our Broadline segment and our own strategy to gain market share.   

 Sysco’s product cost inflation was estimated as inflation of 5.5% during fiscal 2012. Based on our product sales mix for fiscal 2012, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the meat, canned and dry and frozen product categories in the range of 6% to 8%. Our product cost inflation reached a high of 7.3% in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 and a low of 3.3% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. While we are generally able to pass through modest levels of inflation to our customers, we were unable to fully pass through these higher levels of product cost inflation with the same gross margin in these product categories without negatively impacting our customers’ business and therefore our business. In the summer months of 2012, certain agricultural areas of the United States have experienced severe drought. The impact of this drought is uncertain and could result in volatile input costs. Input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at these levels, prolonged periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on us and our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact our sales, gross profit and earnings. Our product cost reduction initiative is designed to lower our total product costs by $250 million to $300 million annually by fiscal 2015; however we believe  the impact on our product costs in fiscal 2013 will be modest.   

 Gross profit dollars for fiscal 2012 also increased as a result of higher fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges were approximately $47.5 million higher in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011 due to higher fuel prices incurred during fiscal 2012 and the application of fuel surcharges to a broader customer base for the entire fiscal period. Assuming that fuel prices do not greatly vary from recent levels, we expect the level of fuel surcharges in fiscal 2013 to remain consistent with those experienced in fiscal 2012.  

 Operating expenses for fiscal 2012 increased 5.9% primarily due to increased pay-related expenses, increased expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, increased fuel costs and an unfavorable year-over-year comparison on the amounts recorded to adjust the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values as compared to the prior year period. These increases were partially offset by decreases in net company-sponsored pension costs and lower provisions related to multiemployer pension plans. Adjusted operating expenses increased 4.1%, or $221.0 million, in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011.  

 Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business Transformation Project, increased by $153.7 million in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011. The increase was primarily due to increased sales and delivery compensation and added costs from companies acquired within the last 12 months. Sales compensation includes commissions which are driven by gross profit dollars and case volumes, and delivery compensation includes activity-based pay which is driven by case volumes. Since these drivers are variable in nature, increased gross profit dollars and cases volumes will increase sales and delivery compensation. However, the impact of our productivity related initiatives could favorably impact the magnitude of this trend. Also contributing to the increase was a restructuring charge related to severance incurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 of $6.4 million.  

 Expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, inclusive of pay-related expense, were $193.1 million in fiscal 2012 and $102.6 million in fiscal 2011, representing an increase of $90.5 million. The increase in fiscal 2012 resulted from increased project spending, reduced capitalization of expenditures and expenses due to the ramp up of our shared services center. We anticipate that project expenses for fiscal 2013 will continue to increase primarily due to the initiation of software amortization as the system was placed into service in August 2012. Additionally, the majority of the expenditures forecasted for fiscal 2013 will be expensed as the company is in the deployment phase of the project. We believe the increase in project expenses, including all pay-related expenses,   

 20  

related to the Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2013 as compared to fiscal 2012 will be approximately $105 million to $155 million.   

 Fuel costs increased by $39.8 million in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011 primarily due to increased contracted and market diesel prices. Our costs per gallon increased 13.0% in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011. Our activities to mitigate fuel costs include reducing miles driven by our trucks through improved routing techniques, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges. We routinely enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements with a goal of mitigating a portion of the volatility in fuel prices.  

 Our fuel commitments will result in either additional fuel costs or avoided fuel costs based on the comparison of the prices on the fixed price contracts and market prices for the respective periods. In fiscal 2012, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $20.2 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes. In fiscal 2011, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $16.4 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes.   

 As of June 30, 2012, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $96 million through April 2013. Subsequent to June 30, 2012, we entered into forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $20 million for May and June 2013. These contracts will lock in the price of approximately 35% to 45% of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices higher than the current market price for diesel. Assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2013, fuel costs exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are not expected to fluctuate significantly as compared to fiscal 2012. Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2013 and estimates of fuel consumption. Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. We continue to evaluate all opportunities to offset potential increases in fuel expense, including the use of fuel surcharges and overall expense management.   

 We adjust the carrying values of our COLI policies to their cash surrender values on an ongoing basis. The cash surrender values of these policies are largely based on the values of underlying investments, which through fiscal 2011 included publicly traded securities. As a result, the cash surrender values of these policies fluctuated with changes in the market value of such securities. The changes in the financial markets resulted in gains for these policies of $28.2 million in fiscal 2011.  Near the end of fiscal 2011, we reallocated all of our policies into low-risk, fixed-income securities to reduce earnings volatility and therefore our adjustments for fiscal 2012 were not significant.  Beginning with fiscal 2013, there should be no significant year-over-year impact from COLI adjustments as compared to fiscal 2013.  

 Net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2012 were $27.3 million lower than in fiscal 2011. The decrease in fiscal 2012 was due primarily to higher returns on assets of Sysco’s Retirement Plan obtained in fiscal 2011. At the end of fiscal 2012, Sysco decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2012 for all U.S.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. Effective January 1, 2013, these employees will be eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. Net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2013 have been determined as of the fiscal 2012 year-end measurement date and will decrease by approximately $26.5 million in fiscal 2013. Our expenses related to our defined contribution plan will increase approximately $45 million to $55 million in fiscal 2013. The decline in pension cost will occur evenly over fiscal 2013; however, the increased defined contribution expenses will occur in the last half of fiscal 2013 when these enhancements go into effect. Over the long-term, we believe the changes to both plans will result in reduced volatility of retirement related expenses and a reduction in total retirement related expenses.   Absent the Retirement Plan freeze discussed above, net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2013 would have increased $106.9 million instead of decreasing $26.5 million.   

 From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. In the last two fiscal years, we voluntary withdrew from several multiemployer plans and recorded provisions of $21.9 million in fiscal 2012 and $41.5 million in fiscal 2011.   

 We also measure our expense performance on a cost per case basis, which we seek to align with the gross profit that we are able to generate. For our Broadline companies, our cost per case increased $0.04 per case as compared to fiscal 2011. These increases primarily related to increased payroll costs and fuel costs discussed above.   

 Fiscal 2011 vs. Fiscal 2010  

 Operating income decreased 2.2% in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010 to $1.9 billion, and as a percentage of sales, declined to 4.9% of sales. The decrease was driven by the absence of the 53rd week in fiscal 2011, gross profit dollars growing at a slower rate than sales and operating expenses increasing faster than gross profit partially due to charge of $41.5 million from withdrawals from multiemployer pension plans. Gross profit dollars increased 2.9% in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010, and operating expenses increased 4.8% in fiscal 2011. Adjusted operating income increased 2.5%, or $50.8 million, in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010.  

 21  

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to increased sales, partially offset by the negative comparison of the additional week included in fiscal 2010. Gross margin was 18.80% in fiscal 2011, a decline of 50 basis points from the gross margin of 19.30% in fiscal 2010. This decline in gross margin was primarily the result of the following factors described in the paragraphs below.   

 First, Sysco’s product cost inflation was estimated as inflation of 4.6% during fiscal 2011. Based on our product sales mix for fiscal 2011, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the dairy, meat and seafood product categories in the range of 10% to 12%. Our largest selling product category, canned and dry, experienced inflation of 4%.   

 Second, ongoing strategic pricing initiatives in fiscal 2011 lowered our prices to our customers in certain product categories in order to increase sales volumes. These initiatives are being phased in over time and resulted in short-term gross profit declines as a percentage of sales, but we believe will result in long-term gross profit dollar growth due to higher sales volumes and increased market share. We have experienced meaningful year over year volume growth with those items included in the early phases of these programs in the geographies where this program has been implemented. We believe the long-term benefits of these strategic initiatives will result in profitable market share growth.   

 Third, gross profit dollars for fiscal 2011 increased as a result of higher fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges were approximately $26.0 million higher in fiscal 2011 than in the comparable prior year period due to higher fuel prices incurred during fiscal 2011 and the application of fuel surcharges to a broader customer base for a small portion of the third quarter and the entire fourth quarter.   

 Operating expenses for fiscal 2011 increased 4.8% primarily due to higher pay-related expense, an increase in net company-sponsored pension costs, provisions for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans and higher fuel costs as compared to the prior year period. The impact of these operating expense increases was partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses of approximately $101.4 million resulting from the absence of the 53rd week in fiscal 2010. Adjusted operating expense increased 5.9%, or $298.8 million, in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010.  

 Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business Transformation Project, increased by $61.1 million in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to increased sales and delivery compensation. Pay-related expenses from acquired companies and changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting these increases were lower provisions for current management incentive bonuses of $13.9 million.   

 Net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2011 were $60.3 million higher than in fiscal 2010. The increase in fiscal 2011 was due primarily to a decrease in discount rates used to calculate our projected benefit obligation and related pension expense at the end of fiscal 2010, partially offset by reduced amortization of our net actuarial loss resulting from actuarial gains from higher returns on assets of Sysco’s Retirement Plan during fiscal 2010.  

 From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. In fiscal years 2011 and 2010, we voluntary withdrew from several multiemployer plans and recorded provisions of $41.5 million in fiscal 2011 and $2.9 million in fiscal 2010.   

 Fuel costs increased by $33.0 million in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010 primarily due to increased contracted and market diesel prices. Our costs per gallon increased 14.3% in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010. Our forward fuel commitments will result in either additional fuel costs or avoided fuel costs based on the comparison of the prices on the fixed price contracts and market prices for the respective periods. In fiscal 2011, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $16.4 million of avoided fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were generally lower than market prices for the contracted volumes.  In fiscal 2010, the forward purchase commitments resulted in an estimated $1.5 million of additional fuel costs as the fixed price contracts were higher than market prices for the contracted volumes for a portion of the fiscal year.  

 For our Broadline companies, our cost per case increased $0.11 per case as compared to fiscal 2010. These increases primarily related to increased payroll costs, increased fuel costs and charges created by withdrawing from multiemployer plans, all of which are discussed above.   

 Net Earnings  

 Net earnings for fiscal 2012 decreased 2.6% over the comparable prior year period. This decrease was primarily due to changes in operating income discussed above. Adjusted net earnings increased 4.7% during fiscal 2012.   

 Net earnings for fiscal 2011 decreased 2.4% over the comparable prior year period. This decrease was primarily due to the absence of the 53rd week in fiscal 2011, the factors discussed above and an increase in the effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 was 36.96%, compared to an effective tax rate of 36.20% for fiscal 2010. The difference between the tax rates for the two periods resulted largely from the one-time reversal of interest accruals for tax contingencies related to our settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Adjusted net earnings increased 3.6% during fiscal 2011.  

 22  

 The effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 was 37.13%. Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statutory tax rates less than our domestic tax rate had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.  

 The effective tax rate of 36.96% for fiscal 2011 was favorably impacted primarily by two items. First, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $17.0 million for the reversal of valuation allowances previously recorded on state net operating loss carryforwards. Second, we adjust the carrying values of our COLI policies to their cash surrender values. The gain of $28.2 million recorded in fiscal 2011 was primarily non-taxable for income tax purposes, and had the impact of decreasing income tax expense for the period by $11.1 million. Partially offsetting these favorable impacts was the recording of $9.3 million in tax and interest related to various federal, foreign and state uncertain tax positions.  

 The effective tax rate of 36.20% for fiscal 2010 was favorably impacted primarily by two items. First, we recorded an income tax benefit of approximately $29.0 million resulting from the one-time reversal of a previously accrued liability related to the settlement with the IRS (See Note 18, “Income Taxes” for additional discussion). Second, the gain of $21.6 million recorded to adjust the carrying value of COLI policies to their cash surrender values in fiscal 2010 was non-taxable for income tax purposes, and had the impact of decreasing income tax expense for the period by $8.3 million.  

  Earnings Per Share  

 Basic and diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2012 were $1.91 and $1.90, respectively. This represents a 2.6% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount for basic earnings per share of $1.96 per share and a 3.1% decrease from the comparable prior year period amount for diluted earnings per share of $1.96. This decrease was primarily the result of the factors discussed above. Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $2.13 in fiscal 2012 and $2.04 in fiscal 2011, or an increase of 4.4%.   

 Basic and diluted earnings per share decreased 1.5% in fiscal 2011 from the prior year. This decrease was primarily the result of the absence of the 53rd week in fiscal 2011 and the factors discussed above, as well as a net reduction in shares outstanding. The net reduction in both average and diluted shares outstanding was primarily due to share repurchases which occurred during the first 26 weeks of fiscal 2011.  Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $2.04 in fiscal 2011 and $1.95 in fiscal 2010, or an increase of 4.6%.   

 Non-GAAP Reconciliations  

 Sysco’s results of operations are impacted by costs from our multi-year Business Transformation Project (BTP), significant charges from the withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan (MEPP), restructuring charges and recognized tax benefits. Additionally, near the end of fiscal 2011, we reallocated all of our investments in our COLI policies into low-risk, fixed-income securities and therefore we do not expect significant volatility in operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share in future periods related to these policies. We experienced significant gains in these policies during fiscal 2011. Management believes that adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove the impact of the Business Transformation Project expenses, multiemployer pension plan charges, restructuring charges, COLI gains and tax benefits provides an important perspective with respect to underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the performance of the company’s underlying operations and facilitates comparison on a year-over year basis.   

 In addition, Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending June 30, 2012 for fiscal 2012, a 52-week year ending  July 2, 2011 for fiscal 2011 and a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 contained an additional week as compared to fiscal 2011, our results of operations for fiscal 2010 are not directly comparable to fiscal 2011. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2010 results of operations for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. As a result, in the non-GAAP reconciliation below for fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010, in addition to the specific line item impacts noted above, operating items have been adjusted by one-fourteenth of the total metric for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. Failure to make these adjustments would cause the year-over-year changes in certain metrics such as sales, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to be overstated, whereas in certain cases, a metric may actually have increased rather than declined or declined rather than increased on a more comparable year-over-year basis.   

 The company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. These financial measures should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company’s results of operations for periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. As a result, in the tables below, each period presented is adjusted to remove expenses related to the Business Transformation Project, significant charges incurred from the withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan, restructuring charges, gains recorded on the adjustments to the carrying value of COLI policies and to remove the impact of tax benefits in fiscal 2011. In addition, fiscal 2010 results are adjusted to remove the estimate impact of the 53rd week.   

 23  

 Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to adjusted results for these measures for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Tax impact of adjustments for Business Transformation Project, multiemployer pension plan expenses, restructuring charges was $82.2 million and $53.3 million for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

 (2)  Individual components of diluted earnings per share may not sum to the total adjusted diluted earnings due to rounding.  

 24  

 Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual sales, operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to adjusted results for these measures for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Tax impact of adjustments for Business Transformation Project, multiemployer pension plan expenses, restructuring charges was $53.3 million and $16.3 million for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

 (2)  Individual components of diluted earnings per share may not sum to the total adjusted diluted earnings due to rounding.  

 25  

 Segment Results  

 We have aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined in accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise. The accounting policies for the segments are the same as those disclosed by Sysco within the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data within Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Intersegment sales represent specialty produce and imported specialty products distributed by the Broadline and SYGMA operating companies.   

 Management evaluates the performance of each of our operating segments based on its respective operating income results.  Corporate expenses generally include all expenses of the corporate office and Sysco’s shared service center. These also include all share-based compensation costs and expenses related to the company’s Business Transformation Project. While a segment’s operating income may be impacted in the short term by increases or decreases in gross profits, expenses, or a combination thereof, over the long-term each business segment is expected to increase its operating income at a greater rate than sales growth. This is consistent with our long-term goal of leveraging earnings growth at a greater rate than sales growth.   

 The following table sets forth the operating income of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage of each segment’s sales for each period reported and should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following table sets forth the change in the selected financial data of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage increase over the prior year and should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) SYGMA had operating income of $61.0 million in fiscal 2012, $62.2 million in fiscal 2011 and $49.1 million in fiscal 2010.  

 The following table sets forth sales and operating income of each of our reportable segments, the other segment, and intersegment sales, expressed as a percentage of aggregate segment sales, including intersegment sales, and operating income, respectively. For purposes of this statistical table, operating income of our segments excludes corporate expenses of $677.6 million in fiscal 2012, $558.8 million in fiscal 2011 and $513.3 million in fiscal 2010 that are not charged to our segments. This information should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 26  

 Broadline Segment  

 The Broadline reportable segment is an aggregation of the company’s United States, Canadian and European Broadline segments. Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to both traditional and chain restaurant customers and also provide custom-cut meat operations. Broadline operations have significantly higher operating margins than the rest of Sysco’s operations. In fiscal 2012, the Broadline operating results represented approximately 81.2% of Sysco’s overall sales and 94.1% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses.  

 There are several factors which contribute to these higher operating results as compared to the SYGMA and Other operating segments. We have invested substantial amounts in assets, operating methods, technology and management expertise in this segment. The breadth of its sales force, geographic reach of its distribution area and its purchasing power allow us to benefit from this segment’s earnings.  

 Sales  

 Sales for fiscal 2012 were 7.8% greater than fiscal 2011. Product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, combined with case volume improvement, contributed to the increase in sales in fiscal 2012. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 5.7% in fiscal 2012. Non-comparable acquisitions contributed 0.7% to the overall sales comparison for fiscal 2012. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars negatively impacted sales by 0.1% compared to fiscal 2011.   

 Sales for fiscal 2011 were 5.1% greater than fiscal 2010. Negatively affecting the sales comparison of fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 was the additional week in fiscal 2010. Product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, combined with case volume improvement, contributed to the increase in sales in fiscal 2011. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 4.9% in fiscal 2011. Non-comparable acquisitions contributed 0.8% to the overall sales comparison for fiscal 2011. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.6% compared to fiscal 2010.   

 Operating Income  

 Operating income increased by 3.8% in fiscal 2012 over fiscal 2011. This increase was driven by gross profit dollars increasing more than operating expenses.  

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2012 primarily due to increased sales; however, gross profit dollars increased at a lower rate than sales. This decline in gross margin was primarily the result of product cost inflation and competitive pressures on pricing. Based on Broadline’s product sales mix for fiscal 2012, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the meat, canned and dry and frozen product categories. While we are generally able to pass through modest levels of inflation to our customers, we were unable pass through fully these higher levels of product cost inflation with the same gross margin in these product categories without negatively impacting our customers’ business and therefore our business. In the summer months of 2012, certain agricultural areas of the United States have experienced severe drought. The impact of this drought is uncertain and could result in volatile input costs. Input costs could increase at any point in time for a large portion of the products that we sell for a prolonged period. While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at these levels, prolonged periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative impact on our customers, as high food costs can reduce consumer spending in the food-away-from-home market, and may negatively impact the Broadline segment’s sales, gross profit and earnings. Our product cost reduction initiative is designed to lower our total product costs by $250 million to $300 million annually by fiscal 2015; however we believe  the impact on our product costs in fiscal 2013 will be modest.  

 In addition, gross profit dollars for fiscal 2012 increased as a result of higher fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges were approximately $39.1 million higher in fiscal 2012 than the prior year due to the application of fuel surcharges to a broader customer base during fiscal 2012 due to higher fuel prices incurred during these periods. Assuming that fuel prices do not greatly vary from recent levels, we expect the level of fuel surcharges in fiscal 2013 to remain consistent with those experienced in fiscal 2012.  

 Operating expenses for the Broadline segment increased in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. The expense increases in fiscal 2012 were driven largely by an increase in pay-related expenses and fuel costs, partially offset by a favorable comparison in the provisions recorded for the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans in each fiscal year. Sales compensation includes commissions which are driven by gross profit dollars and case volumes, and delivery compensation includes activity-based pay which is driven by case volumes. Since these drivers are variable in nature, increased gross profit dollars and case volumes will increase sales and delivery compensation. However, the impact of our productivity related initiatives could favorably impact the magnitude of this trend. Fuel costs were $26.5 million higher in fiscal 2012 than the prior year. Assuming that fuel prices do not rise significantly over recent levels during fiscal 2013, fuel costs exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are not expected to fluctuate significantly as compared to fiscal 2012. Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2013 and estimates of fuel   

 27  

consumption. Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. We continue to evaluate all opportunities to offset potential increases in fuel expense, including the use of fuel surcharges and overall expense management.   

 From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. We recorded provisions related to the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans of $21.9 million in fiscal 2012 and $41.5 million in fiscal 2011.  

 We also measure our expense performance on a cost per case basis, which we seek to align with the gross profit that we are able to generate. For our Broadline companies, our cost per case increased $0.04 per case as compared to fiscal 2011 and $0.11 per case as compared to fiscal 2010. The increases in both periods primarily related to increased fuel costs and payroll costs discussed above.  Charges created by withdrawing from multiemployer plans also contributed to the increase in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010.  

 Operating income decreased 1.0% in fiscal 2011 over fiscal 2010 to $2.3 billion, and as a percentage of sales, declined to 7.3% of sales. Gross profit dollars increased slightly below the rate that operating expenses increased; however, operating expenses included a significant unfavorable comparison in the provisions recorded for the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans in each fiscal year.   

 Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2011 primarily due to increased sales; however, gross profit dollars increased at a lower rate than sales. This slower growth in gross profit dollars was primarily the result of two factors. First, based on Broadline’s product sales mix for fiscal 2011, it was most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the dairy, meat and seafood product categories in the range of 10% to 12%. Broadline’s largest selling product category, canned and dry, experienced inflation of 4%. Second, ongoing strategic pricing initiatives largely lowered our prices to our customers in certain product categories in order to increase sales volumes. These initiatives are being phased in over time and resulted in short-term gross profit declines as a percentage of sales, but we believe will result in long-term gross profit dollar growth due to higher sales volumes and increased market share. We have experienced meaningful year over year volume growth with those items included in the early phases of these programs in the geographies where this program has been implemented. We believe the long-term benefits of these strategic initiatives will result in profitable market share growth.   

 In addition, gross profit dollars for fiscal 2011 increased as a result of higher fuel surcharges. Fuel surcharges were approximately $19.4 million higher in fiscal 2011 than the prior year due to the application of fuel surcharges to a broader customer base for a small portion of the third quarter and the entire fourth quarter due to higher fuel prices incurred during these periods.   

 The expense increases in fiscal 2011 were driven largely by provisions for withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan, an increase in pay-related expenses and increased fuel costs. In fiscal 2011, we recorded provisions of $41.5 million for withdrawal liabilities from multiemployer pension plans from which union members elected to withdraw, compared to provisions of $2.9 million in fiscal 2010. The increase in pay-related expenses was primarily due to increased sales and delivery compensation. Portions of our pay-related expense are variable in nature and are expected to increase when sales and gross profit increase. Pay-related expenses from acquired companies and changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars also contributed to the increase. Fuel costs were $22.0 million higher in fiscal 2011 than the prior year.   

 SYGMA Segment  

 SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations. SYGMA operations have traditionally had lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco’s other segments. This segment of the foodservice industry has generally been characterized by lower overall operating margins as the volume that these customers command allows them to negotiate for reduced margins. These operations service chain restaurants through contractual agreements that are typically structured on a fee per case delivered basis.   

 Sales  

 Sales were 7.4% greater in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011. The increase in sales was primarily due to product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices. Sales to new customers also contributed to the increase.  

 Sales were 9.2% greater in fiscal 2011 than in fiscal 2010. Negatively affecting the sales comparison of fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2010 was the additional week in fiscal 2010. The increase in sales was primarily due to case volume improvement largely attributable to new customers and, to a lesser extent, from an increase in volume from certain existing customers.  

 One chain restaurant customer (The Wendy’s Company) accounted for approximately 29% of the SYGMA segment sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. SYGMA maintains multiple regional contracts with varied expiration dates with this customer. While the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on SYGMA, we do not believe that the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on Sysco as a whole.   

 28  

Operating Income  

 Operating income decreased $1.2 million in 2012 from the prior year due to rising operating expenses. Gross profit dollars increased 4.3% while operating expenses increased 5.3% in fiscal 2012 from fiscal 2011. Contributing to the gross profit increase in fiscal 2012 were increased sales and an increase of approximately $8.3 million in the fuel surcharges charged to customers in fiscal 2012 from prior year due to higher fuel prices in fiscal 2012. The increase in operating expenses for fiscal 2012 was largely driven by increased fuel costs. Fuel costs in fiscal 2012 were $11.3 million greater than the prior year. Assuming that fuel prices do not significantly rise above recent levels during fiscal 2013, we expect fuel costs and fuel surcharges for our SYGMA segment not to fluctuate significantly as compared to fiscal 2012.  

 Operating income increased $13.1 million in 2011 over the prior year due to increased sales and improved productivity. Gross profit dollars increased 9.5% while operating expenses increased 7.2% in fiscal 2011 from fiscal 2010. Contributing to the gross profit increase in fiscal 2011 were increased sales and an increase of approximately $6.6 million in the fuel surcharges charged to customers in fiscal 2011 from prior year due to higher fuel prices in fiscal 2011. The increase in operating expenses for fiscal 2011 was largely driven by increased delivery and warehouse personnel payroll costs resulting from increased sales as well as increased fuel cost. Productivity improvements occurred within our warehouse and delivery functions in fiscal 2011 and expense reductions occurred within our administrative functions in fiscal 2011 as compared to the prior year. Fuel costs in fiscal 2011 were $12.9 million greater than the prior year.   

 Other Segment  

 “Other” financial information is attributable to our other operating segments, including our specialty produce and lodging industry products, a company that distributes specialty imported products and a company that distributes to international customers. These operating segments are discussed on an aggregate basis as they do not represent reportable segments under segment accounting literature.  

 On an aggregate basis, our “Other” segment has had a lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco’s Broadline segment. Sysco has acquired the operating companies within these segments in relatively recent years. These operations generally operate in a niche within the foodservice industry except for our lodging supply company. Each individual operation is also generally smaller in sales and scope than an average Broadline operation and each of these operating segments is considerably smaller in sales and overall scope than the Broadline segment. In fiscal 2012, in the aggregate, the “Other” segment represented approximately 5.7% of Sysco’s overall sales and 3.5% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses.   

 Operating income decreased 9.2% for fiscal 2012 from fiscal 2011. The decrease in operating income was caused partially due to increased expenses in our specialty produce segment.   

 Operating income increased 14.3% for fiscal 2011 from fiscal 2010. The operating income comparison was negatively affected by the additional week in fiscal 2010. The increase in operating income was caused primarily by increased sales in the specialty produce segment and favorable expense management in the specialty produce and lodging industry products segments.   

 Liquidity and Capital Resources   

 Highlights  

 Comparisons of the cash flows from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2011:   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 · Settlement payments to the IRS were $212.0 million in both periods. 

 · Capital expenditures totaled $784.5 million this year compared to $636.4 million last year. 

 · Bank borrowings, net were a net repayment of $182.0 million this year compared to a net borrowing $182.0 million last year. 

 · Treasury stock purchases were $272.3 million this year compared to $291.6 million last year. 

 · Dividends paid were $622.9 million this year compared to $597.1 million last year. 

 Sources and Uses of Cash  

 Sysco’s strategic objectives include continuous investment in our business; these investments are funded by a combination of cash from operations and access to capital from financial markets. Our operations historically have produced significant cash flow. Cash generated from operations is generally allocated to:  

 · working capital requirements;  

 · investments in facilities, systems, fleet, other equipment and technology;  

 · cash dividends; 

 29  

 · acquisitions compatible with our overall growth strategy;  

 · contributions to our various retirement plans; and 

 · debt repayments. 

 Any remaining cash generated from operations may be invested in high-quality, short-term instruments or applied toward the cost of the share repurchase program. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses, and our overall capital structure. Any transactions resulting from these evaluations may materially impact our liquidity, borrowing capacity, leverage ratios and capital availability.   

 We continue to generate substantial cash flows from operations and remain in a strong financial position, however our liquidity and capital resources can be influenced by economic trends and conditions. Uncertain economic conditions and uneven levels of consumer confidence and the resulting pressure on consumer disposable income have lowered our sales growth and our cash flows from operations. Product cost inflation has lowered our gross profit and cash flows from operations as we were unable to pass through all of the increased product costs with the same gross margin to our customers. We believe our mechanisms to manage working capital, such as credit monitoring, optimizing inventory levels and maximizing payment terms with vendors, and our mechanisms to manage product cost inflation have been sufficient to limit a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. We believe these mechanisms will continue prevent a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. At June 30, 2012, we had $688.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately 20% of which was held by our international subsidiaries generated from our earnings of international operations. If these earnings were transferred among countries or repatriated to the U.S., such amounts may be subject to additional tax obligations; however, we do not currently anticipate the need to relocate this cash.  

 We believe the following sources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months and beyond, while maintaining sufficient liquidity for normal operating purposes:  

 · our cash flows from operations;  

 · the availability of additional capital under our existing commercial paper programs, supported by our revolving credit facility, and bank lines of credit;  

 · our ability to access capital from financial markets, including issuances of debt securities, either privately or under our shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  

 Due to our strong financial position, we believe that we will continue to be able to effectively access the commercial paper market and long-term capital markets, if necessary. We believe our cash flows from operations will improve in fiscal 2013 due to benefits from our Business Transformation Project and initiatives to improve our working capital management.  

 Cash Flows  

 Operating Activities  

 Fiscal 2012 vs. Fiscal 2011  

 We generated $1.4 billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2012, as compared to $1.1 billion in fiscal 2011. The increase of $312.7 million between fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 was largely attributable to changes in working capital, a year-over-year reduction in tax payments and the redemption of some of our COLI policies. These increases were partially offset by the year-over-year impact of multiemployer withdrawal provisions and payments. These items are more fully described below.   

 Changes in working capital, specifically accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable, contributed $144.3 million to the increase in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. Both periods were affected by increases in accounts receivable and inventory, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable resulting primarily from inflation-driven increases in product cost and sales. However, fiscal 2012 was impacted by these items to a lesser extent due primarily to working capital improvements within accounts receivable and inventory and also less growth in average daily sales in the final month of fiscal 2012 as compared to the same period in fiscal 2011.   

 Tax payments were $135.2 million less in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011. The decrease in tax payments was partially due to the company being in a prepaid position at the end of fiscal 2011 in certain jurisdictions. In addition, various movements in taxable temporary differences caused estimated taxable income to be lower in fiscal 2012, requiring less tax payments in fiscal 2012 than in fiscal 2011. We made our final payments on a previous IRS tax settlement of $212 million in fiscal 2012. The completion of these settlement payments will have a positive impact on our cash flows in fiscal 2013.  

 We received approximately $75 million in cash from the one-time redemption during the period of some of our investments in COLI policies that we maintained to meet a portion of our obligations under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (SERP). This resulted in a positive impact to cash flow from operations in fiscal 2012 by decreasing other assets by $57.1 million. Those   

 30  

redeemed COLI policies were replaced by less volatile existing corporate-owned real estate assets as part of our plan to reduce the market-driven COLI impact on our earnings.  

 Multiemployer withdrawal provisions and payments had a negative impact of $53.3 million on the comparison of cash flow from operations in fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2011. The net impact of withdrawal provisions and payments was a cash outflow of $11.7 million in fiscal 2012, compared to a $41.5 million accrual in fiscal 2011.  

 Fiscal 2011 vs. Fiscal 2010  

 We generated $1.1 billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2011, as compared to $0.9 billion in fiscal 2010. The increase of $206.1 million between fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 was driven largely by a reduction in the amount of payments made in relation to the IRS settlement of $316.0 million and reduced pension contributions in the amount of $136.3 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. These increases were partially offset by changes in working capital discussed in more detail below.   

 Payments related to the IRS settlement were $212.0 million in fiscal 2011 and $528.0 million in fiscal 2010. See further discussion of the IRS settlement in Note 18, “Income Taxes” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.   

 Our contributions to our company-sponsored defined benefit plans were $161.7 million in fiscal 2011 and $297.9 million in fiscal 2010, respectively. Included in the $161.7 million of contributions in fiscal 2011 was a $140.0 million contribution to our Retirement Plan that would normally have been made in fiscal 2012. Included in the $297.9 million of contributions in fiscal 2010 was a $140.0 million contribution to our Retirement Plan that would normally have been made in fiscal 2011 and quarterly contributions totaling $140.0 million for fiscal 2010.   

 Changes in working capital, specifically accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable,  reduced cash flow from operations by $202.2 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010. The increases in accounts receivable and inventory balances in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 were primarily due to sales growth. An increase in daily sales outstanding also contributed to the increase in accounts receivable and inventory balances in fiscal 2011. The increase in accounts payable balances in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 was primarily from the growth in inventory resulting from sales growth.   

 Investing Activities  

 Fiscal 2012 capital expenditures included:  

 · replacement or significant expansion of facilities in San Diego, California; Boston, Massachusetts; Lincoln, Nebraska; Syracuse, New York and central Texas; 

 · construction of fold-out facilities in southern California and Long Island, New York;  

 · the continued remodeling of our shared services facility purchased in fiscal 2010; 

 · fleet replacements; and 

 · investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project. 

 Fiscal 2011 capital expenditures included:  

 · investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project; 

 · fleet replacements; 

 · replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and central Texas; 

 · the purchase of land for a fold-out facility in southern California; and 

 · the remodeling of our shared services facility purchased in fiscal 2010. 

 Fiscal 2010 capital expenditures included:  

 · investments in technology including our Business Transformation Project; 

 · fleet replacements; 

 · replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada; Billings, Montana; Plainfield, New Jersey; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Houston, Texas; 

 · the purchase of a facility for our future shared services operations in connection with our Business Transformation Project; and 

 · the purchase of land for a fold-out facility in Long Island, New York. 

 Capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 increased by $148.1 million primarily due to a greater number of new facilities and expansion projects underway this year. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 and 2011 for our Business Transformation Project were $146.2 million and $195.8 million, respectively.   

 31  

  We expect total capital expenditures in fiscal 2013 to be in the range of $600 million to $650 million. Fiscal 2013 expenditures will include facility, fleet and other equipment replacements and expansions; new facility construction, including fold-out facilities; and investments in technology.  

 During fiscal 2012, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $110.6 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2012 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2012, we acquired for cash broadline foodservice operations in Sacramento, California; Quebec, Canada; New Haven, Connecticut; Grand Rapids, Michigan; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Columbia, South Carolina and Spokane, Washington. In addition, Sysco acquired for cash a company that distributes specialty imported products headquartered in Chicago, Illinois.   

 During fiscal 2011, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $101.1 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2011 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2011, we acquired for cash broadline foodservice operations in central California; Los Angeles, California; Ontario, Canada; Lincoln, Nebraska; and Trenton, New Jersey.  

 During fiscal 2010, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $29.3 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2010 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2010, we acquired for cash a broadline foodservice operation in Syracuse, New York, a produce distributor in Atlanta, Georgia and a seafood distributor in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.   

 Financing Activities  

 Equity Transactions  

 Proceeds from common stock reissued from treasury for share-based compensation awards were $99.4 million in fiscal 2012, $332.7 million in fiscal 2011 and $94.8 million in fiscal 2010. The increase in proceeds in fiscal 2011 was due to an increase in the number of options exercised in fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2012 and 2010. The level of option exercises, and thus proceeds, will vary from period to period and is largely dependent on movements in our stock price.  

 We traditionally have engaged in Board-approved share repurchase programs. The number of shares acquired and their cost during the past three fiscal years were 10,000,000 shares for $272.3 million in fiscal 2012, 10,000,000 shares for $291.6 million in fiscal 2011 and 6,000,000 shares for $179.2 million in fiscal 2010. There were 75,200 additional shares repurchased through August 15, 2012, resulting in a remaining authorization by our Board of Directors to repurchase up to 23,311,400 shares, based on the trades made through that date. Our current share repurchase strategy is to purchase enough shares to keep our diluted average shares outstanding relatively constant. To achieve this goal, we believe we will not have to purchase as many shares in fiscal 2013 as were purchased in fiscal 2012.  

 We have made dividend payments to our shareholders in each fiscal year since our company inception over 40 years ago. We target a dividend payout of 40% to 50% of net earnings. We paid in excess of that range in fiscal 2012 primarily due to increased expenses from our Business Transformation Project. We believe as we realize benefits from this project, our dividend payout will return to this targeted range. Dividends paid were $622.9 million, or $1.06 per share, in fiscal 2012, $597.1 million, or $1.02 per share, in fiscal 2011 and $579.8 million, or $0.98 per share, in fiscal 2010. In May 2012, we declared our regular quarterly dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 of $0.27 per share, which was paid in July 2012.   

 In November 2000, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement covering 30,000,000 shares of common stock to be offered from time to time in connection with acquisitions. As of August 15, 2012, 29,477,835 shares remained available for issuance under this registration statement.  

 Debt Activity and Borrowing Availability  

 Short-term Borrowings   

 We have uncommitted bank lines of credit, which provided for unsecured borrowings for working capital of up to $95.0 million, of which none was outstanding as of June 30, 2012 or August 15, 2012.  

 Our Irish subsidiary, Pallas Foods Limited, has a €10.0 million (Euro) committed facility for unsecured borrowings for working capital. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility as of June 30, 2012 or August 15, 2012.   

 On June 30, 2011, a Canadian subsidiary of Sysco entered into a short-term demand loan facility for the purpose of facilitating a distribution from the Canadian subsidiary to Sysco, and Sysco concurrently entered into an agreement with the bank to guarantee the loan. The amount borrowed was $182.0 million and was repaid in full on July 4, 2011.  

 32  

 Commercial Paper and Revolving Credit Facility  

 We have a Board-approved commercial paper program allowing us to issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.3 billion.   

 In December 2011, we terminated our previously existing revolving credit facility that supported the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs. At the same time, Sysco and one of its subsidiaries, Sysco International, ULC, entered into a new $1.0 billion credit facility supporting the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs. This facility provides for borrowings in both U.S. and Canadian dollars. Borrowings by Sysco International, ULC under the credit agreement are guaranteed by Sysco, and borrowings by Sysco and Sysco International, ULC under the credit agreement and guaranteed by all the wholly-owned subsidiaries of Sysco that are guarantors of the company’s senior notes and debentures. The facility expires on December 29, 2016, but is subject to extension.  

 There were no commercial paper issuances outstanding as of June 30, 2012 or August 15, 2012. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, aggregate outstanding commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings ranged from approximately zero to $563.1 million, zero to $330.3 million, and zero to $1.8 million, respectively. During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, our aggregate commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings had a weighted average interest rate of 0.16%, 0.25% and 0.80%, respectively.  

 Fixed Rate Debt  

 Included in current maturities of long-term debt as June 30, 2012 are the 4.2% senior notes totaling $250.0 million, which mature in February 2013. It is our intention to fund the repayment of these notes at maturity through cash on hand, cash flow from operations, issuances of commercial paper, senior notes or a combination thereof.  

 In September 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $200.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 to floating rate debt. In October 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $250.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013 to floating rate debt. Both transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and increasing floating interest rate exposure. These transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates.   

 In February 2012, we filed with the SEC an automatically effective well-known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and guarantees of debt securities that may be issued from time to time.  

 In June 2012, we repaid the 6.1% senior notes totaling $200.0 million at maturity utilizing a combination of cash flow from operations and commercial paper issuances.  

 In May 2012, we entered into an agreement with a notional amount of $200.0 million to lock in a component of the interest rate on our then forecasted debt offering. We designated this derivative as a cash flow hedge of the variability in the cash outflows of interest payments on a portion of the then forecasted June 2012 debt issuance due to changes in the benchmark interest rate. In June 2012, in conjunction with the issuance of the $450.0 million senior notes maturing in fiscal 2022, we settled the treasury lock, locking in the effective yields on the related debt. Upon settlement, we received cash of $0.7 million, which represented the fair value of the swap agreement at the time of settlement. This amount is being amortized as an offset to interest expense over the 10-year term of the debt, and the unamortized balance is reflected as a gain, net of tax, Accumulated other comprehensive loss.  

 In June 2012, we issued 0.55% senior notes totaling $300.0 million due June 12, 2015 (the 2015 notes) and 2.6% senior notes totaling $450.0 million due June 12, 2022 (the 2022 notes) under its February 2012 shelf registration. The 2015 and 2022 notes, which were priced at 99.319% and 98.722% of par, respectively, are unsecured, are not subject to any sinking fund requirement and include a redemption provision which allows Sysco to retire the notes at any time prior to maturity at the greater of par plus accrued interest or an amount designed to ensure that the note holders are not penalized by early redemption. Proceeds from the notes will be utilized over a period of time for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions, refinancing of debt, working capital, share repurchases and capital expenditures.  

 Total Debt  

 Total debt as of June 30, 2012 was $3.0 billion of which approximately 84% was at fixed rates with a weighted average of 4.7% and an average life of 13 years, and the remainder was at floating rates with a weighted average of 2.3% and an average life of one year. Certain loan agreements contain typical debt covenants to protect note holders, including provisions to maintain the company’s long-term debt to total capital ratio below a specified level. We are currently in compliance with all debt covenants.  

 33  

 Other  

 As part of normal business activities, we issue letters of credit through major banking institutions as required by certain vendor and insurance agreements. In addition, in connection with our audits in certain tax jurisdictions, we have posted of letters of credit in order to proceed to the appeals process. As of June 30, 2012 and July 2, 2011, letters of credit outstanding were $29.8 million and $23.0 million, respectively.  

 Other Considerations - Multiemployer Pension Plans  

 As discussed in Note 14, “Multiemployer Employee Benefit Plans”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, we contribute to several multiemployer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees.   

 Under certain circumstances, including our voluntary withdrawal or a mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from certain underfunded plans, we would be required to make payments to the plans for our proportionate share of the multiemployer plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. We believe that one of the above-mentioned events is reasonably possible with certain plans in which we participate and estimate our share of withdrawal liability for these plans could have been as much as $100.0 million as of June 30, 2012 and August 15, 2012. This estimate excludes plans for which we have recorded withdrawal liabilities or where the likelihood of the above-mentioned events is deemed remote. Due to the lack of current information, we believe our current share of the withdrawal liability could materially differ from this estimate.   

 Required contributions to multiemployer plans could increase in the future as these plans strive to improve their funding levels. In addition, pension-related legislation in the United States requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. We believe that any unforeseen requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability and excise taxes would be funded through cash flow from operations, borrowing capacity or a combination of these items.   

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.  

 Contractual Obligations   

 The following table sets forth, as of June 30, 2012, certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make contractual future payments:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)The estimate of the timing of future payments under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan involves the use of certain assumptions, including retirement ages and payout periods.   

 (2)Includes estimated contributions to the unfunded SERP and other postretirement benefit plans made in amounts needed to fund benefit payments for vested participants in these plans through fiscal 2022, based on actuarial assumptions.  

 34  

(3)Represents voluntary withdrawal liabilities recorded and excludes normal contributions required under our collective bargaining agreements.  

  (4) Unrecognized tax benefits relate to uncertain tax positions recorded under accounting standards related to uncertain tax positions. As of June 30, 2012, we had a liability of $52.2 million for unrecognized tax benefits for all tax jurisdictions and $27.9 million for related interest that could result in cash payment. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of non-current payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time. Accordingly, the related non-current balances have not been reflected in the "Payments Due by Period" section of the table.   

 (5)Includes payments on floating rate debt based on rates as of June 30, 2012, assuming amount remains unchanged until maturity, and payments on fixed rate debt based on maturity dates. The impact of our outstanding fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps on the fixed rate debt interest payments is included as well based on the floating rates in effect as of June 30, 2012.  

 (6) Provides the estimated minimum contribution to the Retirement Plan through fiscal 2022 to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements under the assumption that we only make minimum funding requirement contributions each year, based on actuarial assumptions.   

 (7)For purposes of this table, purchase obligations include agreements for purchases of product in the normal course of business, for which all significant terms have been confirmed, including minimum quantities resulting from our sourcing initiative. Such amounts included in the table above are based on estimates. Purchase obligations also includes amounts committed with a third party to provide hardware and hardware hosting services over a ten-year period ending in fiscal 2015 (See discussion under Note 20, “Commitments and Contingencies”, to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8), fixed electricity agreements and fixed fuel purchase commitments. Purchase obligations exclude full requirements electricity contracts where no stated minimum purchase volume is required.  

 Certain acquisitions involve contingent consideration, typically payable only in the event that certain operating results are attained or certain outstanding contingencies are resolved. Aggregate contingent consideration amounts outstanding as of June 30, 2012 included $66.1 million. This amount is not included in the table above.  

 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses in the accompanying financial statements. Significant accounting policies employed by Sysco are presented in the notes to the financial statements.  

 Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations. These policies require our most subjective or complex judgments, often employing the use of estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We have reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors the development and selection of the critical accounting policies and estimates and this related disclosure. Our most critical accounting policies and estimates pertain to the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, self-insurance programs, company-sponsored pension plans, income taxes, vendor consideration, goodwill and intangible assets and share-based compensation.  

 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

 We evaluate the collectability of accounts receivable and determine the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts based on a combination of factors. We utilize specific criteria to determine uncollectible receivables to be written off, including whether a customer has filed for or has been placed in bankruptcy, has had accounts referred to outside parties for collection or has had accounts past due over specified periods. Allowances are recorded for all other receivables based on analysis of historical trends of write-offs and recoveries. In addition, in circumstances where we are aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligation, a specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to reduce the receivable to the net amount reasonably expected to be collected. Our judgment is required as to the impact of certain of these items and other factors as to ultimate realization of our accounts receivable. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, additional allowances may be required.  

 Self-Insurance Program  

 We maintain a self-insurance program covering portions of workers’ compensation, general liability and vehicle liability costs. The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers. We also maintain a fully self-insured group medical program. Liabilities associated with these risks are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, medical cost trends, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Projections of future loss expenses are inherently uncertain because of the random nature of insurance claims occurrences and could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. In an attempt to mitigate the risks of workers’ compensation, vehicle and general liability claims, safety procedures and awareness programs have been implemented.  

 35  

Company-Sponsored Pension Plans  

 Amounts related to defined benefit plans recognized in the financial statements are determined on an actuarial basis. Three of the more critical assumptions in the actuarial calculations are the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits, the assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation levels and the expected rate of return on plan assets.  

 For guidance in determining the discount rates, we calculate the implied rate of return on a hypothetical portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximates the estimated payouts of the pension plan. The discount rate assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2012 net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the July 2, 2011 measurement date, decreased 21 basis points to 5.94%. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2012 net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the July 2, 2011 measurement date, decreased 42 basis points to 5.93%. The combined effect of these discount rate changes increased our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2012 by an estimated $14.3 million. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2013 net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the June 30, 2012 measurement date, decreased 113 basis points to 4.81%. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2013 net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the June 30, 2012 measurement date, decreased 104 basis points to 4.89%. The combined effect of these discount rate changes will increase our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2013 by an estimated $84.1 million. A 100 basis point increase in the discount rates for fiscal 2013 would decrease Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension cost by $41.9 million, while a 100 basis point decrease in the discount rates would increase pension cost by $50.6 million. The impact of a 100 basis point increase in the discount rates differs from the impact of a 100 basis point decrease in discount rates because the liabilities are less sensitive to change at higher discount rates. Therefore, a 100 basis point increase in the discount rate will not generate the same magnitude of change as a 100 basis point decrease in the discount rate.   

 We look to actual plan experience in determining the rates of increase in compensation levels. We used a plan specific age-related set of rates for the Retirement Plan, which are equivalent to a single rate of 5.30% as of June 30, 2012 and July 2, 2011. For determining the benefit obligations as of June 30, 2012 and July 2, 2011, the SERP calculations use an age-graded salary growth assumption.   

 The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan was 7.75% for fiscal 2012 and 8.00% for fiscal 2011. The expectations of future returns are derived from a mathematical asset model that incorporates assumptions as to the various asset class returns, reflecting a combination of historical performance analysis and the forward-looking views of the financial markets regarding the yield on bonds, historical returns of the major stock markets and returns on alternative investments. Although not determinative of future returns, the effective annual rate of return on plan assets, developed using geometric/compound averaging, was approximately 7.0%, 4.2%, 1.6%, and -0.2%, over the 20-year, 10-year, 5-year and 1-year periods ended December 31, 2011, respectively. In addition, in eight of the last 15 years, the actual return on plan assets has exceeded 10%. The rate of return assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.  

 The expected return on plan assets impacts the recorded amount of net pension costs. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan is 7.75% for fiscal 2013. A 100 basis point increase (decrease) in the assumed rate of return for fiscal 2013 would decrease (increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension costs for fiscal 2013 by approximately $22.1 million.  

 Pension accounting standards require the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans in the statement of financial position, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of June 30, 2012 was a charge, net of tax, of $823.9 million. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of July 2, 2011 was a charge, net of tax, of $501.1 million.  

 Changes in the assumptions, including changes to the discount rate discussed above, together with the normal growth of the plans, the impact of actuarial losses from prior periods, the impact of plan amendments and the timing and amount of contributions decreased net company-sponsored pension costs by $27.3 million in fiscal 2012. At the end of fiscal 2012, Sysco decided to freeze future benefit accruals under the Retirement Plan as of December 31, 2012 for all U.S.-based salaried and non-union hourly employees. Effective January 1, 2013, these employees will be eligible for additional contributions under an enhanced, defined contribution plan. Changes in the assumptions, including changes to the discount rate discussed above, together with the plan freeze, the impact of actuarial losses from prior periods, the impact of plan amendments and the timing and amount of contributions are expected to decrease net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2013 by approximately $26.5 million.  Absent the Retirement Plan freeze discussed above, net company-sponsored pension costs in fiscal 2013 would have increased $106.9 million instead of decreasing $26.5 million.   

 We made cash contributions to our company-sponsored pension plans of $162.4 million and $161.7 million in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. The $140.0 million contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2012 exceeded the minimum required contribution for the calendar 2011 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements. The $140.0 million contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2011 was voluntary, as there was no minimum required contribution for the calendar 2010 plan year. There   

 36  

are no required contributions to the Retirement Plan to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements in fiscal 2013. The estimated fiscal 2013 contributions to fund benefit payments for the SERP plan are approximately $23 million.  

 Income Taxes  

 The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state, as well as foreign jurisdictions. Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items, accruals or adjustments of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits or valuation allowances, and our change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate.  

 Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. We believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable; however, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or pay amounts in excess of recorded liabilities, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement generally would require use of our cash and may result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. A favorable tax settlement may be recognized as a reduction in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution.  

 Vendor Consideration   

 We recognize consideration received from vendors when the services performed in connection with the monies received are completed and when the related product has been sold by Sysco. There are several types of cash consideration received from vendors. In many instances, the vendor consideration is in the form of a specified amount per case or per pound. In these instances, we will recognize the vendor consideration as a reduction of cost of sales when the product is sold. In some instances, vendor consideration is received upon receipt of inventory in our distribution facilities. We estimate the amount needed to reduce our inventory based on inventory turns until the product is sold. Our inventory turnover is usually less than one month; therefore, amounts deferred against inventory do not require long-term estimation. In the situations where the vendor consideration is not related directly to specific product purchases, we will recognize these as a reduction of cost of sales when the earnings process is complete, the related service is performed and the amounts realized. Historically, adjustments to our estimates related to vendor consideration have not been significant.   

 Goodwill and Intangible Assets  

 Goodwill and intangible assets represent the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired. Certain assumptions and estimates are employed in determining the fair value of assets acquired, including goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as determining the allocation of goodwill to the appropriate reporting unit.   

 In addition, annually in our fourth quarter or more frequently as needed, we assess the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles by determining whether the fair values of the applicable reporting units exceed the carrying values of these assets. The reporting units used in assessing goodwill impairment are our nine operating segments as described in Note 21, “Business Segment Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The components within each of our nine operating segments have similar economic characteristics and therefore are aggregated into nine reporting units.   

 We arrive at our estimates of fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow and earnings multiple models. The results from each of these models are then weighted and combined into a single estimate of fair value for each of our nine operating segments. We use a 60% weighting for our discounted cash flow valuation and 40% for the earnings multiple models giving greater emphasis to our discounted cash flow model because the forecasted operating results that serve as a basis for the analysis incorporate management’s outlook and anticipated changes for the businesses. The primary assumptions used in these various models include estimated earnings multiples of comparable acquisitions in the industry including control premiums, earnings multiples on acquisitions completed by Sysco in the past, future cash flow estimates of the reporting units, which are dependent on internal forecasts and projected growth rates, and weighted average cost of capital, along with working capital and capital expenditure requirements. When possible, we use observable market inputs in our models to arrive at the fair values of our reporting units. We update our projections used in our discounted cash flow model based on historical performance and changing business conditions for each of our reporting units.   

 Our estimates of fair value contain uncertainties requiring management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. Actual results could differ from these assumptions and projections, resulting in the company revising its assumptions and, if required, recognizing an impairment loss. There were no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles recorded as a result of assessment in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010. Our past estimates of fair value for fiscal 2011 and 2010 have not been materially different when revised to include subsequent years’ actual results. Sysco has not made any material changes in its impairment assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe the estimates used in the analysis are reasonably likely to change materially in the future but we will continue to assess the   

 37  

estimates in the future based on the expectations of the reporting units. In the fiscal 2012 analysis our estimates of fair value did not require additional analysis; however, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for the following reporting units if our estimates of fair value were decreased by the following amounts. First, our European Broadline company would have required additional analysis if the estimated fair value had been 45% lower. Second, our specialty produce operations would have required additional analysis if the estimated fair value had been 38% lower. At June 30, 2012, these two reporting units had goodwill aggregating $316.9 million. For the remainder of our reporting units which at June 30, 2012 had goodwill aggregating $1.3 billion, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for a reporting unit if the estimated fair value for any of these reporting units had declined by greater than 50%.   

 Certain reporting units (European Broadline, specialty produce, custom-cut meat, lodging industry products, imported specialty products and international distribution operations) have a greater proportion of goodwill recorded to estimated fair value as compared to the United States Broadline, Canadian Broadline or SYGMA reporting units. This is primarily due to these businesses having been recently acquired, and as a result there has been less history of organic growth than in the United States Broadline, Canadian Broadline and SYGMA reporting units. In addition, these businesses also have lower levels of cash flow than the United States Broadline reporting units. As such, these reporting units have a greater risk of future impairment if their operations were to suffer a significant downturn.   

 Share-Based Compensation  

 We provide compensation benefits to employees and non-employee directors under several share-based payment arrangements including various employee stock incentive plans, the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan, the Management Incentive Plan and various non-employee director plans.  

 As of June 30, 2012, there was $63.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.36 years.  

 The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of Sysco’s stock, implied volatilities from traded options on Sysco’s stock and other factors. We utilize historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model; separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. Expected dividend yield is estimated based on the historical pattern of dividends and the average stock price for the year preceding the option grant. The risk-free rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.  

 The fair value of each restricted stock unit award granted with a dividend equivalent is based on the company’s stock price as of the date of grant. For restricted stock units granted without dividend equivalents, the fair value is reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period.  

 The fair value of the stock issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan is calculated as the difference between the stock price and the employee purchase price.   

 The fair value of restricted stock granted to employees is based on the stock price on grant date. The application of a discount to the fair value of a restricted stock grant is dependent upon whether or not each individual grant contains a post-vesting restriction.   

 The compensation cost related to these share-based awards is recognized over the requisite service period. The requisite service period is generally the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The compensation cost related to stock issuances resulting from employee purchases of stock under the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan is recognized during the quarter in which the employee payroll withholdings are made.  

 Our share-based awards are generally subject to graded vesting over a service period. We will recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.   

 In addition, certain of our share-based awards provide that the awards continue to vest as if the award holder continued to be an employee or director if the award holder meets certain age and years of service thresholds upon retirement. In these cases, we will recognize compensation cost for such awards over the period from the grant date to the date the employee or director first becomes eligible to retire with the options continuing to vest after retirement.   

 Our option grants include options that qualify as incentive stock options for income tax purposes. In the period the compensation cost related to incentive stock options is recorded, a corresponding tax benefit is not recorded as it is assumed that we will not receive a tax deduction related to such incentive stock options. We may be eligible for tax deductions in subsequent periods to the extent that there is a disqualifying disposition of the incentive stock option. In such cases, we would record a tax benefit related to the tax deduction in an amount not to exceed the corresponding cumulative compensation cost recorded in the financial statements on the particular options multiplied by the statutory tax rate.  

 38  

Forward-Looking Statements   

 Certain statements made herein that look forward in time or express management’s expectations or beliefs with respect to the occurrence of future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. They include statements about Sysco’s ability to increase its sales and market share and grow earnings, the continuing impact of economic conditions on consumer confidence and our business, sales and expense trends, including expectations regarding pay-related expense defined contribution plan costs and pension costs, anticipated multiemployer pension related liabilities and contributions to various multiemployer pension plans, expectations regarding potential payments of unrecognized tax benefits and interest, expectations regarding share repurchases, dividend payments, expected trends in fuel pricing, usage costs and surcharges, our expectation regarding the provision for losses on accounts receivable, expected implementation, costs and benefits of the ERP system, estimated expenses and capital expenditures related to our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2013, beliefs regarding future ERP conversions at our operating companies, expectations regarding our other Business Transformation initiatives including cost transformation and product cost reduction initiatives, beliefs regarding the timeline for the realization of benefits from each of our initiatives within our Business Transformation Project, our plan to continue to explore and identify opportunities to grow in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business, the impact of ongoing legal proceedings, the loss of SYGMA’s largest customer not having a material adverse effect on Sysco as a whole, compliance with laws and government regulations not having a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position, anticipated acquisitions and capital expenditures and the sources of financing for them, continued competitive advantages and positive results from strategic initiatives, anticipated company-sponsored pension plan liabilities, our expectations regarding cash flow from operations, our intentions regarding the repayment of debt, the impact of initiatives to improve working capital, the availability and adequacy of insurance to cover liabilities, predictions regarding the impact of changes in estimates used in impairment analyses, expectations regarding the cost of hardware and hardware hosting services, the anticipated impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and Sysco’s ability to meet future cash requirements and remain profitable.  

 These statements are based on management’s current expectations and estimates; actual results may differ materially due in part to the risk factors discussed at Item 1.A. in the Annual Report on Form 10-K and elsewhere. In addition, the success of Sysco’s strategic initiatives could be affected by conditions in the economy and the industry and internal factors such as the ability to control expenses, including fuel costs. Expected trends related to fuel costs and usage are impacted by fluctuations in the economy generally and numerous factors affecting the oil industry that are beyond our control. Our efforts to lower our cost of goods sold may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including actions by our competitors and/or customers. We have experienced delays in the implementation of our Business Transformation Project and the expected costs of our Business Transformation Project may be greater or less than currently expected, as we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages, or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation process. As implementation of the ERP system and other initiatives within the Business Transformation Project begins, there may be changes in design or timing that impact near-term expense and cause us to revise the project calendar and budget, and additional hiring and training of employees and consultants may be required, which could also impact project expense and timing. Our Business Transformation Project initiatives related to ERP implementation, cost transformation and produce cost reduction may not provide the expected benefits or cost savings in a timely fashion, if at all. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our cost cutting efforts, we could become cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness and our profitability could decrease. Defined contribution plan costs are impacted by the number of employees participating in the plan and the level of contributions made by each employee. Company-sponsored pension plan liabilities are impacted by a number of factors including the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits, the assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation levels and the expected rate of return on plan assets. The amount of shares repurchased in a given period is subject to a number of factors, including available cash and our general working capital needs at the time. Meeting our dividend target objectives depends on our level of earnings. Our plans with respect to growth in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business are subject to the company’s other strategic initiatives and plans and economic conditions generally. Legal proceedings are impacted by events, circumstances and individuals beyond the control of Sysco. The need for additional borrowing or other capital is impacted by factors that include capital expenditures or acquisitions in excess of those currently anticipated, stock repurchases at historical levels, or other unexpected cash requirements. Plans regarding the repayment of debt are subject to change at any time based on management’s assessment of the overall needs of the company. The anticipated impact of compliance with laws and regulations also involves the risk that estimates may turn out to be materially incorrect, and laws and regulations, as well as methods of enforcement, are subject to change.  

 39  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk