PART I   

  ITEM 1.    Business    

 Unless this Form 10-K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Sysco,” or “the company” as used in this Form 10-K refer to Sysco Corporation together with its consolidated subsidiaries and divisions.  

 Overview  

 Sysco Corporation, acting through its subsidiaries and divisions, is the largest North American distributor of food and related products primarily to the foodservice or food-away-from-home industry. We provide products and related services to approximately 400,000 customers, including restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers.  

 Founded in 1969, Sysco commenced operations as a public company in March 1970 when the stockholders of nine companies exchanged their stock for Sysco common stock. Since our formation, we have grown from $115.0 million to $39.3 billion in annual sales, both through internal expansion of existing operations and through acquisitions.  

 Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 2, 2011 for fiscal 2011, a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for fiscal 2010 and a 52-week year ending June 27, 2009 for 2009.  

 Sysco Corporation is organized under the laws of Delaware. The address and telephone number of our executive offices are 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099, (281) 584-1390. This annual report on Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed or furnished by Sysco pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on Sysco’s website at www.sysco.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

 Operating Segments  

 Sysco provides food and related products to the foodservice or food-away-from-home industry. Under the accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise, we have aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined by accounting standards. Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to their customers. SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to chain restaurant customer locations. Our other segments include our specialty produce and lodging industry products segments and a company that distributes to international customers. Specialty produce companies distribute fresh produce and, on a limited basis, other foodservice products. Our lodging industry products company distributes personal care guest amenities, equipment, housekeeping supplies, room accessories and textiles to the lodging industry. Selected financial data for each of our reportable segments as well as financial information concerning geographic areas can be found in Note 19, “Business Segment Information,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  

 Customers and Products  

 Sysco’s customers in the foodservice industry include restaurants, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and other similar venues where foodservice products are served. Services to our customers are supported by similar physical facilities, vehicles, material handling equipment and techniques, and administrative and operating staffs.  

 The products we distribute include:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We also supply a wide variety of non-food items, including:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 1   
 A comparison of the sales mix in the principal product categories during the last three years is presented below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Sales are less than 1% of total   

 Our operating companies distribute nationally-branded merchandise, as well as products packaged under our private brands. Products packaged under our private brands have been manufactured for Sysco according to specifications that have been developed by our quality assurance team. In addition, our quality assurance team certifies the manufacturing and processing plants where these products are packaged, enforces our quality control standards and identifies supply sources that satisfy our requirements.  

 We believe that prompt and accurate delivery of orders, competitive pricing, close contact with customers and the ability to provide a full array of products and services to assist customers in their foodservice operations are of primary importance in the marketing and distribution of foodservice products to our customers. Our operating companies offer daily delivery to certain customer locations and have the capability of delivering special orders on short notice. Through our approximately 13,500 sales and marketing representatives and support staff of Sysco and our operating companies, we stay informed of the needs of our customers and acquaint them with new products and services. Our operating companies also provide ancillary services relating to foodservice distribution, such as providing customers with product usage reports and other data, menu-planning advice, food safety training and assistance in inventory control, as well as access to various third party services designed to add value to our customers’ businesses.  

 No single customer accounted for 10% or more of Sysco’s total sales for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2011.  

 Based upon available information, we estimate that sales by type of customer during the past three fiscal years were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Sources of Supply  

 We purchase from thousands of suppliers, both domestic and international, none of which individually accounts for more than 10% of our purchases. These suppliers consist generally of large corporations selling brand name and private label merchandise, as well as independent regional brand and private label processors and packers. Purchasing is generally carried out through both centrally developed purchasing programs and direct purchasing programs established by our various operating companies.  

 We administer a consolidated product procurement program designed to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products. The program covers the purchasing and marketing of Sysco Brand merchandise as well as products from a number of national brand suppliers, encompassing substantially all product lines. Sysco’s operating companies purchase product from the suppliers participating in these consolidated programs and from other suppliers, although Sysco Brand products are only available to the operating companies through these consolidated programs. We also focus on increasing profitability by lowering operating costs and by lowering aggregate inventory levels, which reduces future facility expansion needs at our broadline operating companies, while providing greater value to our suppliers and customers. This includes the construction and operation of regional distribution centers (RDCs), which aggregate inventory demand to optimize the supply chain activities for certain products for all Sysco broadline operating companies in the region. Currently, we have two RDCs in operation in Virginia and Florida and will begin construction on a third RDC in fiscal 2012 in Indiana.  

 Working Capital Practices  

 Our growth is funded through a combination of cash flow from operations, commercial paper issuances and long-term borrowings. See the discussion in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources” at Item 7 regarding our liquidity, financial position and sources and uses of funds.   

 2   
 Credit terms we extend to our customers can vary from cash on delivery to 30 days or more based on our assessment of each customer’s credit worthiness. We monitor each customer’s account and will suspend shipments if necessary.  

 A majority of our sales orders are filled within 24 hours of when customer orders are placed. We generally maintain inventory on hand to be able to meet customer demand. The level of inventory on hand will vary by product depending on shelf-life, supplier order fulfillment lead times and customer demand. We also make purchases of additional volumes of certain products based on supply or pricing opportunities.  

 We take advantage of suppliers’ cash discounts where appropriate and otherwise generally receive payment terms from our suppliers ranging from weekly to 30 days or more.  

 Corporate Headquarters And Shared Services Center  

 Our corporate staff makes available a number of services to our operating companies. Members of the corporate staff possess experience and expertise in, among other areas, accounting and finance, treasury, legal, cash management, information technology, employee benefits, engineering, real estate and construction, risk management and insurance, sales and marketing, payroll, human resources, training and development, strategy, and tax compliance services. The corporate office also makes available warehousing and distribution services, which provide assistance in operational best practices including space utilization, energy conservation, fleet management and work flow.  

 We are in the early stages of implementing a shared services center that will perform support services for employees, suppliers and customers, payroll administration, human resources, customer and vendor contract administration, financial services such as vendor payments, invoicing, cash application, certain credit services, accounting and sales and use tax administration, procurement and maintenance support and sales support for our operating companies.  

 Capital Improvements  

 To maximize productivity and customer service, we continue to modernize, expand and construct new distribution facilities. During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately $636.4 million, $594.6 million and $464.6 million respectively, were invested in technology, facilities, delivery fleet and other capital asset enhancements. We estimate our capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 should be in the range of $750 million to $800 million. During the three years ended July 2, 2011, capital expenditures were financed primarily by internally generated funds, our commercial paper program and bank and other borrowings. We expect to finance our fiscal 2012 capital expenditures from the same sources.  

 We are undertaking a multi-year Business Transformation Project, pursuant to which we are developing and implementing an integrated software system to support a majority of our businesses and further streamline our operations. These systems are commonly referred to as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems. Approximately $100 million to $120 million of the fiscal 2012 estimated capital expenditures are related to the Business Transformation Project.  

 Employees  

 As of July 2, 2011, we had approximately 46,000 full-time employees, approximately 17% of whom were represented by unions, primarily the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. Contract negotiations are handled by each individual operating company. Approximately 25% of our union employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements which have expired or will expire during fiscal 2012 and are subject to renegotiation. Since July 2, 2011, two contracts covering 85 of such employees have been renegotiated. We consider our labor relations to be satisfactory.  

 Competition  

 Industry sources estimate that there are more than 15,000 companies engaged in foodservice distribution in the United States. Our customers may also choose to purchase products directly from retail outlets or negotiate prices directly with our suppliers. While we compete primarily with local and regional distributors, a few organizations compete with us on a national basis. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the foodservice industry are effective customer contacts, the ability to deliver a wide range of quality products and related services on a timely and dependable basis and competitive prices. An additional competitive factor for our larger chain restaurant customers is the ability to provide a national distribution network. We consider our primary market to be the foodservice market in the United States and Canada and estimate that we serve about 17% of this approximately $220 billion annual market. We believe, based upon industry trade data, that our sales to the United States and Canada food-away-from-home industry were the highest of any foodservice distributor during fiscal 2011. While adequate industry statistics are not available, we believe that in most instances our local operations are among the leading distributors of food and related non-food products to foodservice customers in their respective trading areas. We believe our competitive advantages include our more than 8,000 marketing associates, our diversified product base, which includes a differentiated group of high quality Sysco brand products, the diversity in the types of customers we serve, our economies of scale and our wide geographic presence in the United States and Canada, which mitigates some of the impact of regional economic declines that may occur over time and provides a national distribution network for larger chain restaurant customers. We believe our liquidity and access to capital provides us the ability to continuously invest in business improvements. We are the only publicly-traded distributor in the food-away-from-home industry in the United States. While our public company status provides us with some advantages, including access to capital, we believe it also provides us with some disadvantages that our competitors do not have in terms of additional costs related to complying with regulatory requirements.   

 3   
 Government Regulation  

 As a marketer and distributor of food products, we are subject to the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), as well as the Canadian Food and Drugs Act and the regulations thereunder.  

 The FDA regulates food safety through various statutory and regulatory mandates, including manufacturing and holding requirements for foods through good manufacturing practice regulations, hazard analysis and critical control point (HACCP) requirements for certain foods, and the food and color additive approval process. The agency also specifies the standards of identity for certain foods, prescribes the format and content of information required to appear on food product labels, regulates food contact packaging and materials, and maintains a Reportable Food Registry for the industry to report when there is a reasonable probability that an article of food will cause serious adverse health consequences. For certain product lines, we are also subject to the Federal Meat Inspection Act, the Poultry Products Inspection Act, the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, the Packers and Stockyard Act and regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to interpret and implement these statutory provisions. The USDA imposes standards for product safety, quality and sanitation through the federal meat and poultry inspection program. The USDA reviews and approves the labeling of these products and also establishes standards for the grading and commercial acceptance of produce shipments from our suppliers. We are also subject to the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which imposes certain registration and record keeping requirements on facilities that manufacture, process, pack or hold food for human or animal consumption.  

 In Canada, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency administers and enforces the food safety and nutritional quality standards established by Health Canada under the Canadian Food and Drugs Act and under other related federal legislation, including the Canada Agricultural Products Act, the Meat Inspection Act, the Fish Inspection Act and the Consumer Packaging and Labeling Act (as it relates to food). These laws regulate the processing, storing, grading, packaging, marking, transporting and inspection of certain Sysco product lines as well as the packaging, labeling, sale, importation and advertising of pre-packaged and certain other products.  

 We and our products are also subject to state, provincial and local regulation through such measures as the licensing of our facilities; enforcement by state, provincial and local health agencies of state, provincial and local standards for our products; and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of our products. Our facilities are subject to inspections and regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act by the U.S. Department of Labor, together with similar occupational health and safety laws in each Canadian province. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing, health and safety standards to protect our employees from accidents and to establish hazard communication programs to transmit information on the hazards of certain chemicals present in products we distribute.  

 We are also subject to regulation by numerous U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Department of Labor and each Canadian provincial ministry of labour, which set employment practice standards for workers, and the U.S. Department of Transportation and the Canadian Transportation Agency, which regulate transportation of perishable and hazardous materials and waste, and similar state, provincial and local agencies.  

 Most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products which are subject to laws regulating such systems and storage tanks. Although we are subject to other U.S. and Canadian federal, state, provincial and local provisions relating to the protection of the environment or the discharge of materials, these provisions do not materially impact the use or operation of our facilities.  

 Compliance with these laws has not had, and is not anticipated to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.  

 General  

 We have numerous trademarks that are of significant importance, including the SYSCO® trademark and our privately-branded product trademarks that include the SYSCO® trademark. These trademarks and the private brands on which they are used are widely recognized within the foodservice industry. Approximately half of our privately-branded sales are from products labeled with our SYSCO® trademark without any other trademark. We believe the loss of the SYSCO® trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our U.S. trademarks are effective for a ten year period and the company generally renews its trademarks before their expiration dates unless a particular trademark is no longer in use. The company does not have any material patents or licenses.  

 We are not engaged in material research and development activities relating to the development of new products or the improvement of existing products.  

 Our sales do not generally fluctuate significantly on a seasonal basis; therefore, the business of the company is not deemed to be seasonal.  

 As of July 2, 2011, we operated 177 distribution facilities throughout the United States, Canada and Ireland.   

 4   
  Item 1A.    Risk Factors