Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions)

General

Net sales for 2014 increased 3.5% in comparison to 2013. The increase was the result of strong organic volume growth along with the benefit of fold-in acquisitions, which was partially offset by changes in test and payer mix. Total test volume (measured by number of requisitions) increased 5.3% year over year, and year over year revenue per requisition decreased 1.7% of which 0.4% was due to foreign currency translation with the remainder due to changes in test and payer mix. 

During 2014 and 2013, the impact of weather reduced the Company's revenues by an estimated $40.0 and $12.7, respectively. 

 The Company has seen growth in the amount of its patient accounts receivable. A significant portion of the Company’s bad debt expense is related to accounts receivable from patients. The Company believes its current allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to properly record its accounts receivable at their estimated net realizable value. Should the shift towards increased patient responsibility continue, the Company may need to increase its allowance for doubtful accounts and bad debt expense in future periods.

On February, 19. 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of Covance Inc. (“Covance”), a leading drug development services company and a leader in nutritional analysis, for approximately $6,200.0. In connection with the transaction, the Company secured permanent financing, including a $1,000.0 5 year term loan and $2,900.0 in long term bonds, ranging from 5 years to 30 years. The weighted average interest rate on the $3,900.0 of long-term debt is approximately 3.15%, while the average maturity is approximately 12 years. As a result, the Company anticipates a significant increase in the total debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio for the combined company. In addition, the Company issued approximately 15.3 million shares of the Company's common stock to the Covance shareholders. The Company expects to maintain an investment grade credit profile and intends to utilize its free cash flow to pay down debt and make small "fold-in" acquisitions. 

 Covance 2014 net revenues were approximately $2,500.0 and operating income margin was approximately 9.3%. Approximately 52.0% of Covance's net revenues are billed in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, with the Swiss franc, British pound, and the Euro representing approximately 70.0% of Covance's total foreign currency exposure. While the Company expects to achieve annual cost synergies in excess of $100.0 to be fully realized within three years of closing the transaction, 2015 results will be impacted by increased interest expense and lower margins from Covance.  

The Company manages its operations through two reportable segments: the Clinical diagnostics laboratory segment, which includes core testing as well as genomic and esoteric testing, and the Other segment, which consists of the Company's non-U.S. clinical diagnostic laboratory operations in Ontario, Canada, which is reviewed separately by corporate management for the purposes of allocation of resources. As mentioned above, in Item 1, "Business," of this annual report, the Clinical diagnostics laboratory segment results of operations have been negatively impacted by reductions in payments for laboratory services, primarily from federal and state government entities. Operating results for the Other segment have declined as compared to 2013, primarily due to government reimbursement reductions, as well as the impact of the stronger U.S. dollar in 2014 as compared with 2013. 

The discussion of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations set forth below does not reflect the operations or results of Covance, which will operate as Covance Drug Development. References in this Item 7 to the “Company” do not include Covance Drug Development, except where the circumstances clearly indicate otherwise. 

Seasonality

The majority of the Company’s testing volume is dependent on patient visits to physician offices and other providers of health care. Volume of testing generally declines during the year-end holiday periods and other major holidays. In addition, volume declines due to inclement weather may reduce net revenues and cash flows. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive periods may not accurately reflect trends or results from one year to the next.

 52

Index

Results of Operations (amounts in millions except Revenue Per Requisition info)

Years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012

Net Sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in net sales for the three years ended December 31, 2014 has been driven primarily by strong organic volume growth and the benefit of fold-in acquisitions made in all years in both of the Company's segments, along with growth in the Company's managed care business and toxicology testing, partially offset by test and payer mix. During 2014, the impact of weather reduced the Company's revenues by an estimated $40.0. The increase in revenue per requisition in core testing is the result of the number of tests per requisition and a change in the mix of testing within that category. The decline in revenue per requisition in genomic and esoteric testing is primarily a result of a change in the mix of tests within those categories. 

During 2013, the impact of weather, reduced the Company's revenues by an estimated $12.7, of which $5.3 occurred in the fourth quarter. The 2013 decline in revenue per requisition in genomic and esoteric testing is a result of a change in mix of genetic and histology testing. Histology revenue per requisition was also impacted by payment reductions on the Medicare physician fee schedule. Further, revenue per requisition also decreased due to delays in payments and denials of coverage for existing tests by some payers after implementation of new molecular pathology codes at the beginning of the year and the implementation of sequestration on April 1, 2013. 

Net sales of the Other segment were $329.4 for 2014 compared to $343.1 in 2013, a decrease of $13.7, or 4.0%. Net sales of the Other segment were negatively impacted by a stronger U.S. dollar in 2014 as compared with 2013 and 2012. In Canadian dollars, net sales of the Other segment for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 were CN$363.6

CN$353.2 and CN$334.7, respectively.

 53

Index

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of sales (primarily laboratory and distribution costs) increased 6.2% in 2014 as compared with 2013 primarily due to increased test volumes and test mix changes. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales in 2014 as compared to 2013 is due to the increased number of tests per requisition. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales in 2013 as compared to 2012 is primarily due to lower revenues resulting from the Medicare fee reductions, the impact of delays and denials of coverage of molecular pathology codes and sequestration in 2013, as mentioned above. 

Labor and testing supplies for the year ended December 31, 2014, comprise over 77.4% of the Company’s cost of sales. Cost of sales has increased over the three year period ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to overall growth in the Company's volume (including a 2.5% increase in the number of tests per requisition), the impact of acquisitions and increases in labor. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 19.9% in 2014 compared to 19.4% in 2013. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales is partially due to $13.8 in fees related to the Covance and LipoScience, Inc. acquisitions recorded in 2014. Additionally, bad debt expense increased to 4.6% of net sales in 2014 as compared to 4.4% of net sales in 2013. The Company also recorded $18.6 in consulting expenses (recorded in selling, general and administrative) relating to fees incurred as part of its business process improvement initiative as well as one-time CFO transition costs. 

 Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 19.4% in 2013 compared to 19.7% in 2012. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to $9.9 in fees related to the MEDTOX acquisition recorded in 2012 and to efficiencies from acquired operations that are being integrated into the Company's operating cost structure. Additionally, bad debt expense increased to 4.4% of net sales in 2013 as compared to 4.3% of net sales in 2012. 

Amortization of Intangibles and Other Assets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in amortization of intangibles and other assets over the three year period ended December 31, 2014 primarily reflects the net impact of acquisitions closed during all three years offset by adjustments to the fair value of deferred acquisition payments. During 2012, the Company recorded $6.2 in accelerated amortization relating to the termination of a licensing agreement.

Restructuring and Other Special Charges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2014, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $17.8. The charges were comprised of $10.5 in severance and other personnel costs and $8.4 in facility-related costs primarily associated with general integration activities. These charges were offset by the reversal of previously established reserves of $0.4 in unused severance and $0.7 in unused facility-related costs.

 54

Index

In addition, during 2014, the Company recorded $18.6 in consulting expenses (recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses) relating to fees incurred as part of its business process improvement initiative as well as one-time CFO transition costs. The Company also recorded $10.8 of costs related to the Covance acquisition, of which $4.8 is included in selling, general and administrative expenses and $6.0 is included in interest expense. 

During 2013, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $21.8. The charges were comprised of $15.4 in severance and other personnel costs and $9.5 in facility-related costs primarily associated with general integration activities. These charges were offset by the reversal of previously established reserves of $0.7 in unused severance and $2.4 in unused facility related costs. 

During 2012, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $25.3. The charges were comprised of $16.2 in severance and other personnel costs and $19.6 in facility-related costs primarily associated with the ongoing integration of Orchid and Integrated Genetics Division (formerly Genzyme Genetics) and costs associated with the previously announced termination of an executive vice president. These charges were offset by the reversal of previously established reserves of $6.3 in unused severance and $4.2 in unused facility-related costs. 

As part of the Clearstone integration, the Company also recorded a $6.9 loss on the disposal of one of its European subsidiaries in Other, net under Other income (expenses) during 2012.

During 2014, the Company announced Project Launchpad, which re-engineers the Company's systems and processes, leverages technological advancements and creates a sustainable, more efficient business model. The Company expects this initiative to drive savings in excess of $150.0 over the next three years, with associated one-time costs of approximately $30.0. The Company believes that any restructuring costs which may be incurred in future periods will be more than offset by subsequent savings realized from these potential actions and that any related restructuring charges will not have a material impact on the Company's operations or liquidity.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest expense for 2014 as compared with 2013 is primarily due to the issuance of $700.0 of senior notes in November 2013, reductions in borrowings under the Company's former Revolving Credit Facility, and Covance-related financing activities. This increase was also partially offset by a decrease in interest expense on the Company's senior notes due 2020 as a result of entering into a fixed to floating interest rate swap in the third quarter of 2013. The new and former Revolving Credit Facilities and the Company's financing activities in connection with the Covance acquisition are described below under the heading "Liquidity, Capital Resources, and Financial Position."

The increase in interest expense for 2013 as compared with 2012 is primarily due to the issuance of $700.0 of senior notes in November 2013 and $1,000.0 of senior notes in August 2012, net of the payoff of the Company's 5.5% senior notes due 2013 and the reductions in borrowings under the former Revolving Credit Facility due to paydowns with proceeds from the 2012 and 2013 issuances. This increase was also partially offset by a decrease in interest expense on the senior notes due 2020 as a result of entering into a fixed to floating interest rate swap in the third quarter of 2013. 

Equity Method Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity method income represents the Company's ownership share in joint venture partnerships along with equity investments in other companies in the health care industry. The decrease in income in 2014 compared to 2013 is primarily the result of a decline in profitability of one of the Company's joint venture partnerships due to a challenging business climate in its market. 

The decrease in income in 2013 compared to 2012 is primarily the result of a $2.9 increase recorded in 2012 due to the liquidation of one of its joint ventures and a decline in profitability of one of the Company's joint venture partnerships due to a challenging business climate in its market. 

 55

Index

Other, net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other, net represents the Company's gain on the sale of its investment in an equity security, partially offset by the impairment of other investments.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The effective rate for 2014 was unfavorably impacted by the recording of a full valuation allowance for the write-down of two of the Company's investments. 

The effective rate for 2013 was favorably impacted by the release of a capital loss valuation allowance and recording two years of a research and development tax credit. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was enacted in early 2013 and reinstated the R&D tax credit for 2012 and extended the credit for calendar year 2013.

The effective tax rate for 2012 was favorably impacted by a decrease in the reserve for unrecognized income tax benefits, partially offset by an increase in tax on the additional investment in the Company's Canadian subsidiary. 

Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position

The Company's strong cash-generating capability and financial condition typically have provided ready access to capital markets. The Company's principal source of liquidity is operating cash flow, supplemented by proceeds from debt offerings. This cash-generating capability is one of the Company's fundamental strengths and provides substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. 

On February 19, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of Covance for approximately $6,200.0, pursuant to a definitive merger agreement entered into on November 2, 2014 (the “Merger Agreement”). Covance stockholders received $75.76 in cash and 0.2686 shares of the Company's common stock for each share of Covance common stock they owned immediately prior to consummation of the acquisition.

On January 30, 2015, the Company issued $2,900.0 in debt securities, consisting of $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.625% Senior Notes due 2020, $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.20% Senior Notes due 2022, $1,000.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.60% Senior Notes due 2025 and $900.0 aggregate principal amount of 4.700% Senior Notes due 2045 (together, the "Acquisition Notes"). Net proceeds from the offering of the Acquisition Notes were $2,870.2 after deducting underwriting discounts and other estimated expenses of the offering. Net proceeds were used to pay a portion of the cash consideration and the fees and expenses in connection with the Covance acquisition.

With the acquisition of Covance, the Company anticipates a significant increase in the total debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio for the combined company. The Company expects to maintain an investment grade credit profile and intends to utilize its free cash flow to pay down debt and make small "fold-in" acquisitions. 

On November 1, 2013, the Company issued $700.0 in new senior notes pursuant to an effective shelf registration on Form S-3. The senior notes consisted of $400.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.50% Senior Notes due 2018 and $300.0 aggregate principal amount of 4.00% Senior Notes due 2023. The net proceeds were first used to repay all of the outstanding borrowings under the Company’s former Revolving Credit Facility and the remainder was used for general corporate purposes. 

 During the third quarter of 2013, the Company entered into fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements for the 4.625% senior notes due 2020 with an aggregate notional amount of $600.0 and variable interest rates based on one-month LIBOR plus 

 56

Index

2.298% to hedge against changes in the fair value of a portion of the Company's long term debt. These derivative financial instruments are accounted for as fair value hedges of the senior notes due 2020. These interest rate swaps are included in other long term assets and added to the value of the senior notes, with an aggregate fair value of $18.5 at December 31, 2014. As the specific terms and notional amounts of the derivative financial instruments match those of the fixed-rate debt being hedged, the derivative instruments are assumed to be perfectly effective hedges and accordingly, there is no impact to the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. There were no derivative instruments designated as accounting hedges in 2012.

On August 23, 2012, the Company issued $1,000.0 in new senior notes pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3. The new senior notes consisted of $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.20% Senior Notes due 2017 and $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Notes due 2022. The net proceeds were used to repay $625.0 of the outstanding borrowings under the Company's former Revolving Credit Facility. The remaining proceeds were used for other general corporate purposes.

On July 31, 2012, the Company completed its acquisition of MEDTOX for $236.4 in cash, excluding transaction fees. The acquisition was financed through borrowings from the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility and cash on hand.

Operating Activities

In 2014, the Company’s operations provided $739.0 of cash, reflecting the Company’s solid business results. In 2013, the Company's operations provided $818.7 of cash. The decrease in cash provided from operations in 2014 as compared with 2013 is primarily attributable to lower net earnings and the timing of certain working capital items. The Company continues to focus on efforts to increase cash collections from all payers and to generate ongoing improvements to the claim submission processes.

Investing Activities

Capital expenditures were $203.5, $202.2, and $173.8 for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. The increase in capital spending in 2014 was related to certain integration and cost savings initiatives started by the Company. The Company expects capital expenditures of approximately $185.0 to $205.0 in 2015. Such expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations, as well as borrowings under the Company’s former Revolving Credit Facility as needed.

The Company remains committed to growing its business through a combination of internal development initiatives, technology licensing and partnership transactions and selected business acquisitions. Excluding Covance, the Company has invested a total of $579.5 over the past three years in strategic business acquisitions, including LipoScience, Inc. and Bode Technology Group, Inc. in 2014. These acquisitions have helped strengthen the Company’s geographic presence along with expanding capabilities in the specialty testing operations. The Company believes the acquisition market remains attractive with a number of opportunities to strengthen its scientific capabilities, grow esoteric testing capabilities and increase presence in key geographic areas.

The Company has invested a total of $2.5 over the past three years in licensing new testing technologies and had $30.0 net book value of capitalized patents, licenses and technology as of December 31, 2014. While the Company continues to believe its strategy of entering into licensing and technology distribution agreements with the developers of leading-edge technologies will provide future growth in revenues, there are certain risks associated with these investments. These risks include, but are not limited to, the failure of the licensed technology to gain broad acceptance in the marketplace and/or that insurance companies, managed care organizations, or Medicare and Medicaid will not approve reimbursement for these tests at a level commensurate with the costs of running the tests. Any or all of these circumstances could result in impairment in the value of the related capitalized licensing costs.

Financing Activities

On November 2, 2014, in connection with entering into the Merger Agreement with Covance, the Company entered into a bridge facility commitment letter. Under the bridge facility commitment letter, the lenders agreed to provide a $4,250.0 senior unsecured bridge term loan credit facility consisting of a $3,850.0 364-day unsecured debt bridge tranche and a $400.0 60-day unsecured cash bridge tranche for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cash consideration and the fees and expenses in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The bridge facility was permitted to be drawn only in a single drawing on the closing date of the Acquisition. 

On December 19, 2014, the Company entered into a five-year term loan credit facility in the principal amount of $1,000.0 for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration and the fees and expenses in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Pursuant to the bridge facility commitment letter, upon the Company’s entry into the term loan credit facility, the $4,250.0 bridge facility was reduced to a $3,250.0 commitment, comprised of a $2,850.0 364-day 

 57

Index

unsecured debt bridge tranche and a $400.0 60-day cash bridge tranche. The $1,000.0 of term loan commitments made under the term loan credit facility reduced the debt bridge tranche under the bridge facility dollar for dollar.

The term loan credit facility was advanced in full on February 19, 2015, the date of the Company’s completion of the acquisition. The term loan credit facility will mature five years after the closing date of the Acquisition and may be prepaid without penalty. 

On December 19, 2014, the Company also entered into an amendment and restatement of its existing senior revolving credit facility, which was originally entered into on December 21, 2011. The senior revolving credit facility, consists of a five-year revolving facility in the principal amount of up to $1,000.0, with the option of increasing the facility by up to an additional $250.0, subject to the agreement of one or more new or existing lenders to provide such additional amounts and certain other customary conditions. The new revolving credit facility also provides for a subfacility of up to $100.0 for swing line borrowings and a subfacility of up to $125.0 for issuances of letters of credit. The new revolving credit facility is permitted to be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, funding of share repurchases and certain other payments, and acquisitions and other investments.

On January 30, 2015, the Company issued the Acquisition Notes, which represent $2,900.0 in debt securities. Net proceeds from the offering of the Acquisition Notes were $2,870.2 after deducting underwriting discounts and other estimated expenses of the offering. Net proceeds were used to pay a portion of the cash consideration and the fees and expenses in connection with the Company’s acquisition of Covance. Pursuant to the bridge facility commitment letter, upon the Company’s issuance of the Acquisition Notes the remaining $2,850.0 364-day unsecured debt bridge tranche under the senior unsecured bridge term loan credit facility was terminated. 

On February 13, 2015, the Company entered into a 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility in the principal amount of $400.0 for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration and the fees and expenses in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility was entered on the terms set forth in the bridge facility commitment letter for the $400.0 60-day cash bridge tranche. 

The 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility was advanced in full on February 19, 2015, the date of the Company’s completion of the Acquisition. The 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility will mature 60 days after the closing date of the Acquisition and may be prepaid without penalty. The 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility is subject to mandatory prepayment upon the receipt by the Company of net cash proceeds from certain asset dispositions, debt issuances, or equity issuances.

Under the term loan credit facility and the new revolving credit facility and the 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility, which have affirmative and negative covenants that are substantially identical, the Company is subject to negative covenants limiting subsidiary indebtedness and certain other covenants typical for investment grade-rated borrowers and the Company is required to maintain a leverage ratio that varies. Prior to the acquisition closing date, the leverage ratio was required to have been no greater than 3.75 to 1.00, calculated by excluding the $2,900.0 Acquisition Notes. From and after the acquisition closing date, the leverage ratio must be no greater than 4.75 to 1.00 with respect to the last day of each of the first four fiscal quarters ending on or after the closing date, 4.25 to 1.00 with respect to the last day of each of the fifth through eighth fiscal quarters ending after the closing date, and 3.75 to 1.00 with respect to the last day of each fiscal quarter ending thereafter. The Company was in compliance with all covenants in the term loan credit facility and the new revolving credit facility at December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA was 2.5 to 1.0.

The term loan credit facility will accrue interest at a per annum rate equal to, at the Company’s election, either a LIBOR rate plus a margin ranging from 1.125% to 2.00%, or a base rate determined according to a prime rate or federal funds rate plus a margin ranging from 0.125% to 1.00%. Advances under the new revolving credit facility will accrue interest at a per annum rate equal to, at the Company’s election, either a LIBOR rate plus a margin ranging from 1.00 to 1.60%, or a base rate determined according to a prime rate or federal funds rate plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.60%. Fees are payable on outstanding letters of credit under the new revolving credit facility at a per annum rate equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR loans, and the Company is required to pay a facility fee on the aggregate commitments under the new revolving credit facility, at a per annum rate ranging from 0.125% to 0.40%. The 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility will accrue interest at a per annum rate equal to, at the Company’s election, either a LIBOR rate plus a margin ranging from 1.25% to 2.00%, or a base rate determined according to a prime rate or federal funds rate plus a margin ranging from 0.25% to 1.00%. In each case, the interest margin applicable to the credit facilities, and the facility fee and letter of credit fees payable under the new revolving credit facility, are based on the Company’s senior credit ratings as determined by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, which are currently BBB and Baa2, respectively.

There were no balances outstanding on the Company's new Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2014 or on its former Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2013. 

As of December 31, 2014, the effective interest rate on the new Revolving Credit Facility was 1.1%.

 58

Index

On November 1, 2013, the Company issued $700.0 in new senior notes pursuant to the Company’s effective shelf registration on Form S-3. The new senior notes consisted of $400.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.50% Senior Notes due 2018 and $300.0 aggregate principal amount of 4.00% Senior Notes due 2023. The net proceeds were used to repay all of the outstanding borrowings under the Company’s former Revolving Credit Facility and for general corporate purposes. 

The Senior Notes due 2018 and Senior Notes due 2023 bear interest at the rate of 2.50% per annum and 4.00% per annum, respectively, payable semi-annually on May 1 and November of each year, commencing on May 1, 2014. 

On August 23, 2012, the Company issued $1,000.0 in new senior notes pursuant to the Company's effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3. The new senior notes consisted of $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.20% Senior Notes due 2017 and $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Notes due 2022. The net proceeds were used to repay $625.0 of the outstanding borrowings under the Company's former Revolving Credit Facility. The remaining proceeds are available for other general corporate purposes.

The Senior Notes due 2017 and Senior Notes due 2022 bear interest at the rate of 2.20% per annum and 3.75% per annum, respectively, payable semi-annually on February 23 and August 23 of each year, commencing February 23, 2013.

During 2014, the Company purchased $269.0 of its stock representing 2.7 shares. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had remaining outstanding authorization from the Board of Directors to purchase $789.5 of Company common stock. 

During 2014, the Company settled notices to convert $21.9 aggregate principal amount at maturity of its zero-coupon subordinated notes with a conversion value of $28.7. The total cash used for these settlements was $18.9 and the Company also issued 0.1 additional shares of common stock.

On September 12, 2014, the Company announced that for the period of September 12, 2014 to March 11, 2015, the zero-coupon subordinated notes will accrue contingent cash interest at a rate of no less than 0.125% of the average market price of a zero-coupon subordinated note for the five trading days ended September 9, 2014, in addition to the continued accrual of the original issue discount.

On January 2, 2015, the Company announced that its zero-coupon subordinated notes may be converted into cash and common stock at the conversion rate of 13.4108 per $1,000 principal amount at maturity of the notes, subject to the terms of the zero-coupon subordinated notes and the Indenture, dated as of October 24, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee and conversion agent. In order to exercise the option to convert all or a portion of the zero-coupon subordinated notes, holders are required to validly surrender their zero-coupon subordinated notes at any time during the calendar quarter beginning January 1, 2015, through the close of business on the last business day of the calendar quarter, which is 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Tuesday, March 31, 2015. If notices of conversion are received, the Company plans to settle the cash portion of the conversion obligation with cash on hand and/or borrowings under the new revolving credit facility. 

Credit Ratings

The Company’s debt ratings of Baa2 from Moody’s and BBB from Standard and Poor’s contribute to its ability to access capital markets.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 59

Index

(a)Contingent future licensing payments will be made if certain events take place, such as the launch of a specific test, the transfer of certain technology, and when specified revenue milestones are met.

(b)As announced by the Company on January 2, 2015, holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes may choose to convert their notes during the first quarter of 2015 subject to terms as defined in the note agreement. See “Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements” and "Credit Ratings" above for further information regarding the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes.

(c)The table does not include obligations under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, which are included in "Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements." Benefits under the Company's postretirement medical plan are made when claims are submitted for payment, the timing of which is not practicable to estimate.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(e)This table does not include the $2,900.0 senior notes issued January 30, 2015. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company does not have transactions or relationships with “special purpose” entities, and the Company does not have any off balance sheet financing other than normal operating leases and letters of credits.

Other Commercial Commitments

As of December 31, 2014, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $42.5, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs. Letters of credit provided by the Company are secured by the new Company’s Revolving Credit Facility and are renewed annually, around mid-year.

On October 14, 2011, the Company issued notice to a noncontrolling interest holder in its Other segment of its intent to purchase the holder's partnership units in accordance with the terms of the joint venture's partnership agreement. On November 28, 2011, this purchase was completed for a total purchase price of CN$151.7 as outlined in the partnership agreement (CN$147.8 plus certain adjustments relating to cash distribution hold backs made to finance recent business acquisitions and capital expenditures). The purchase of these additional partnership units brings the Company's percentage interest owned to 98.2%.

The contractual value of the remaining noncontrolling interest put totals $17.7 at December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, $17.7 and $19.4, respectively, have been classified as mezzanine equity in the Company's consolidated balance sheet.

Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled with availability under its Revolving Credit Facility, the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet both its anticipated short-term and long-term cash needs; however, the Company continually reassesses its liquidity position in light of market conditions and other relevant factors.

Covance Drug Development Revenue-Generating Arrangements 

The Company expects that Covance Drug Development's revenues will be generated from contractual arrangements that are similar in structure to Covance’s historical experience. Historically, a majority of revenues have been earned under contracts that range in duration from a few months to two years, but can extend in duration up to five years or longer. Covance Drug Development also has committed minimum volume arrangements with certain clients with initial terms that generally range in duration from three to ten years. Underlying these arrangements are individual project contracts for the specific services to be provided. These arrangements enable Covance Drug Development's clients to secure its services in exchange for which they commit to purchase an annual minimum dollar value, or volume, of services. Under these types of arrangements, if the annual minimum volume commitment is not reached, the client is required to pay Covance Drug Development for the shortfall.

Many of Covance Drug Development's client contracts are either fixed price or fee‑for‑service with a cap. To a lesser extent, some of its contracts are fee‑for‑service without a cap. In cases where the contracts are fixed price, Covance Drug Development may bear the cost of overruns, or Covance Drug Development may benefit if the costs are lower than anticipated. In cases where contracts are fee‑for‑service with a cap, the contracts contain an overall budget for the trial based on time and cost estimates. If costs are lower than anticipated, the client generally keeps the savings, but if costs are higher than estimated, Covance Drug Development may be responsible for the overrun unless the increased cost is a result of a scope change or other factors outside 

 60

Index

of its control, such as an increase in the number of patients to be enrolled or the type or amount of data to be collected. Contracts may range in duration from a few months to several years or longer depending on the nature of the work performed. In some cases, Covance Drug Development bills the client for the total contract value in progress‑based installments as it reaches certain non‑contingent billing milestones over the contract duration.

Most of Covance Drug Development's contracts may be terminated by the client either immediately or upon notice. These contracts often require payment to Covance Drug Development of expenses to wind down a study or project, payment to Covance Drug Development of fees earned to date, and, in some cases, a termination fee or payment to Covance Drug Development of some portion of the fees or profit that could have been earned under the contract if it had not been terminated early.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In February 2013, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on joint and several liability arrangements for which the total amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting date. Under this new standard, obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements are to be measured as the sum of: (a) the amount the reporting entity agreed with its co-obligors that it will pay and (b) any additional amount the reporting entity expects to pay on behalf of its co-obligors. This standard, which applies prospectively, became effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2014. The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.

In March 2013, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on foreign currency matters that clarifies the guidance of a parent company's accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of certain subsidiaries or groups of assets within a foreign entity or of an investment in a foreign entity. Under this new standard, a parent company that ceases to have a controlling financial interest in a foreign subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity shall release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income only if a sale or transfer results in complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity. This standard, which applies prospectively, became effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2014. The adoption of this standard did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.

In April 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on discontinued operations that significantly changes criteria for discontinued operations and disclosures for disposals. Under this new standard, to be a discontinued operation, a component or group of components must represent a strategic shift that has (or will have) a major effect on an entity's operations and financial results. Expanded disclosures for discontinued operations include more details about earnings and balance sheet accounts, total operating and investing cash flows, and cash flows resulting from continuing involvement. The guidance is to be applied prospectively to all new disposals of components and new classifications as held for sale beginning in 2015, with early adoption allowed in 2014. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

In May 2014, the FASB issued the converged standard on revenue recognition with the objective of providing a single, comprehensive model for all contracts with customers to improve comparability in the financial statements of companies reporting using International Financial Reporting Standards and U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The standard contains principles that an entity must apply to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized. The underlying principle is that an entity must recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. An entity can apply the revenue standard retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognized at the date of initial application in retained earnings. The revenue standard is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2017. The Company is currently evaluating the expected impact of the standard. 

In August 2014, the FASB issued a new accounting standard that explicitly requires management to assess an entity's ability to continue as a going concern, and to provide related financial statement footnote disclosures in certain circumstances. Under this standard, in connection with each annual and interim period, management must assess whether there is substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the financial statements are issued (or available to be issued when applicable). Management shall consider relevant conditions and events that are known and reasonably knowable at such issuance date. Substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern exists if it is probable that the entity will be unable to meet its obligations as they become due within one year after issuance date. Disclosures will be required if conditions or events give rise to substantial doubt. This standard is effective for the Company for the annual period after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 

 61

Index

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. While the Company believes these estimates are reasonable and consistent, they are by their very nature, estimates of amounts that will depend on future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. The Company’s Audit Committee periodically reviews the Company’s significant accounting policies. The Company’s critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following:

•Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts;

•Pension expense;

•Accruals for self insurance reserves;

•Income taxes; and

•Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets

Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts

Revenue is recognized for services rendered when the testing process is complete and test results are reported to the ordering physician. The Company’s sales are generally billed to three types of payers – clients, patients and third parties such as managed care companies, Medicare and Medicaid. For clients, sales are recorded on a fee-for-service basis at the Company’s client list price, less any negotiated discount. Patient sales are recorded at the Company’s patient fee schedule, net of any discounts negotiated with physicians on behalf of their patients, or fees made available through charity care or an uninsured patient program. The Company bills third-party payers in two ways – fee-for-service and capitated agreements. Fee-for-service third-party payers are billed at the Company's patient fee schedule amount, and third-party revenue is recorded net of contractual discounts. These discounts are recorded at the transaction level at the time of sale based on a fee schedule that is maintained for each third-party payer. The majority of the Company’s third-party sales are recorded using an actual or contracted fee schedule at the time of sale. For the remaining third-party sales, estimated fee schedules are maintained for each payer. Adjustments to the estimated payment amounts are recorded at the time of final collection and settlement of each transaction as an adjustment to revenue. These adjustments are not material to the Company’s results of operations in any period presented. The Company periodically adjusts these estimated fee schedules based upon historical payment trends. Under capitated agreements with managed care companies, the Company recognizes revenue based on a negotiated monthly contractual rate for each member of the managed care plan regardless of the number or cost of services performed.

The Company has a formal process to estimate and review the collectibility of its receivables based on the period of time they have been outstanding. Bad debt expense is recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales considered necessary to maintain the allowance for doubtful accounts at an appropriate level. The Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for doubtful accounts involves judgment, and considers such factors as the age of the underlying receivables, historical and projected collection experience, and other external factors that could affect the collectibility of its receivables. Accounts are written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the Company’s write-off policy (e.g., when they are deemed to be uncollectible). In the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance, accounts are progressively reserved based on the historical timing of cash collections relative to their respective aging categories within the Company’s receivables. These collection and reserve processes, along with the close monitoring of the billing process, help reduce the risks of material revisions to reserve estimates resulting from adverse changes in collection or reimbursement experience.

 62

Index

The following table presents the percentage of the Company’s net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category at December 31, 2014 and 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The above table excludes the percentage of net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category for the Other segment, and its other smaller foreign operations. Combined, these foreign net accounts receivable balances comprise less than 6.0% of the Company's total net accounts receivable balances. The Company believes that including the agings of the accounts receivable for these foreign operations would not be representative of the majority of the accounts receivable by aging category for the Company. The majority of the foreign accounts receivable are due from the provincial government and are generally paid within 30-60 days of billing.

Pension Expense

The Company has a defined benefit retirement plan (the "Company Plan") and a non-qualified supplemental retirement plan (the "PEP"). In October 2009, the Company received approval from its Board of Directors to freeze any additional service-based credits for any years of service after December 31, 2009 on the Company Plan and the PEP. Both plans have been closed to new participants. Employees participating in the Company Plan and the PEP no longer earn service-based credits, but continue to earn interest credits. In addition, effective January 1, 2010, all employees eligible for the defined contribution retirement plan (the “401K Plan”) receive a minimum 3% non-elective contribution (“NEC”) concurrent with each payroll period. The 401K Plan also permits discretionary contributions by the Company of up to 1% and up to 3% of pay for eligible employees, based on service.

The Company Plan covers substantially all employees hired prior to December 31, 2009. The benefits to be paid under the Company Plan are based on years of credited service through December 31, 2009, interest credits and average compensation. The Company's policy is to fund the Company Plan with at least the minimum amount required by applicable regulations. The PEP covers the Company's senior management group. Prior to 2010, the PEP provided for the payment of the difference, if any, between the amount of any maximum limitation on annual benefit payments under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the annual benefit that would be payable under the Company Plan but for such limitation. Effective January 1, 2010, employees participating in the PEP no longer earn service-based credits. The PEP is an unfunded plan. 

The Company's net pension cost is developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis at the beginning of each year. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. The key assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit retirement plans were a 4.0% discount rate and a 7.0% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets as of December 31, 2014.

Discount Rate

The Company evaluates several approaches toward setting the discount rate assumption that is used to value the benefit obligations of its retirement plans. At year-end, priority was given to use of the Towers Watson Bond:Link model, which simulates the purchase of investment-grade corporate bonds at current market yields with principal amounts and maturity dates closely matching the Company's projected cash disbursements from its plans. This completed model represents the yields to maturity that the Company could theoretically settle its plan obligations at year end. The weighted-average yield on the modeled bond portfolio is then used to form the discount rate assumption used for each retirement plan. A one percentage point decrease or increase in the discount rate would have resulted in a respective increase or decrease in 2014 retirement plan expense of $2.3.

 63

Index

Return on Plan Assets

In establishing its expected return on plan assets assumption, the Company reviews its asset allocation and develops return assumptions based on different asset classes adjusting for plan operating expenses. Actual asset over/under performance compared to expected returns will respectively decrease/increase unrecognized loss. The change in the unrecognized loss will change amortization cost in upcoming periods. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have resulted in a corresponding change in 2014 pension expense of $2.6.

Net pension cost for 2014 was $8.1 as compared with $11.0 in 2013 and $12.1 in 2012. The decrease in pension expense was due to decreases in the amount of net amortization and deferral. The decrease in pension expense in 2013 was due decrease in pension expense was due to decreases in the amount of net amortization and deferral as a result of higher discount rates. Projected pension expense for the Company Plan and the PEP is expected to increase to $11.6 in 2015 as a result of a lower assumed discount rate and changes in participant mortality tables. 

Further information on the Company’s defined benefit retirement plan is provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

Accruals for Self-insurance Reserves

Accruals for self-insurance reserves (including workers’ compensation, auto and employee medical) are determined based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical payment trends and claims history, actuarial assumptions and current and estimated future economic conditions. These estimated liabilities are not discounted.

 The Company is self-insured (up to certain limits) for professional liability claims arising in the normal course of business, generally related to the testing and reporting of laboratory test results. The Company maintains excess insurance which limits the Company’s maximum exposure on individual claims. The Company estimates a liability that represents the ultimate exposure for aggregate losses below those limits. The liability is discounted and is based on actuarial assumptions and factors for known and incurred but not reported claims, including the frequency and payment trends of historical claims.

If actual trends differ from these estimates, the financial results could be impacted. Historical trends have not differed materially from these estimates.

 Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability method. Under this method deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company does not recognize a tax benefit, unless the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, the Company recognizes a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that the Company believes is greater than 50% likely to be realized. The Company records interest and penalties in income tax expense.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Assets

The Company assesses goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment at least annually and more frequently if triggering events occur. The timing of the Company's annual impairment testing is the end of the fiscal year. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) updates to their authoritative guidance regarding goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment testing, an entity is allowed to first assess qualitative factors as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform quantitative impairment testing. If an entity determines that it is not more likely than not that the estimated fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, then no further testing is required. Otherwise, impairment testing must be performed in accordance with the original accounting standards. The updated FASB guidance also allows an entity to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in its goodwill assessment and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step assessment. Similarly, a Company can proceed directly to a quantitative assessment in the case of impairment testing for indefinite-lived intangible assets as well. In 2014 and 2013, the Company elected to bypass the purely qualitative assessments for its goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and proceed to quantitative assessments utilizing methodologies as described in the following paragraphs. 

 64

Index

Step One of the goodwill impairment test includes the estimation of the fair value of each reporting unit as compared to the book value of the reporting unit. The Company uses a market value approach for determining fair value and utilizes a number of factors such as publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of the Company as well as operating results, business plans, and present value techniques. If Step One indicates potential impairment, the second step is performed to measure the amount of the impairment.

The Company has indefinite-lived assets consisting of acquired Canadian licenses. When a quantitative analysis is considered necessary for indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company utilizes an income approach to determine the fair value. It then compares the carrying value of the indefinite-lived asset to its fair value. Impairment losses are recorded to the extent that the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value.

There are inherent uncertainties related to the factors described above and judgment related to the impairment assessments of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles. The assumptions underlying the impairment analyses may change in such a manner that impairment in value may occur in the future. Any such impairment will be recognized in the period in which it becomes known.

 65

Index

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The Company has made in this report, and from time to time may otherwise make in its public filings, press releases and discussions by Company management, forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “seeks”, “approximately”, “intends”, “plans”, “estimates”, or “anticipates” or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and in the Company’s other public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, including:

1. changes in federal, state, local and third party payer regulations or policies or other future reforms in the health care system (or in the interpretation of current regulations), new insurance or payment systems, including state, regional or private insurance cooperatives (Health Insurance Exchanges), new public insurance programs or a single-payer system, affecting governmental and third-party coverage or reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing;

2. significant monetary damages, fines, penalties, assessments, refunds, repayments, and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, among other adverse consequences, resulting from interpretations of, or future changes in, laws and regulations, including laws and regulations of Medicare, Medicaid, the False Claims Act, interpretations of such laws and regulations by federal or state government agencies or investigations, audits, regulatory examinations, information requests, and other inquires by state or federal government agencies; 

3. increased costs, denial of claims and/or significant penalties arising from the failure to comply with HIPAA, including changes to federal and state privacy and security obligations and changes to HITECH and any subsequent amendments;

4.loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or the federal Occupational Safety and Prevention Act or similar laws and regulations of federal, state or local agencies;

5. penalties or loss of license arising from the failure to comply with the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act;

6. changes in testing guidelines or recommendations by government agencies, medical specialty societies and other authoritative bodies affecting the utilization of laboratory tests;

7.changes in government regulations or policies, including regulations and policies of the Food and Drug Administration, affecting the approval, availability of, and the selling and marketing of diagnostic tests or changes in testing guidelines or recommendations by government agencies, medical specialty societies or other authoritative bodies affecting the utilization of laboratory tests;

8.liabilities that result from the inability to comply with corporate governance requirements;

9. increased competition, including price competition, competitive bidding and/or changes or reductions to fee schedules and competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry;

10. changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms or the impact of a shift to consumer-driven health plans and adverse changes in payer reimbursement or payer coverage policies related to specific testing procedures or categories of testing;

11. failure to retain or attract managed care business as a result of changes in business models, including new risk based or network approaches, or other changes in strategy or business models by managed care companies;

12. failure to obtain and retain new customers or a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers;

13. difficulty in maintaining relationships with customers or retaining key employees as a result of uncertainty surrounding the Covance acquisition and the resulting negative effects on the business of the Company;

14. failure to identify, successfully close and to effectively integrate and/or manage newly acquired businesses, including Covance, and the cost, time and effort required to integrate newly acquired businesses, including Covance, which may be greater than anticipated; 

 66

Index

15.inability to achieve the expected benefits and synergies of the Covance acquisition could have a negative impact on the Company's cash position, levels of indebtedness and stock price; 

16.the inability of the Company and Covance to meet expectations regarding accounting and tax treatments related to the Covance acquisition;

17.changes in government regulations pertaining to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, changes in reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, or reduced spending on research and development by pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers;

18.termination, delay or reduction in scope of Covance Drug Development's contracts;

19.liability arising from errors or omissions in the performance of Covance Drug Development's contract research services;

20. damage to the Company's reputation, loss of business, harm from acts of animal rights extremists, or potential liability arising from Covance Drug Development's animal research products; 

21.adverse results in litigation matters;

22. inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;

23.failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved technologies, or potential use of new technologies by customers to perform their own tests;

24. substantial costs arising from the inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate coverage or reimbursement for such tests;

25.inability to obtain and maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights for protection of the Company's products and services and successfully enforce the Company's proprietary rights;

26.scope, validity and enforceability of patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties that may impact the Company's ability to develop, perform, or market the Company's tests or operate its business;

27.business interruption or other impact on the business due to adverse weather (including hurricanes), fires and/or other natural disasters, terrorism or other criminal acts, and/or widespread outbreak of influenza or other pandemic illness;

28.discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products;

29.loss of business or increased costs due to damage to the Company's reputation and significant litigation exposure arising from failure in the Company's information technology systems, including an increase in testing turnaround time or billing processes, failure to maintain the security of business information or systems or to protect against cyber security attacks, inability to meet required financial reporting deadlines, or the failure to meet future regulatory or customer information technology, data security and connectivity requirements;

30.business interruption, increased costs, and other adverse effects on the Company's operations due to the unionization of employees, union strikes, work stoppages, or general labor unrest;

31. failure to maintain the Company's days sales outstanding and/or bad debt expense levels including negative impact on the Company's reimbursement, cash collections, days sales outstanding and profitability arising from the failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to comply with the ICD-10-CM Code Set by the compliance date of October 1, 2015; 

32.impact on the Company's testing volumes, cash collections and the availability of credit for general liquidity or other financing needs arising from a significant deterioration in the economy or financial markets or in the Company's credit ratings by Standard & Poor's and/or Moody's; 

33.changes in reimbursement by foreign governments and foreign currency fluctuations; and

34. expenses and risks associated with international operations, including but not limited to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as laws and regulations that differ from those of the U.S., and economic, political, legal and other operational risks associated with foreign markets.

Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK