Item 1A. Risk Factors

Risks Associated with the Company’s Business

Changes in federal, state, local and third-party payer regulations or policies (or in the interpretation of current regulations or policies), insurance regulation or approvals or changes in other laws, regulations or policies may adversely affect governmental and third-party coverage and reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing and may have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business.

Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as insurers, including MCOs, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of health care services. From time to time, Congress has considered and implemented changes in the Medicare fee schedules in conjunction with budgetary legislation. Further reductions of reimbursement for Medicare and Medicaid services or changes in policy regarding coverage of tests or other requirements for payment, such as prior authorization or a physician or qualified practitioner’s signature on test requisitions, may be implemented from time to time. Reimbursement for the pathology services component of the Company’s business is also subject to statutory and regulatory reduction. Reductions in the reimbursement rates and changes in payment policies of other third-party payers may occur as well. Such changes in the past have resulted in reduced payments as well as added costs and have decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by adding more complex new regulatory and administrative requirements. Further changes in federal, state, local and third-party payer regulations or policies may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Actions by agencies regulating insurance or changes in other laws, regulations, or policies may also have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business.

The Company could face significant monetary damages and penalties and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs if it violates health care anti-fraud and abuse laws.

The Company is subject to extensive government regulation at the federal, state and local levels. The Company’s failure to meet governmental requirements under these regulations, including those relating to billing practices and financial relationships with physicians and hospitals, could lead to civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid and possible prohibitions or restrictions on the use of its laboratories. While the Company believes that it is in material compliance 

 29

Index

with all statutory and regulatory requirements, there is a risk that government authorities might take a contrary position. Such occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect important business relationships it has with third parties.

The Company’s business could be harmed from the loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, the FDA or those of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal, state or local agencies.

The clinical laboratory testing industry is subject to extensive regulation, and many of these statutes and regulations have not been interpreted by the courts. CLIA extends federal oversight to virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that they be certified by the federal government or by a federally-approved accreditation agency. The sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements may be suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory’s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation under state law. State laws may require that laboratories and/or laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls or require maintenance of certain records. The FDA regulates diagnostic products and periodically inspects and reviews their manufacturing processes and product performance. The Company's MedTox Diagnostic Inc.'s point of collection testing devices are subject to regulation by the FDA.

Applicable statutes and regulations could be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would adversely affect the Company's business. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the suspension or loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations, or product suspensions or recalls which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on the Company which may be costly, including FDA regulation of laboratory developed tests.

Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration Act and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, could result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business.

The Company is subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees. All of the Company’s laboratories are subject to applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to biohazard disposal of all laboratory specimens, and they utilize outside vendors for disposal of such specimens. In addition, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis B virus. These requirements, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. In addition, the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act requires, among other things, that the Company include in its safety programs the evaluation and use of engineering controls such as safety needles if found to be effective at reducing the risk of needlestick injuries in the workplace.

Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations could subject the Company to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions which would have a material adverse effect on its business. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on the Company which may be costly.

Regulations requiring the use of “standard transactions” for health care services issued under HIPAA may negatively impact the Company’s profitability and cash flows.

Pursuant to HIPAA, the Secretary of HHS has issued regulations designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the health care system by facilitating the electronic exchange of information in certain financial and administrative transactions while protecting the privacy and security of the information exchanged.

The HIPAA transaction standards are complex, and subject to differences in interpretation by payers. For instance, some payers may interpret the standards to require the Company to provide certain types of information, including demographic information not usually provided to the Company by physicians. In addition, new requirements for additional standard transactions, such as claims attachments, and the ICD-10-CM Code Set, could prove technically difficult, time-consuming or expensive to implement. 

 30

Index

The costs associated with ICD-10-CM Code Set were substantial, and failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to transition within the required timeframe could have an adverse impact on reimbursement, days sales outstanding and cash collections. As a result of inconsistent application of other transaction standards by payers or the Company’s inability to obtain certain billing information not usually provided to the Company by physicians, the Company could face increased costs and complexity, a temporary disruption in receipts and ongoing reductions in reimbursements and net revenues. The Company is working closely with its payers to establish acceptable protocols for claim submission and with its trade association and an industry coalition to present issues and problems as they arise to the appropriate regulators and standards setting organizations.

Failure to maintain the security of customer-related information or compliance with security requirements could damage the Company’s reputation with customers, cause it to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation.

The Company receives certain personal and financial information about its customers. In addition, the Company depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise in the Company’s security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons or the Company’s failure to comply with security requirements for financial transactions could adversely affect the Company’s reputation with its customers and others, as well as the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. It could also result in litigation against the Company or the imposition of penalties.

Failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to comply with the ICD-10-CM Code Set by the compliance date of October 1, 2015, could negatively impact the Company's reimbursement, profitability and cash flow.

The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the current Transactions and Code Sets Rule. The Company implemented Version 5010 of the HIPAA Transaction Standards, and is within the testing and implementation phase of the rule to adopt the ICD-10-CM Code Set. The compliance date for ICD-10-CM is October 1, 2015. Clinical laboratories are typically required to submit health care claims with diagnosis codes to third party payers. The diagnosis codes must be obtained from the ordering physician. The failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to transition within the required timeframe could have an adverse impact on reimbursement, days sales outstanding and cash collections.

Compliance with the HIPAA security regulations and privacy regulations may increase the Company’s costs.

The HIPAA privacy and security regulations, including the expanded requirements under HITECH, establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the use and disclosure of protected health information by health plans, health care providers and health care clearinghouses, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and security of protected health information. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including:

•the circumstances under which the use and disclosure of protected health information are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, activities to obtain payments for the Company’s services, and its health care operations activities;

•a patient’s rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of protected health information;

•the content of notices of privacy practices for protected health information;

•administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive protected health information; and

•the protection of computing systems maintaining ePHI.

The Company has implemented policies and procedures related to compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security regulations, as required by law. The privacy and security regulations establish a “floor” and do not supersede state laws that are more stringent. Therefore, the Company is required to comply with both federal privacy and security regulations and varying state privacy and security laws. In addition, for health care data transfers from other countries relating to citizens of those countries, the Company must comply with the laws of those other countries. The federal privacy regulations restrict the Company’s ability to use or disclose patient identifiable laboratory data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment or health care operations (as defined by HIPAA), except for disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, provides for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of protected health information in violation of the privacy and security regulations, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Due to the enactment of HITECH, it is not possible to predict what the extent of the impact on business will be; however, if the Company does not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to protecting the privacy and security of health information it could be subject to monetary fines, civil penalties or criminal sanctions. In addition, other federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of patient information may be subject to enforcement and interpretations by various governmental authorities and courts resulting in complex compliance issues. For example, the Company could incur 

 31

Index

damages under state laws pursuant to an action brought by a private party for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information.

Increased competition, including price competition, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability.

The clinical laboratory business is intensely competitive both in terms of price and service. Pricing of laboratory testing services is often one of the most significant factors used by health care providers and third-party payers in selecting a laboratory. As a result of the clinical laboratory industry undergoing significant consolidation, larger clinical laboratory providers are able to increase cost efficiencies afforded by large-scale automated testing. This consolidation results in greater price competition. The Company may be unable to increase cost efficiencies sufficiently, if at all, and as a result, its net earnings and cash flows could be negatively impacted by such price competition. The Company may also face increased competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry. Additionally, the Company may also face changes in fee schedules, competitive bidding for laboratory services or other actions or pressures reducing payment schedules as a result of increased or additional competition.

Discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products; failure to develop, or acquire, licenses for new or improved testing technologies; or the Company’s customers using new technologies to perform their own tests could adversely affect the Company’s business.

From time to time, manufacturers discontinue or recall reagents, test kits or instruments used by the Company to perform laboratory testing. Such discontinuations or recalls could adversely affect the Company’s costs, testing volume and revenue.

The clinical laboratory industry is subject to changing technology and new product introductions. The Company’s success in maintaining a leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies will depend, in part, on its ability to develop, acquire or license new and improved technologies on favorable terms and to obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement for these technologies. The Company may not be able to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements and it cannot be certain that such arrangements will yield commercially successful diagnostic tests. If the Company is unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, its research and development costs may increase as a result. In addition, if the Company is unable to license new or improved technologies to expand its esoteric testing operations, its testing methods may become outdated when compared with the Company’s competition and testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely affected.

In addition, advances in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective technologies such as point-of-care testing equipment that can be operated by physicians or other health care providers in their offices or by patients themselves without requiring the services of freestanding clinical laboratories. Development of such technology and its use by the Company’s customers could reduce the demand for its laboratory testing services and negatively impact its revenues.

Currently, most clinical laboratory testing is categorized as “high” or “moderate” complexity, and thereby is subject to extensive and costly regulation under CLIA. The cost of compliance with CLIA makes it impractical for most physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices, and other laws limit the ability of physicians to have ownership in a laboratory and to refer tests to such a laboratory. Manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care laboratory equipment to physicians and by selling test kits approved for home or physician office use to both physicians and patients. Diagnostic tests approved for home use are automatically deemed to be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office laboratories as well as by patients in their homes with minimal regulatory oversight. Other tests meeting certain FDA criteria also may be classified as “waived” for CLIA purposes. The FDA has regulatory responsibility over instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories and has taken responsibility from the Centers for Disease Control for classifying the complexity of tests for CLIA purposes. Increased approval of “waived” test kits could lead to increased testing by physicians in their offices or by patients at home, which could affect the Company’s market for laboratory testing services and negatively impact its revenues.

Health care reform and related products (e.g. Health Insurance Exchanges), changes in government payment and reimbursement systems, or changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms and evolving delivery models, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's net revenues, profitability and cash flow.

Testing services are billed to private patients, Medicare, Medicaid, commercial clients, managed care organizations ("MCOs") and other insurance companies. Tests ordered by a physician may be billed to different payers depending on the medical insurance benefits of a particular patient. Most testing services are billed to a party other than the physician or other authorized person that ordered the test. Increases in the percentage of services billed to government and managed care payers could have an adverse 

 32

Index

impact on the Company’s net revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2014, requisitions (based on the total volume of requisitions excluding the Company's Other segment) by payer were:

•private patients – 1.3%

•Medicare and Medicaid – 14.4%

•commercial clients – 34.6%

•managed care – 49.7%

The various MCOs have different contracting philosophies, which are influenced by the design of the products they offer to their members. Some MCOs contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and engage in direct negotiation of the rates reimbursed to participating laboratories. Other MCOs adopt broader networks with a generally largely uniform fee structure for participating clinical laboratories. In addition, some MCOs have used capitation in an effort to fix the cost of laboratory testing services for their enrollees. Under a capitated reimbursement mechanism, the clinical laboratory and the managed care organization agree to a per member, per month payment to pay for all authorized laboratory tests ordered during the month by the physician for the members, regardless of the number or cost of the tests actually performed. Capitation shifts the risk of increased test utilization (and the underlying mix of testing services) to the clinical laboratory provider. The Company makes significant efforts to ensure that its services are adequately compensated in its capitated arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2014, such capitated contracts accounted for approximately $211.1 million, or 3.7%, of the Company's net sales.

The Company's ability to attract and retain managed care clients is critical given the impact of health care reform, related products and expanded coverage (e.g. Health Insurance Exchanges and Medicaid Expansion) and evolving delivery models (e.g. Accountable Care Organizations).

A portion of the managed care fee-for-service revenues are collectible from patients in the form of deductibles, copayments and coinsurance. As patient cost-sharing increases, collectibility may be impacted.

In addition, Medicare and Medicaid and private insurers have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of health care services, including clinical laboratory services. Measures to regulate health care delivery in general, and clinical laboratories in particular, have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by increasing complexity and adding new regulatory and administrative requirements. Pursuant to legislation passed in late 2003, the percentage of Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare managed care plans has increased. The percentage of Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care plans has also increased, and is expected to continue to increase. Implementation of the ACA, the health care reform legislation passed in 2010, also may affect coverage, reimbursement, and utilization of laboratory services, as well as administrative requirements.

The Company also experienced delays in the pricing and implementation of new molecular pathology codes among various payers, including Medicaid, Medicare and commercial carriers. While some delays were expected, several non-commercial payers required an extended period of time to price key molecular codes and a number of those payers, mostly government entities, indicated that they would no longer pay for tests that they had previously covered. Further, several payers are requiring additional information to process claims or have implemented prior authorization policies. Many commercial payers were delayed in becoming aware of the impact of their claim edits and policies which impeded access to services which previously have been covered and reimbursed. These delays had a negative impact on 2014 revenue, revenue per requisition, margins and cash flows and are expected to have a continuing negative impact. Similarly, coding changes related to toxicology and other procedures are being implemented in 2015 and Palmetto has published a revised Drugs of Abuse Local Coverage Policy which, if implemented as written, would adversely impact the Company's Medicare revenue. The policy has been delayed several times. It is currently published to be effective April 1, 2015 and it is not clear what policies Medicaid and Managed Care organizations may implement in response. The Company expects delays in the pricing and implementation of the new toxicology codes and it is unclear what impact will be experienced related to price and margins.

The Company expects efforts to impose reduced reimbursement, more stringent payment policies and utilization and cost controls by government and other payers to continue. If the Company cannot offset additional reductions in the payments it receives for its services by reducing costs, increasing test volume and/or introducing new procedures, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues, profitability and cash flows.

As an employer, health care reform legislation also contains numerous regulations that will require the Company to implement significant process and record keeping changes to be in compliance. These changes increase the cost of providing health care coverage to employees and their families. Given the limited release of regulations to guide compliance, the exact impact to employers including the Company is uncertain.

 33

Index

A failure to obtain and retain new customers, a loss of existing customers or material contracts, a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers, or the inability to retain existing and create new relationships with health systems could impact the Company’s ability to successfully grow its business.

To offset efforts by payers to reduce the cost and utilization of clinical laboratory services, the Company needs to obtain and retain new customers and business partners. In addition, a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers, without offsetting growth in its customer base, could impact the Company’s ability to successfully grow its business and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability. The Company competes primarily on the basis of the quality of testing, reporting and information systems, reputation in the medical community, the pricing of services and ability to employ qualified personnel. The Company’s failure to successfully compete on any of these factors could result in the loss of customers and a reduction in the Company’s ability to expand its customer base.

In addition, as the broader health care industry trend of consolidation continues, including the acquisition of physician practices by health systems, relationships with hospital-based health systems and integrated delivery networks are becoming more important. The Company has a well-established base of relationships with those systems and networks, including collaborative agreements. The Company's inability to retain its existing relationships with those provider systems and networks and to create new relationships could impact its ability to successfully grow its business.

A failure to identify and successfully close and integrate strategic acquisition targets could have a material adverse impact on the Company's business objectives and its net revenues and profitability.

Part of the Company's strategy involves deploying capital in investments that enhance the Company's business, which includes pursuing strategic acquisitions to strengthen the Company's scientific capabilities, grow esoteric testing capabilities and increase presence in key geographic areas. Since 2009, the Company has invested approximately $7.9 billion in strategic business acquisitions for these purposes. However, the Company cannot assure that it will be able to identify acquisition targets that are attractive to the Company or that are of a large enough size to have a meaningful impact on the Company's operating results. Furthermore, the successful closing and integration of a strategic acquisition entails numerous risks, including, among others:

•failure to obtain regulatory clearance, including due to antitrust concerns;

•loss of key customers or employees;

•difficulty in consolidating redundant facilities and infrastructure and in standardizing information and other systems;

•unidentified regulatory problems;

•failure to maintain the quality of services that such companies have historically provided;

•coordination of geographically-separated facilities and workforces; and

•diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day business of the Company.

The Company cannot assure that current or future acquisitions, if any, or any related integration efforts will be successful, or that the Company's business will not be adversely affected by any future acquisitions, including with respect to net revenues and profitability. Even if the Company is able to successfully integrate the operations of businesses that it may acquire in the future, the Company may not be able to realize the benefits that it expects from such acquisitions.

Adverse results in material litigation matters could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business.

The Company may become subject in the ordinary course of business to material legal action related to, among other things, intellectual property disputes, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries and requests for information from governmental agencies and bodies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers requesting comment and/or information on allegations of billing irregularities or billing and pricing arrangements that are brought to their attention through billing audits or third parties. Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as damage to the Company’s reputation with customers, which could have a material adverse effect upon its business.

An inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business.

The loss of key management personnel or the inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified employees at the Company’s clinical laboratories and research centers could adversely affect the business. The success of the Company is dependent in part on the efforts of key members of its management team. Success in maintaining the Company’s leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies will depend in part on the Company’s ability to attract and retain skilled research professionals. 

 34

Index

In addition, the success of the Company’s clinical laboratories also depends on employing and retaining qualified and experienced laboratory professionals, including specialists, who perform clinical laboratory testing services. In the future, if competition for the services of these professionals increases, the Company may not be able to continue to attract and retain individuals in its markets. The Company’s revenues and earnings could be adversely affected if a significant number of professionals terminate their relationship with the Company or become unable or unwilling to continue their employment.

Unionization of employees, union strikes, or work stoppages could adversely affect the Company's operations and have a material effect upon the Company's business.

The Company is a party to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. Disputes with regard to the terms of these agreements or its potential inability to negotiate acceptable contracts with these unions could result in, among other things, labor unrest, strikes, work stoppages, or other slowdowns by the affected workers. If unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown, or other employees were to become unionized, the Company could experience a significant disruption of its operations or higher ongoing labor costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's business. Additionally, future labor agreements, or renegotiation of labor agreements or provisions of labor agreements, could compromise its service reliability and significantly increase its costs, which could have a material adverse impact upon the Company's business.

A significant increase in the Company’s days sales outstanding could increase bad debt expense and have an adverse effect on the Company’s business including its cash flow.

Billing for laboratory services is a complex process. Laboratories bill many different payers including doctors, patients, hundreds of insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid and employer groups, all of which have different billing requirements. In addition to billing complexities, the Company is experiencing increasing patient responsibility as a result of managed care fee-for-service plans which continue to increase patient copayments, coinsurance and deductibles. A material increase in the Company’s days sales outstanding level (“DSO”) resulting in an increase in the Company’s bad debt expense could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business including its cash flow.

Failure in the Company’s information technology systems or delays or failures in the development and implementation of the Company's LabCorp Beacon® platform could significantly increase testing turn-around time or billing processes and otherwise disrupt the Company’s operations or customer relationships.

The Company’s laboratory operations and customer relationships depend, in part, on the continued performance of its information technology systems. Despite network security measures and other precautions the Company has taken, its information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptions. In addition, the Company is in the process of integrating the information technology systems of its recently acquired subsidiaries, and the Company may experience system failures or interruptions as a result of this process. Sustained system failures or interruption of the Company’s systems in one or more of its laboratory operations could disrupt the Company’s ability to process laboratory requisitions, perform testing, provide test results in a timely manner and/or bill the appropriate party. The Company is also continuing to enhance its LabCorp Beacon platform and could experience delays or deficiencies in the development process. Failure of the Company’s information technology systems could adversely affect the Company’s business, profitability and financial condition.

Operations may be disrupted and adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as adverse weather and earthquakes, or acts of terrorism, or other criminal activities, or disease pandemics.

Such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek laboratory testing services. In addition, such events may temporarily interrupt the Company’s ability to transport specimens, the Company’s information technology systems, the Company’s ability to utilize certain laboratories, and/or the Company’s ability to receive material from its suppliers.

A significant deterioration in the economy could negatively impact testing volumes, cash collections and the availability of credit.

The Company’s operations are dependent upon ongoing demand for diagnostic testing services by patients, physicians, hospitals, MCOs, and others. A significant downturn in the economy could negatively impact the demand for diagnostic testing as well as the ability of patients and other payers to pay for services ordered. In addition, uncertainty in the credit markets could reduce the availability of credit and impact the Company’s ability to meet its financing needs in the future.

 35

Index

Hardware and software failures, delays in the operation of computer and communications systems, the failure to implement system enhancements or cyber security breaches may harm the Company.

The Company's success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of its computer and communications systems. A failure of the network or data gathering procedures could impede the processing of data, delivery of databases and services, client orders and day-to-day management of the business and could result in the corruption or loss of data. While certain operations have appropriate disaster recovery plans in place, there currently are not redundant facilities everywhere in the world to provide IT capacity in the event of a system failure. Despite any precautions the Company may take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins, cybersecurity breaches and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to the servers and from the servers to clients. In addition, any failure by the computer environment to provide required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in service. In the event of a delay in the delivery of data, the Company could be required to transfer data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. Such a transfer could result in delays in the ability to deliver products and services to clients. Additionally, significant delays in the planned delivery of system enhancements, improvements and inadequate performance of the systems once they are completed could damage the Company's reputation and harm the business. Finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities, acts of terrorism (particularly involving cities in which the Company has offices) and cybersecurity breaches could adversely affect the business. Although the Company carries property and business interruption insurance, the coverage may not be adequate to compensate for all losses that may occur.

Changes in reimbursement by foreign governments and foreign currency exchange fluctuations could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business.

The Company has business and operations outside the U.S. Changes by foreign governments in reimbursement for the Company’s services and foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business.

The Company's growing international operations could subject it to additional risks and expenses that could adversely impact the business or results of operations.

The expansion of the Company's international operations exposes it to risks from failure to comply with foreign laws and regulations that differ from those under which the Company operates in the U.S. In addition, the Company may be adversely affected by other risks of expanded operations in foreign countries, including export controls and trade regulations, changes in tax policies or other foreign laws, restrictions on currency repatriation, judicial systems that less strictly enforce contractual rights, countries that provide less protection for intellectual property rights, and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, reimbursement and marketing of products and services. Further, international operations could subject the Company to additional expenses that the Company may not fully anticipate, including those related to enhanced time and resources necessary to comply with foreign laws and regulations, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods, and difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations. In some countries, the Company's success will depend in part on its ability to form relationships with local partners. The Company's inability to identify appropriate partners or reach mutually satisfactory arrangements could adversely affect the business and operations.

Risks Associated with Company’s Acquisition of Covance

In order to fund the Covance acquisition, the Company has materially reduced its cash balance and has taken on substantial additional indebtedness.

The Company completed the acquisition of Covance on February 19, 2015 (the "Acquisition"). To fund the consideration to be paid to Covance stockholders pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the Company used approximately $4.3 billion in cash and issued approximately 15.3 shares of the Company's common stock. On November 2, 2014, in connection with entering into the Merger Agreement with Covance, the Company entered into a bridge facility commitment letter. Under the bridge facility commitment letter, the lenders agreed to provide a $4.25 billion senior unsecured bridge term loan credit facility consisting of $3.85 billion 364-day unsecured bridge tranche and a $400.0 million 60-day unsecured cash bridge tranche for the purpose of financing all or a portion of the cash consideration and the fees and expenses in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. On December 19, 2014, the Company entered into a five-year term loan credit facility in the principal amount of $1.0 billion for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration and the fees and expenses in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Pursuant to the bridge facility commitment letter, upon the Company's entry into the term loan credit facility, the $4.25 billion bridge facility was reduced to a $3.25 billion commitment, comprising a $2.85 billion 364-day unsecured debt bridge tranche and a $400.0 million 60-day cash bridge tranche. The $1.0 billion of term loan commitments made under the term loan credit facility reduced the debt bridge tranche under the bridge facility dollar for 

 36

Index

dollar. The term loan credit facility was advanced in full on February 19, 2015, the date of the Company’s completion of the acquisition. 

On January 30, 2015, the Company issued $2.9 billion in debt securities, consisting of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.625% Senior Notes due 2020, $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.20% Senior Notes due 2022, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.60% Senior Notes due 2025 and $900.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.700% Senior Notes due 2045 (together, the “Acquisition Notes”). Net proceeds from the offering of the Acquisition Notes were $2,868.4 million after deducting underwriting discounts and other estimated expenses of the offering. Net proceeds were used to pay a portion of the cash consideration and the fees and expenses in connection with the Company’s acquisition of Covance. Pursuant to the bridge facility commitment letter, upon the Company’s issuance of the Acquisition Notes the remaining $2.85 billion 364-day unsecured debt bridge tranche under the senior unsecured bridge term loan credit facility was terminated. 

On February 13, 2015, the Company entered into a 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility in the principal amount of $400.0 million for the purpose of financing a portion of the cash consideration and the fees and expenses in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility was entered into on the terms set forth in the bridge facility commitment letter for the $400.0 million 60-day cash bridge tranche. The 60-day cash bridge term loan credit facility was advanced in full on February 19, 2015, the date of the Company’s completion of the Acquisition. 

The Company’s lower cash balance and increased indebtedness resulting from the acquisition financing could adversely affect its business. In particular, it could increase the Company’s vulnerability to sustained, adverse macroeconomic weakness, limit its ability to obtain further financing and limit its ability to pursue certain operational and strategic opportunities.

It may be difficult to integrate the business of Covance into the Company’s current business and the Company may fail to realize the anticipated revenue growth expected from the transaction, which could adversely affect its operating results and the market price of its common stock.

If the Company experiences greater than anticipated costs to integrate Covance Drug Development into its existing operations or is not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, its business and results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration process could result in the loss of key employees, errors or delays in systems implementation, the disruption of the Company’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Integration efforts also may divert management attention and resources.

These integration matters may have an adverse effect on the Company, particularly during any transition period. In addition, although Covance Drug Development is subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties that the Company faces in its business, the acquisition of Covance also involves the Company entering new product and services areas, markets and industries, which presents risks resulting from the Company’s relative inexperience in these new areas. Covance business’s laboratory testing business could react differently to economic and other external factors than the Company’s. The Company faces the risk that it will not be successful with these new products and services or in these new markets.

The success of the transaction will depend, in significant part, on the Company’s ability to successfully integrate the acquired business and realize the anticipated benefits to be derived from incorporating Covance Drug Development into its operations. The Company believes that the acquisition will provide an opportunity for revenue growth in development and commercialization of drugs and diagnostics, nutritional analysis and other areas, including a number of new business areas for the Company. Actual revenue growth, if any, may be lower than the Company expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated, and expenses may be higher than the Company expects. If the Company is not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, the value of its common stock may be adversely affected.

The Company has made certain assumptions relating to the Covance acquisition that may prove to be materially inaccurate.

The Company has made certain assumptions relating to the Covance acquisition that may prove to be materially inaccurate, including as a result of the failure to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition, a longer acquisition and transition process than expected, higher than expected transaction and integration costs and unknown liabilities, or general economic and business conditions that could adversely affect the combined company following the acquisition. These assumptions relate to numerous matters, including:

•the Company’s assessments of the asset quality and value of Covance and its assets;

•projections of the business and Covance Drug Development's future financial performance;

 37

Index

•the Company’s ability to realize synergies and the timeline for doing so;

•acquisition costs, including restructuring charges and transaction costs;

•the Company’s ability to develop, maintain and deepen relationships with Covance Drug Development's customers; and

•other financial and strategic risks of the acquisition.

If one or more of these assumptions are incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and operating results, and the expected benefits from the acquisition may not be realized.

The Company incurred significant transaction and acquisition-related costs in connection with the Acquisition. 

The Company has incurred and expects to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the Acquisition. These costs and expenses include fees paid to financial, legal and accounting advisors, facilities and systems consolidation costs, severance and other potential employment-related costs, including payments that may be made to certain Covance business' executives, filing fees, printing expenses and other related charges. There are also a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that the Company intends to integrate in connection with the Acquisition and the integration of the two companies’ businesses. While the Company has assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred in connection with the Acquisition and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, there are many factors beyond its control that could affect the total cost or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses. 

 There may also be additional and significant unanticipated costs in connection with the Acquisition that the Company may not be able to recoup. These costs and expenses could reduce the realization of efficiencies, strategic benefits and additional income the Company expects to achieve from the Acquisition. Although the Company believes that these expected benefits will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, a net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all. 

The Acquisition may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to the Company's earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of the Company's common stock.

Because shares of the Company's common stock were issued in the Acquisition, it is possible that the Acquisition will be dilutive to the Company's earnings per share, which could negatively affect the market price of shares of the Company's common stock. In addition, future events and conditions could increase the dilution of the Company's earnings as determined under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") that is currently projected, including adverse changes in market conditions, additional transaction and integration-related costs and other factors such as the failure to realize some or all of the benefits anticipated in the Acquisition. Any dilution of, or delay of any accretion to, the Company's earnings per share, should cause the price of shares of the Company's common stock to decline or grow at a reduced rate. 

Covance Drug Development is subject to uncertainties related to the acquisition that could adversely affect its financial results and ability to retain key employees.

Uncertainty about the effect of the acquisition on Covance Drug Development's customers, employees or suppliers may have an adverse effect on Covance. Although Covance Drug Development has taken steps to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair its ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the acquisition is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause disruptions in its relationships with customers, suppliers and other parties with which it deals.

In particular, the Company considers Covance Drug Development's strong management team an attractive aspect of Covance. The loss of members of Covance Drug Development's senior management team could have an adverse effect on the Company’s ability to operate Covance Drug Development and integrate it into the Company’s consolidated operations. Retention of these key members may be particularly challenging prior to and even for a period after the completion of the acquisition, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles. If, despite retention and recruiting efforts, key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with Covance Drug Development, its business operations and financial results could be adversely affected.

The Company also expects that matters relating to the acquisition and integration-related issues will place a significant burden on the Company's and Covance Drug Development's management, employees and internal resources, which could otherwise have been devoted to other business opportunities and improvements.

 38

Index

Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical industry could decrease the need for certain services that Covance Drug Development provides. 

Following the Company's acquisition of Covance, a portion of its business involves assisting pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies navigate the regulatory drug approval process. Changes in regulations such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of simplified drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that Covance Drug Development has difficulty satisfying or that make its service less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for its services. Also, if government efforts to contain drug costs impact pharmaceutical and biotechnology company profits from new drugs, some of Covance Drug Development's customers may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on research and development. If health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursement for pharmaceutical products, some of Covance Drug Development's customers may spend less, or reduce their growth in spending on research and development. 

Covance Drug Development’s revenues depend on the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. 

Covance Drug Development's revenues depend greatly on the expenditures made by the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in research and development. In some instances, companies in these industries are reliant on their ability to raise capital in order to fund their research and development projects. Accordingly, economic factors and industry trends that affect Covance Drug Development's clients in these industries also affect Covance Drug Development. If companies in these industries were to reduce the number of research and development projects they conduct or outsource, whether through inability to raise capital, industry trends, economic conditions or otherwise, Covance Drug Development could be materially adversely affected.

Covance Drug Development may bear financial losses because many of its contracts are of a fixed price nature and may be delayed or terminated or reduced in scope for reasons beyond its control. 

Many of Covance Drug Development's contracts provide for services on a fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and they may be terminated or reduced in scope either immediately or upon notice. Cancellations may occur for a variety of reasons, including:

•the failure of products to satisfy safety requirements;

•unexpected or undesired results of the products;

•insufficient patient enrollment;

•insufficient investigator recruitment;

•the client’s decision to terminate the development of a product or to end a particular study; and

•Covance Drug Development's failure to perform properly its duties under the contract. 

The loss, reduction in scope or delay of a large contract or the loss, delay or conclusion of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect Covance Drug Development, although its contracts often entitle it to receive the costs of winding down the terminated projects, as well as all fees earned up to the time of termination. 

Covance Drug Development operates in a highly competitive industry. 

Competitors in the contract research organization industry range from small, limited-service providers to full service global contract research organizations. Covance Drug Development's main competition consists of in-house departments of pharmaceutical companies, full-service and functional contract research organizations, and, to a lesser degree, universities and teaching hospitals. Covance Drug Development competes on a variety of factors, including: 

•reputation for on-time quality performance and regulatory compliance;

•expertise and experience in specific areas; 

•scope of service offerings; 

•strengths in various geographic markets; 

•price; 

•technological expertise and efficient drug development processes; 

•quality of facilities; 

•ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in an accurate manner; 

•ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both domestically and internationally; 

•expertise and experience in market access services; and 

•size. 

For instance, certain of Covance Drug Development's services have from time-to-time experienced periods of increased price competition which had an adverse effect on a segment's profitability and consolidated net revenues and net income. 

There is competition among contract research organizations for both clients and potential acquisition candidates. Additionally, entities considering entering the contract research organization industry will find few barriers to entry, thus further increasing 

 39

Index

possible competition. These competitive pressures may affect the attractiveness of Covance Drug Development's services and could adversely affect its financial results and the financial results of the Company. 

Contract research services create a risk of liability. 

In contracting to work on drug development trials and studies, Covance Drug Development faces a range of potential liabilities, including: 

•errors or omissions that create harm during a trial to study volunteers or after trial to consumers of drug after regulatory approval of the drug;

•general risks associated with clinical pharmacology facilities, including negative consequences from the administration of drugs to clinical trial participants or the professional malpractice of clinical pharmacology medical care providers;

•errors or omissions from tests conducted for the agricultural, food, beverage and dietary supplement industries;

•risks that animals in Covance Drug Development's breeding facilities may be infected with diseases that may be harmful and even lethal to themselves and humans despite preventive measures contained in Covance business policies, including those for the quarantine and handling of imported animals; and

•errors and omissions during a trial that may undermine the usefulness of a trial or data from the trial or study or may delay the entry of a drug to the market. 

Covance Drug Development also contracts with physicians, also referred to as investigators, to conduct the clinical trials to test new drugs on human volunteers. These tests can create a risk of liability for personal injury or death to volunteers, resulting from negative reactions to the drugs administered or from professional malpractice by third party investigators. 

While Covance Drug Development endeavors to include in its contracts provisions entitling it to be indemnified or entitling it to a limitation of liability, these provisions do not uniformly protect Covance Drug Development against liability arising from certain of its own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. Covance Drug Development could be materially and adversely affected if it were required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim that is not covered by a contractual indemnification provision or in the event that a party who must indemnify it does not fulfill its indemnification obligations, or in the event that the damages and costs exceed Covance Drug Development insurance coverage. There can be no assurance that Covance Drug Development will be able to maintain sufficient insurance coverage on terms acceptable to it.

Covance Drug Development revenues and earnings are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.

Covance Drug Development derives a large portion of its net revenues from international operations. Since the Company's consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates from period to period will have an impact on reported results. In addition, in certain circumstances, Covance Drug Development may incur costs in one currency related to its services or products for which it is paid in a different currency. As a result, factors associated with international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could significantly affect Covance Drug Development's results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Actions of animal rights extremists may affect business.

Early development services utilize animals in preclinical testing of the safety and efficacy of drugs and also breed and sell animals for biomedical research. Such activities are required for the development of new medicines and medical devices under regulatory regimes in the United States, Europe, Japan and other countries. Acts of vandalism and other acts by animal rights extremists who object to the use of animals in drug development could have an adverse effect on the Covance Drug Development business.

Animal populations may suffer diseases that can damage Covance Drug Development's inventory, harm its reputation, result in decreased sales of research products or result in other liability. 

It is important that research products be free of diseases, including infectious diseases. The presence of diseases can distort or compromise the quality of research results, can cause loss of animals in Covance Drug Development's inventory, can result in harm to humans or outside animal populations if the disease is not contained to animals in inventory, or can result in other losses. Such results could harm Covance Drug Develpment's reputation or have an adverse effect on financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

 40

Index

Item 2. PROPERTIES