Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 

 We are exposed to potential fluctuations in earnings, cash flows, and the fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. To manage the risk from these exposures, we enter into a variety of derivative instruments. We do not enter into derivatives or financial instruments for trading purposes.  

 The following discussion describes our specific exposures and the strategies we use to manage these risks. See Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Principles and Practices" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments and derivatives.  

60 

 We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk from translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Our primary exposures are to the Euro, British Pound, the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar. We use over-the-counter ("OTC") options and forward contracts to reduce the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the translation of our foreign operations' financial statements.  

 Additionally, some of our foreign brokerage subsidiaries receive revenues in currencies that differ from their functional currencies. Our U.K. subsidiary earned approximately 44% of its 2010 revenue in U.S. dollars and 8% of its revenue in Euros, but most of its expenses are incurred in Pounds Sterling. Our policy is to convert into Pounds Sterling sufficient U.S. Dollar and Euro revenue to fund the subsidiary's Pound Sterling expenses using OTC options and forward exchange contracts. At December 31, 2010, we have hedged 41% and 74% of our U.K. subsidiaries' expected U.S. Dollar transaction exposure for the years ending December 31, 2011 and 2012, respectively. In addition, we have hedged 80% and 65% of our U.K. subsidiaries' expected Euro transaction exposures for the same time periods. We do not generally hedge exposures beyond three years.  

 We also use forward contracts to offset foreign exchange risk associated with foreign denominated inter-company notes.  

 The potential loss in future earnings from market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical 10% adverse change in year-end exchange rates would be $49 million and $40 million at December 31, 2011 and 2012, respectively.  

 Our businesses' income is affected by changes in international and domestic short-term interest rates. We monitor our net exposure to short-term interest rates and as appropriate, hedge our exposure with various derivative financial instruments. This activity primarily relates to brokerage funds held on behalf of clients in the U.S. and on the continent of Europe. A hypothetical, instantaneous parallel decrease in the year-end yield curve of 100 basis points would cause a decrease, net of derivative positions, of $32 million and $44 million to 2011 and 2012 pretax income, respectively. A corresponding increase in the year-end yield curve of 100 basis points would cause an increase, net of derivative positions, of $38 million and $42 million to 2011 and 2012 pretax income, respectively.  

 We have long-term debt outstanding with a fair market value of $4.2 billion and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This fair value was greater than the carrying value by $158 million at December 31, 2010, and $88 million greater than the carrying value at December 31, 2009. A hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would change the fair value by approximately 5% at both December 31, 2010 and 2009.  

 We have selected hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity market prices to illustrate the possible impact of these changes; we are not predicting market events. We believe these changes in rates and prices are reasonably possible within a one-year period.  

61 

     Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.