ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.  

Interest Rates. Our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). The Company’s policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. The following table summarizes information related to the Company’s interest rate market risk at December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

A change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average  

46  

Table of Contents 

 2016 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in the Company’s interest income of approximately $47 million during 2017.  

Commodity Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel). The price level of aircraft fuel can significantly affect the Company’s operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. Since 2014, the price of jet fuel has declined but remains volatile.  

Our operational and financial results can be significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. To provide adequate supplies of fuel, the Company routinely enters into purchase contracts that are customarily indexed to market prices for aircraft fuel, and the Company generally has some ability to cover short-term fuel supply and infrastructure disruptions at some major demand locations. The price of aircraft fuel has fluctuated substantially in the past several years and in order to lower its exposure to unpredictable increases in the market prices of aircraft fuel, the Company has historically hedged a portion of its planned fuel requirements. As of December 31, 2016, the Company did not have any outstanding fuel hedging contracts. The Company’s current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge its fuel consumption, although the Company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. The Company’s 2017 forecasted fuel consumption is presently approximately four billion gallons, and based on this forecast, a one dollar change in the price of a barrel of crude oil would change the Company’s annual fuel expense by approximately $95 million.  

Foreign Currency. The Company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Company’s results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. Some of the Company’s more significant foreign currency exposures include the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, European euro, British pound and Japanese yen. The Company’s current strategy is to not enter into transactions to hedge its foreign currency sales, although the Company regularly reviews its policy based on market conditions and other factors. As of December 31, 2016, the Company did not have any foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding. The last of the Company’s foreign currency derivatives expired in December 2016.  

The result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2016 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the Company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $239 million for the year ending December 31, 2017. This sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2017 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of December 31, 2016.  

47  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.