PART I  

ITEM 1. Business. Parker-Hannifin Corporation is a leading worldwide full-line diversified manufacturer of motion and control technologies and systems, including fluid power systems, electromechanical controls and related components. Fluid power involves the transfer and control of power through the medium of liquid, gas or air, in hydraulic, pneumatic and vacuum applications. Fluid power systems move and position materials, control machines, vehicles and equipment and improve industrial efficiency and productivity. Components of a simple fluid power system include one or more pumps which generate pressure, one or more valves which control the flow of the fluid, one or more actuators which translate the pressure from the fluid into mechanical energy, one or more filters to ensure proper fluid condition and numerous hoses, couplings, fittings and seals. Electromechanical control involves the use of electronic components and systems to control motion and precisely locate or vary speed in automation and aerospace applications. In addition to motion control products, the Company also is a leading worldwide producer of fluid purification, fluid and fuel control, process instrumentation, air conditioning, refrigeration, electromagnetic shielding and thermal management products and systems.  

The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1938. Its principal executive offices are located at 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141, telephone (216) 896-3000. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless the context otherwise requires, the term “Company” or “Parker” refers to Parker-Hannifin Corporation and its subsidiaries.  

The Company’s investor relations internet website address is www.phstock.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing or furnishing such material electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on or accessible through the Company’s website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

The Board of Directors has adopted a written charter for each of the committees of the Board of Directors. These charters, as well as the Company’s Code of Ethics, Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues and Independence Standards for Directors, are posted and available on the Company’s investor relations internet website at www.phstock.com under the Corporate Governance page. Shareholders may request copies of these corporate governance documents, free of charge, by writing to Parker-Hannifin Corporation, 6035 Parkland Boulevard, Cleveland, Ohio 44124-4141, Attention: Secretary, or by calling (216) 896-3000.  

- 1 -  

The Company’s manufacturing, service, distribution and administrative facilities are located in 40 states and in 47 foreign countries. The Company’s motion control technology is used in the products of its three principal business segments: Industrial; Aerospace; and Climate & Industrial Controls. The products are sold as original and replacement equipment through product and distribution centers worldwide. The Company markets its products through direct-sales employees, independent distributors, sales representatives and builder/dealers. Parker products are supplied to approximately 449,000 customers in virtually every significant manufacturing, transportation and processing industry. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, total net sales were $12,145,605,482. Industrial Segment products accounted for 76%, Aerospace Segment products for 15%, and Climate & Industrial Controls Segment products for 9% of those net sales.  

Markets  

Motion control systems are used throughout industries in applications which include moving materials, controlling machines, vehicles and equipment and positioning materials during manufacturing processes. Motion control systems contribute to the efficient use of energy and improve industrial productivity.  

The approximately 449,000 customers who purchase the Company’s products are found throughout virtually every significant manufacturing, transportation and processing industry. No single customer accounted for more than 3% of the Company’s total net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.  

Industrial Segment. Sales of Industrial Segment products are made primarily to original equipment manufacturers and their replacement markets in all major manufacturing and processing industries. Major markets for products of the Fluid Connectors Group are aerial lift, agriculture, bulk chemical handling, construction machinery, food and beverage, fuel and gas delivery, industrial machinery, life science and medical, marine, mining, mobile, oil and gas, and transportation. Major markets for products of the Hydraulics Group are aerial lift, agriculture, alternative energy, construction machinery, forestry, industrial machinery, machine tool, marine, mining, oil and gas, power generation, and truck hydraulics. Major markets for products of the Automation Group are alternative energy, conveyor and material handling, factory automation, life science and medical, machine tool, packaging machinery, paper machinery, plastics machinery and conversion, primary metal, safety and security, semiconductor and electronic, and transportation and automotive. Major markets for products of the Seal Group are aerospace, chemical processing, consumer, energy, oil and gas, fluid power, general industrial, information technology, life science, military, semiconductor, telecommunication, and transportation. Major markets for products of the Instrumentation Group are chemical and refining, food and beverage, medical and dental, microelectronic, oil and gas, and power generation. Major markets for products of the Filtration Group are aerial lift, agriculture, bulk chemical handling, construction machinery, food and beverage, fuel and gas delivery, industrial machinery, life science and medical, marine, mining, mobile equipment, oil and gas, power generation, process, and transportation.  

Aerospace Segment. Sales of Aerospace Segment products are made primarily to original equipment manufacturers in the commercial, military and general aviation markets and to end users for maintenance, repair and overhaul. Major markets for products of the Aerospace Segment are business   

- 2 -  

 jet, defense, aircraft engine, general aviation, commercial transport, helicopter, missile and munition, launch vehicle, power generation, regional transport, unmanned aerial vehicle and aftermarket service.  

Climate & Industrial Controls Segment. Sales of Climate & Industrial Controls Segment products are made primarily to original equipment manufacturers and their replacement markets. Major markets for products of the Climate & Industrial Controls Segment are agriculture, air conditioning, appliance, food and beverage, industrial and commercial refrigeration, industrial machinery, oil and gas, life science and medical, precision cooling, process, supermarket, and transportation.  

Principal Products and Methods of Distribution  

Industrial Segment. The product lines of the Company’s Industrial Segment consist of a broad range of motion control and fluid systems and components. The Fluid Connectors Group manufactures a broad range of connectors which control, transmit and contain fluid, including the following: brass fittings and valves; deep sea umbilicals; diagnostic equipment; hose couplings; industrial hose; mooring systems and power cables; PTFE hose and tubing; quick couplings; check valves; rubber and thermoplastic hose; tube fittings and adapters; and tubing and plastic fittings. The Hydraulics Group produces a broad range of hydraulic components and systems for builders and users of industrial and mobile machinery and equipment, such as the following: accumulators; human machine interfaces; hydraulic cylinders; hydraulic motors and pumps; hydraulic systems; hydraulic valves and controls; hydrostatic steering units; integrated hydraulic circuits; power take-off equipment; power units; rotary actuators; and sensors. The Automation Group produces a broad range of pneumatic and electromechanical components and systems. Pneumatic products include the following: air preparation units; pneumatic accessories; pneumatic actuators and grippers; pneumatic valves and controls; structural extrusions; and vacuum generators, cups and sensors. Electromechanical products include the following: AC/DC drives and systems; electric actuators, gantry robots and slides; human-machine interfaces; manifolds; rotary actuators; and stepper motors, servo motors, drives and controls. The Seal Group manufactures static and dynamic sealing devices, including the following: dynamic seals; elastomeric o-rings; electro-medical instruments; electromagnetic interference shielding; extruded and precision-cut fabricated elastomeric seals; high-temperature metal seals; homogeneous and inserted elastomeric shapes; medical devices; metal and plastic retained composite seals; and thermal management products. The Seal Group also assembles static and dynamic sealing devices, including electro-medical instruments and medical devices. The Filtration Group manufactures filters, systems and instruments to monitor and remove contaminants from fuel, air, oil, water and other fluids and gases, including the following: analytical gas generators; compressed air and gas filters and dryers; condition monitoring devices; engine air, fuel and oil filtration and systems; hydraulic, lubrication and coolant filters; nitrogen, hydrogen and zero air generators; and process, chemical, water and microfiltration filters. The Instrumentation Group manufactures high quality critical flow components for process instrumentation, healthcare and ultra-high-purity applications, including the following: analytical sample conditioning products and systems; chemical injection fittings and valves; fluoropolymer chemical delivery fittings, valves and pumps; high-purity gas delivery fittings, valves, regulators and digital flow controllers; process control fittings, valves, regulators and manifold valves; process control double block and bleeds; permanent no-weld tube fittings; precision industrial regulators and flow controllers; and industrial mass flow meters/controllers.  

- 3 -  

Industrial Segment products include custom units which are engineered and produced to original equipment manufacturers’ specifications for application to a particular end product and standard items. Both custom and standard products are also used in the replacement of original motion control system components. Industrial Segment products are marketed primarily through field sales employees and approximately 9,850 independent distributors.  

Aerospace Segment. Principal products of the Company’s Aerospace Segment are cooling, hydraulic, fuel, and pneumatic systems and components used on commercial and military airframe and engine programs. The Aerospace Segment also manufactures a broad range of fluid conveyance systems and components, fluid metering, delivery and atomization devices, inert gas generating systems, as well as connectors, hoses, fittings, tube fittings and quick disconnects which control, transmit and contain fluid for aircraft applications.  

The Aerospace Segment offers complete hydraulic and primary flight control systems and components that include hydraulic, electrohydraulic and electromechanical components used for precise control of aircraft rudders, elevators, ailerons and other aerodynamic control surfaces and utility hydraulic components such as reservoirs, accumulators, selector valves, electrohydraulic servo valves, thrust-reverser actuators, engine-driven pumps, motor pumps, nose wheel steering systems, electromechanical actuators, engine controls and electronic controllers. The Aerospace Segment also designs and manufactures aircraft wheels and brakes for general aviation and military markets.  

The Aerospace Segment fuel product line includes complete fuel systems and components such as the following: fuel tank inerting systems; fuel transfer and pressurization controls; in-flight refueling systems; fuel pumps and valves; fuel measurement and management systems; center of gravity controls; engine fuel injection atomization nozzles, manifolds and augmentor controls; and electronic monitoring computers.  

The Aerospace Segment produces various pneumatic systems and components including the following: bleed air control systems; pressure regulators; low-pressure pneumatic controls; engine starter systems; engine bleed control and anti-ice systems; and electronic control and monitoring computers.  

Aerospace Segment products are marketed by the Company’s regional sales organization and are sold directly to manufacturers and end users.  

Climate & Industrial Controls Segment. The principal products of the Company’s Climate & Industrial Controls Segment are systems and components for use primarily in the mobile and stationary refrigeration and air conditioning industry, and systems and components for use in fluid control applications in a wide variety of industries including processing, fuel dispensing, beverage dispensing and mobile emissions. The products include accumulators, CO2 controls, electronic controllers, filter driers, hand shut-off valves, heat exchangers, hose and fittings, pressure regulating valves, refrigerant distributors, safety relief valves, solenoid valves, and thermostatic expansion valves.  

Climate & Industrial Controls Segment products are marketed primarily through field sales employees and independent distributors and wholesalers.  

- 4 -  

Competition  

All aspects of the Company’s business are highly competitive. No single manufacturer competes with respect to all products manufactured and sold by the Company and the degree of competition varies with different products. In the Industrial Segment, the Company competes on the basis of product quality and innovation, customer service, manufacturing and distribution capability, and price competitiveness. The Company believes that, in most of the major markets for its Industrial Segment products, it is one of the primary suppliers of motion control systems and components.  

In the Aerospace Segment, the Company has developed alliances with key customers based on the Company’s advanced technological and engineering capabilities, superior performance in quality, delivery, and service, and price competitiveness, which has enabled the Company to obtain significant original equipment business on new aircraft programs for its systems and components and, thereby, to obtain the follow-on repair and replacement business for these programs. The Company believes that it is one of the primary suppliers in the aerospace market.  

In the Climate & Industrial Controls Segment, the Company competes on the basis of product quality and innovation, customer service, manufacturing and distribution capability, and price competitiveness. The Company believes that it is one of the primary suppliers in the climate and industrial controls market.  

Research and Product Development  

The Company continually researches the feasibility of new products and services through its development laboratories and testing facilities in many of its worldwide manufacturing locations. Its research and product development staff includes chemists, mechanical, electronic and electrical engineers and physicists.  

Research and development costs relating to the development of new products and services and the improvement of existing products and services amounted to $303,097,752 in fiscal year 2008, $253,091,228 in fiscal year 2007, and $203,702,371 in fiscal year 2006. These amounts include costs incurred by the Company related to independent research and development initiatives as well as costs incurred in connection with research and development contracts. Costs incurred in connection with research and development contracts for each of the respective fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $47,757,134, $40,893,768 and $37,531,597. These costs are included in the total research and development cost for each of the respective years.  

Patents, Trademarks, Licenses  

The Company owns a number of patents, trademarks and licenses related to its products and has exclusive and non-exclusive rights to use a number of patents owned by others. In addition, patent applications on certain products are now pending, although there can be no assurance that patents will be issued. The Company is not dependent to any material extent on any single patent or group of patents.  

- 5 -  

Backlog and Seasonal Nature of Business  

The Company’s backlog by business segment for the past two fiscal years, as set forth on pages 13-5 to 13-7 of Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated into this section by reference. The Company’s backlog at June 30, 2008 was approximately $3,651,285,185 and at June 30, 2007 was approximately $2,935,232,549. Approximately 83% of the Company’s backlog at June 30, 2008 is scheduled for delivery in the succeeding twelve months. The Company’s business generally is not seasonal in nature.  

Environmental Regulation  

The Company is subject to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect the environment and to regulate the discharge of materials into the environment. Among other environmental laws, the Company is subject to the U.S. federal “Superfund” law, under which the Company has been designated as a “potentially responsible party” and may be liable for cleanup costs associated with various waste sites, some of which are on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Superfund priority list.  

As of June 30, 2008, the Company is involved in environmental remediation at 33 manufacturing facilities presently or formerly operated by the Company and has been named as a “potentially responsible party,” along with other companies, at one off-site waste disposal facility and three regional sites.  

The Company believes that its policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and the consequent financial liability to the Company. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations requires continuing management effort and expenditures by the Company. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations has not had in the past, and, the Company believes, will not have in the future, material effects on the capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position of the Company.  

As of June 30, 2008, the Company has a reserve of $16,022,463 for environmental matters which are probable and reasonably estimable. This reserve is recorded based upon the best estimate of costs to be incurred in light of the progress made in determining the magnitude of remediation costs, the timing and extent of remedial actions required by governmental authorities and the amount of the Company’s liability in proportion to other responsible parties.  

The Company’s estimated total liability for the above mentioned sites ranges from a minimum of $16,022,463 to a maximum of $79,633,043. The largest estimate for any one site is approximately $8,209,933. The actual costs to be incurred by the Company will be dependent on final delineation of contamination, final determination of remedial action required, negotiations with federal and state agencies with respect to cleanup levels, changes in regulatory requirements, innovations in investigatory and remedial technology, effectiveness of remedial technologies employed, the ultimate ability of the other responsible parties to pay, and any insurance or third-party recoveries.  

- 6 -  

Energy Matters and Sources and Availability of Raw Materials  

The Company’s primary energy source for each of its business segments is electric power. While the Company cannot predict future costs of such electric power, the primary source for production of the required electric power will be coal from substantial, proven coal reserves available to electric utilities. The Company is subject to governmental regulations in regard to energy supplies both in the United States and elsewhere. To date, the Company has not experienced any significant disruptions of its operations due to energy curtailments.  

Steel, brass, aluminum, elastomeric and thermoplastic materials and chemicals are the principal raw materials used by the Company. These materials are available from numerous sources in quantities sufficient to meet the requirements of the Company.  

Employees  

The Company employed 61,722 persons as of June 30, 2008, of whom approximately 31,920 were employed by foreign subsidiaries.  

Business Segment Information  

The Company’s net sales, segment operating income and identifiable assets by business segment and net sales and long-lived assets by geographic area for the past three fiscal years, as set forth on pages 13-14 to 13-15 of Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are incorporated into this section by reference.  

Acquisitions and Divestitures  

During fiscal year 2008, the Company completed a number of acquisitions. The description of these transactions, as set forth on pages 13-21 to 13-22 of Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, is incorporated into this section by reference.  

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.