PART I 

Item 1. Business 

Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative products and services around the world. We have approximately 36,000 employees worldwide. Textron Inc. was founded in 1923 and reincorporated in Delaware on July 31, 1967. Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Textron Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Textron Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 

We conduct our business through five operating segments: Textron Aviation, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial, which represent our manufacturing businesses, and Finance, which represents our finance business. A description of the business of each of our segments is set forth below. Our business segments include operations that are unincorporated divisions of Textron Inc. and others that are separately incorporated subsidiaries. Financial information by business segment and geographic area appears in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 66 through 68 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 19 through 35 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated. 

Textron Aviation Segment 

Textron Aviation is a leader in general aviation. Textron Aviation manufactures, sells and services Beechcraft and Cessna aircraft, and services the Hawker brand of business jets. The segment has two principal product lines: aircraft sales and aftermarket. Aircraft sales include business jets, turboprop aircraft, piston engine aircraft, and military trainer and defense aircraft. Aftermarket includes commercial parts sales, and maintenance, inspection and repair services. Revenues in the Textron Aviation segment accounted for approximately 36%, 36% and 33% of our total revenues in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Revenues for Textron Aviation’s principal lines of business were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The family of jets currently produced by Textron Aviation includes the Mustang, Citation M2, Citation CJ3+, Citation CJ4, Citation XLS+, Citation Latitude, Citation Sovereign+, and the Citation X+, the fastest civilian jet in the world. In addition, Textron Aviation is developing the Citation Longitude, a super-midsize jet which achieved first flight in October 2016 and is expected to enter into service in 2017, and the Citation Hemisphere, a large-cabin jet for which first flight is targeted in 2019. 

Textron Aviation’s turboprop aircraft include the Beechcraft King Air, which offers the King Air C90GTx, King Air 250, King Air 350ER and King Air 350i, and the Cessna Caravan, a utility turboprop. In addition, Textron Aviation recently announced the Cessna Denali, a high-performance single engine turboprop aircraft, which is targeted to achieve its first flight in 2018. Textron Aviation also offers the T-6 trainer, which is used to train pilots of more than 20 countries, and the AT-6 light attack military aircraft. 

Textron Aviation’s piston engine aircraft include the Beechcraft Baron and Bonanza, and the Cessna Skyhawk, Skylane, Turbo Stationair and the high performance TTx. 

The Scorpion was added to the Textron Aviation product line and will be included in this segment’s results beginning January 1, 2017. The Scorpion represents a highly affordable, multi-mission aircraft offering diverse capabilities including intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance, humanitarian assistance, disaster relief, advanced training and precision strike, designed primarily for the tactical military jet aviation market. The Scorpion has completed more than 800 flight hours, and the first flight of a production conforming aircraft was achieved in December 2016. Also, in 2016, we entered into a cooperative research and development agreement with the U.S. Air Force under which an airworthiness assessment of this aircraft will be performed. 

3 

Table of Contents 

In support of its family of aircraft, Textron Aviation operates a global network of 19 service centers, two of which are co-located with Bell Helicopter, along with more than 350 authorized independent service centers located throughout the world. Textron Aviation-owned service centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Textron Aviation also provides its customers with around-the-clock parts support and offers a mobile support program with over 60 mobile service units and several dedicated support aircraft. 

To further enhance its service capabilities, during 2016, Textron Aviation acquired Able Engineering and Component Services, Inc. and Able Aerospace, Inc., an industry-leading repair and overhaul business that provides component repairs, component exchanges and replacement parts, among other support and service offerings for commercial rotorcraft and fixed-wing aircraft customers around the world. 

Textron Aviation markets its products worldwide through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives. Textron Aviation has several competitors domestically and internationally in various market segments. Textron Aviation’s aircraft compete with other aircraft that vary in size, speed, range, capacity and handling characteristics on the basis of price, product quality and reliability, direct operating costs, product support and reputation. 

Bell Segment 

Bell Helicopter is one of the leading suppliers of military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and services in the world. Revenues for Bell accounted for approximately 23%, 26% and 31% of our total revenues in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Revenues by Bell’s principal lines of business were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and support to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the United States. Bell’s primary U.S. Government programs are the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters. Bell is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters to the U.S. Government and, in association with The Boeing Company (Boeing), the only supplier of military tiltrotor aircraft. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. Through its strategic alliance with Boeing, Bell produces and supports the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), and also for Japan under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program. The H-1 helicopter program includes a utility model, the UH-1Y, and an advanced attack model, the AH-1Z, which have 84% parts commonality between them. While the U.S. Marine Corps is the primary customer for H-1 helicopters, we have received orders for Pakistan under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program. 

Through its commercial business, Bell is a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters and support to corporate, offshore petroleum exploration and development, utility, charter, police, fire, rescue and emergency medical helicopter operators, and foreign governments. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types, including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The helicopters currently offered by Bell for commercial applications include the 206L-4, 407, 407GT, 407GXP, 412EP, 412EPI, 429 and Huey II. The new 505 Jet Ranger X, a short-light single helicopter, achieved certification in Canada at the end of 2016, with a follow-on Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification expected in the first quarter of 2017. In addition, Bell achieved first flight in 2015 for the 525 Relentless, its first super medium commercial helicopter. On July 6, 2016, one of the two test aircraft used in flight testing for the 525 Relentless helicopters crashed. We are cooperating fully with the National Transportation Safety Board in its investigation of the accident and working closely with the FAA on progressing toward certification of the 525. While we have temporarily suspended flight activity for the remaining test aircraft, other certification activities and production work on the 525 program continue. The timing of the aircraft’s certification and entry into service will be determined upon resumption of flight testing. 

For both its military programs and its commercial products, Bell provides post-sale support and service for an installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters through a network of six Bell-operated service centers, four global parts distribution centers and over 100 independent service centers located in 32 countries. Collectively, these service sites offer a complete range of logistics support, including parts, support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repair and overhaul, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, aircraft customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field service and product support engineering. 

4 

Table of Contents 

Bell competes against a number of competitors throughout the world for its helicopter business and its parts and support business. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support, performance and reputation. 

Textron Systems Segment 

Textron Systems’ product lines consist of unmanned aircraft systems, marine and land systems, weapons and sensors, simulation, training and other defense and aviation mission support products and services. 

Textron Systems is a supplier to the defense, aerospace and general aviation markets, and represents approximately 13%, 11% and 12% of our total revenues in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. This segment sells its products to U.S. Government customers and to customers outside the U.S. through foreign military sales sponsored by the U.S. Government and directly through commercial sales channels. Textron Systems competes on the basis of technology, contract performance, price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation. Revenues by Textron Systems’ product lines were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Unmanned Systems 

Unmanned Systems consists of the Unmanned Systems and Support Solutions businesses. The Unmanned Systems business has designed, manufactured and fielded combat-proven unmanned aircraft systems for more than 25 years. This business’s products include the U.S. Army’s premier tactical unmanned aircraft system, the Shadow, which surpassed one million flight hours during 2016, and the Aerosonde Small Unmanned Aircraft System, a multi-mission capable unmanned aircraft system that has amassed more than 150,000 flight hours in commercial and military operations around the world. In addition, its unmanned aircraft and interoperable command and control technologies provide critical situational awareness and actionable intelligence for users worldwide. Our Support Solutions business provides logistical support for various unmanned systems as well as training and supply chain services to government and commercial customers worldwide. 

Marine and Land Systems 

The Marine and Land Systems business is a world leader in the design, production and support of armored vehicles, turrets and related subsystems as well as advanced marine craft. It produces a family of extremely mobile, highly protective vehicles for the U.S. Army and international allies, and is developing the U.S. Navy’s next generation Landing Craft Air Cushion as part of the Ship-to-Shore Connector program. 

Weapons and Sensors 

The Weapons and Sensors business consists of state-of-the-art smart weapons, airborne and ground-based sensors and surveillance systems, and protection systems for the defense and aerospace industries. During the third quarter of 2016, as discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, we announced a plan to discontinue production of our sensor-fuzed weapon product by the end of the first quarter of 2017, with final deliveries to be completed by the end of 2017. 

Simulation, Training and Other 

Simulation, Training and Other includes six businesses: TRU Simulation + Training, Lycoming, Electronic Systems, Advanced Information Solutions, Geospatial Solutions and Textron Airborne Solutions. TRU Simulation + Training designs, develops, manufactures, installs, and provides maintenance of advanced flight training courseware and devices, including full flight simulators, for both rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft for commercial airlines, aircraft original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), flight training centers and training organizations worldwide. Through its training centers, TRU Simulation + Training provides initial type-rating and recurrency training for pilots, as well as maintenance training in its Aviation Maintenance Training Academy. Lycoming specializes in the engineering, manufacture, service and support of piston aircraft engines for the general aviation and remotely piloted aircraft markets. Electronic Systems provides high technology test equipment and electronic warfare test and training solutions. Advanced Information Solutions and Geospatial Solutions provide intelligence software solutions for U.S. and international defense, intelligence and law enforcement communities. Textron Airborne Solutions focuses on live military air-to-air and air-to-ship training and support services for U.S. Navy, Marine and Air Force pilots, and includes the recently acquired Airborne Tactical Advantage Company. 

5 

Table of Contents 

Industrial Segment 

Our Industrial segment designs and manufactures a variety of products within three principal product lines. Industrial segment revenues were as follows: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fuel Systems and Functional Components 

Our Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line is operated by our Kautex business unit, which is headquartered in Bonn, Germany. Kautex is a leading developer and manufacturer of blow-molded plastic fuel systems for cars, light trucks, all-terrain vehicles, windshield and headlamp washer systems for automobiles and selective catalytic reduction systems used to reduce emissions from diesel engines. Kautex serves the global automobile market, with operating facilities near its major customers around the world. Kautex also produces cast iron engine camshafts and develops and produces plastic bottles and containers for food, household, laboratory and industrial uses. Revenues of Kautex accounted for approximately 16%, 15% and 14% of our total revenues in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Our automotive products have several major competitors worldwide, some of which are affiliated with the OEMs that comprise our targeted customer base. Competition typically is based on a number of factors including price, technology, environmental performance, product quality and reliability, prior experience and available manufacturing capacity. 

Specialized Vehicles and Equipment 

Our Specialized Vehicles and Equipment product line includes the products designed, manufactured and sold by our Textron Specialized Vehicles and Jacobsen businesses. As discussed in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, the Jacobsen business is being combined into the Textron Specialized Vehicles business in order to optimize efficiencies and better serve their shared customers and distributors. The Specialized Vehicles and Equipment product line includes the E-Z-GO, Textron Off Road, TUG Technologies, Douglas Equipment, Ransomes, Jacobsen, Cushman, Dixie Chopper, and the recently acquired Premier and Safeaero, businesses and brands. The businesses in this product line design, manufacture and sell golf cars, off-road utility vehicles, light transportation vehicles, aviation ground support equipment and professional turf-maintenance equipment, as well as specialized turf-care vehicles. 

These businesses have a diversified customer base that includes golf courses and resorts, government agencies and municipalities, consumers, and commercial and industrial users such as factories, warehouses, airports, planned communities, hunting preserves, educational and corporate campuses, sporting venues, municipalities and landscaping professionals. Sales are made through a combination of factory direct resources and a network of independent distributors and dealers worldwide. We have two major competitors for both golf cars and professional turf-maintenance equipment, and several competitors for off-road and light transportation vehicles, aviation ground support equipment, and specialized turf-care products. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product features, product support and reputation. 

We recently entered into an agreement to acquire Arctic Cat Inc., a leader in the recreational vehicle industry. The company manufactures and markets all-terrain vehicles, side-by-sides and snowmobiles, in addition to related parts, garments and accessories under the Arctic Cat® and Motorfist® brand names. Subject to customary closing conditions, we expect the transaction to close in March 2017. 

Tools and Test Equipment 

The Tools and Test Equipment product line includes products sold by businesses that design and manufacture powered equipment, electrical test and measurement instruments, mechanical and hydraulic tools, cable connectors, fiber optic assemblies, underground and aerial transmission and distribution products and power utility products. These businesses also encompass the Greenlee, Greenlee Communications, Greenlee Utility, HD Electric, Klauke, Sherman+Reilly and Endura brand names, and their products are used principally in the construction, maintenance, telecommunications, data communications, electrical, utility and plumbing industries. Their products are distributed through a global network of sales representatives and distributors and are also sold directly to home improvement retailers and OEMs. The businesses have plant operations in five countries with almost half of their combined revenues coming from outside the United States. These businesses face competition from numerous manufacturers based primarily on price, delivery lead time, product quality and reliability. 

6 

Table of Contents 

Finance Segment 

Our Finance segment, or the Finance group, is a commercial finance business that consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Finance segment provides financing primarily to purchasers of new and pre-owned Textron Aviation aircraft and Bell helicopters. The majority of our finance receivables are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the U.S. Finance receivables originated in the U.S. are primarily for purchasers who had difficulty in accessing other sources of financing for the purchase of Textron-manufactured products. In 2016, 2015 and 2014, our Finance group paid our Manufacturing group $173 million, $194 million and $215 million, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties that were financed by the Finance group. 

The commercial finance business traditionally is extremely competitive. Our Finance segment is subject to competition from various types of financing institutions, including banks, leasing companies, commercial finance companies and finance operations of equipment vendors. Competition within the commercial finance industry primarily is focused on price, term, structure and service. 

Our Finance segment’s largest business risk is the collectability of its finance receivable portfolio. See “Finance Portfolio Quality” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 28 for information about the Finance segment’s credit performance. 

Backlog 

Our backlog at the end of 2016 and 2015 is summarized below: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Approximately 41% of our total backlog at December 31, 2016 represents orders that are not expected to be filled in 2017. 

At the end of 2016, approximately 61% of our total backlog was with the U.S. Government, which included only funded amounts as the U.S. Government is obligated only up to the amount of funding formally appropriated for a contract. Bell’s 2016 backlog included $1.7 billion related to a multi-year procurement contract with the U.S. Government for the purchase of V-22 tiltrotor aircraft. 

U.S. Government Contracts 

In 2016, approximately 25% of our consolidated revenues were generated by or resulted from contracts with the U.S. Government, excluding those contracts under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program. This business is subject to competition, changes in procurement policies and regulations, the continuing availability of funding, which is dependent upon congressional appropriations, national and international priorities for defense spending, world events, and the size and timing of programs in which we may participate. 

Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including, if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted and services rendered, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and an amount for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government may not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and may be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; (c) the U.S. Government may not be liable for assets we own and utilize to provide services under the “fee-for-service” contracts; and (d) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. 

Research and Development 

Information regarding our research and development expenditures is contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 47 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

7 

Table of Contents 

Patents and Trademarks 

We own, or are licensed under, numerous patents throughout the world relating to products, services and methods of manufacturing. Patents developed while under contract with the U.S. Government may be subject to use by the U.S. Government. We also own or license active trademark registrations and pending trademark applications in the U.S. and in various foreign countries or regions, as well as trade names and service marks. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole. Some of these trademarks, trade names and service marks are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, including: A-2PATS; Able Aerospace Services; Able Preferred; Aeronautical Accessories; AAI; acAlert; AirScout; Ascent; Aerosonde; AH-1Z; Ambush; AVCOAT; Baron; BattleHawk; Beechcraft; Beechcraft T-6; Bell; Bell CAP; Bell Customer Advantage Plan; Bell Helicopter; BENDWORKS; Bonanza; Bravo; Cadillac Gage; Caravan; Caravan Amphibian; Caravan 675; Cessna; Cessna 350; Cessna 400; Cessna Turbo Skylane JT-A; Cessna Turbo Skyhawk JT-A; Citation; CITATION ALPINE EDITION; Citation Encore+; Citation Latitude; Citation Longitude; Citation M2; Citation Sovereign; Citation X; Citation X+; Citation XLS+; CJ1+; CJ2+; CJ3; CJ3+; CJ4; Clairity; CLAW; CLEARTEST; Commando; Cushman; CUSV; DataScout; Denali; Dixie Chopper; Dixie Chopper Stryker; DoubleVision; Duct Dawg X; Eclipse; ENFORCER; Excel; E-Z-GO; E-Z-GO EXPRESS; FAST-N-LATCH; FASTRAP; Firefly; Fury; G3 Tugger; GatorEye; Gator Grips; GLOBAL MISSION SUPPORT; Gorilla; Grand Caravan; Greenlee; H-1; HAULER; HDE; Hawker; Hemisphere; Huey; Huey II; iCommand; iPress; IE2; Instinct; Integrated Command Suite; INTELLIBRAKE; INTELLI-CRIMP; Jacobsen; Jacobsen HoverKing; Jet Ranger X; Kautex; King Air; King Air C90GTx; King Air 250; King Air 350; Kiowa Warrior; Klauke; LF; Lycoming; M1117 ASV; MADE FOR THE TRADE; McCauley; Mechtronix; MicroObserver; Millenworks; Mission Critical Support (MCS); MissionLink (IVHM); Mustang; Next Generation Carbon Canister; Next Generation Fuel System; NGCC; NGFS; Odyssey; ONSLAUGHT; Overwatch; PDCue; Power Advantage; Premier; Pro-Fit; ProFlight; ProParts; ProPropeller; Ransomes; REALCue; REALFeel; Recoil; Relentless; ROCONNECT; RT2; RXV; SABER; Safeaero; Safe-Zone; Scorpion; Shadow; Shadow Knight; Shadow Master; Sherman+Reilly; Skyhawk; Skyhawk SP; Skylane; SkyPLUS; Sovereign; Speed Punch; Spider; Stampede; Stationair; ST 4X4; Super Cargomaster; Super Medium; SuperCobra; SYMTX; Synturian; TDCue; Textron; Textron Airborne Solutions; Textron Aviation; Textron Defense Systems; Textron Financial Corporation; Textron GSE; Textron Marine & Land Systems; Textron Off Road; Textron Systems; TI-Metal; TRUESET; TRU Simulation + Training; TRUCKSTER; TTx; TUG; Turbo Skylane; Turbo Stationair; UH-1Y; Under Dawg; V-Watch Connect; VALOR; Value-Driven MRO Solutions; V-22 Osprey; V-247; V-280; Watchman; Wolverine; 2FIVE; 206; 407; 407GT; 407GX; 412; 429; 505; 525 and 525 Relentless. These marks and their related trademark designs and logotypes (and variations of the foregoing) are trademarks, trade names or service marks of Textron Inc., its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures. 

Environmental Considerations 

Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment. Compliance with these laws and expenditures for environmental control facilities has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Additional information regarding environmental matters is contained in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 65 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

We do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on our business or markets nor on our results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. 

Employees 

At December 31, 2016, we had approximately 36,000 employees. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 22, 2017. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mr. Donnelly joined Textron in June 2008 as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer in January 2009. He was appointed to the Board of Directors in October 2009 and became Chief Executive Officer of Textron in December 2009, at which time the Chief Operating Officer position was eliminated. In July 2010, Mr. Donnelly was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors effective September 1, 2010. Previously, Mr. Donnelly was the President and CEO of General Electric Company’s Aviation business unit, a position he had held since July 2005. GE’s Aviation business unit is a leading maker of commercial and military jet engines and components, as well as integrated digital, electric power  

8 

Table of Contents 

and mechanical systems for aircraft. Prior to July 2005, Mr. Donnelly served as Senior Vice President of GE Global Research, one of the world’s largest and most diversified industrial research organizations with facilities in the U.S., India, China and Germany and held various other management positions since joining General Electric in 1989. 

Mr. Connor joined Textron in August 2009 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Previously, Mr. Connor was head of Telecom Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs & Co. from 2003 to 2008. Prior to that position, he served as Chief Operating Officer of Telecom, Technology and Media Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs & Co. from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Connor joined the Corporate Finance Department of Goldman, Sachs & Co. in 1986 and became a Vice President in 1990 and a Managing Director in 1996. 

Ms. Johnson was named Executive Vice President, Human Resources in July 2012. Ms. Johnson joined Textron in 1996 and has held various human resources leadership positions across Textron’s businesses, including Senior Human Resources Business Partner for Greenlee and Vice President of Human Resources for E-Z-GO, a position she held from 2006 until joining Bell in 2009. At Bell, she most recently served as Director of Talent and Organizational Development. Prior to Textron, Ms. Johnson held roles in human resources, marketing and sales, and finance disciplines at several organizations, including IBM and Hamilton Sundstrand, a United Technologies Company. 

Mr. Lupone joined Textron in February 2012 as Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer. Previously, he was senior vice president and general counsel of Siemens Corporation (U.S.) since 1999 and general counsel of Siemens AG for the Americas since 2008. Prior to joining Siemens in 1992, Mr. Lupone was vice president and general counsel of Price Communications Corporation. 

Available Information 

We make available free of charge on our Internet Web site (www.textron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Forward-Looking Information 

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, which may describe strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures, often include words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “guidance,” “project,” “target,” “potential,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “likely” or “may” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors described herein under “Risk Factors,” among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results are the following: 

· Interruptions in the U.S. Government’s ability to fund its activities and/or pay its obligations; 

· Changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget, including those related to military operations in foreign countries; 

· Our ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the U.S. Government; 

· The U.S. Government’s ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us for the U.S. Government’s convenience or for our failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, or, under certain circumstances, to withhold payment or suspend or debar us as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards; 

· Changes in foreign military funding priorities or budget constraints and determinations, or changes in government regulations or policies on the export and import of military and commercial products; 

· Volatility in the global economy or changes in worldwide political conditions that adversely impact demand for our products; 

· Volatility in interest rates or foreign exchange rates; 

· Risks related to our international business, including establishing and maintaining facilities in locations around the world and relying on joint venture partners, subcontractors, suppliers, representatives, consultants and other business partners in connection with international business, including in emerging market countries; 

· Our Finance segment’s ability to maintain portfolio credit quality or to realize full value of receivables; 

· Performance issues with key suppliers or subcontractors; 

9 

Table of Contents 

· Legislative or regulatory actions, both domestic and foreign, impacting our operations or demand for our products; 

· Our ability to control costs and successfully implement various cost-reduction activities; 

· The efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products or unanticipated expenses in connection with the launching of significant new products or programs; 

· The timing of our new product launches or certifications of our new aircraft products; 

· Our ability to keep pace with our competitors in the introduction of new products and upgrades with features and technologies desired by our customers; 

· Pension plan assumptions and future contributions; 

· Demand softness or volatility in the markets in which we do business; 

· Cybersecurity threats, including the potential misappropriation of assets or sensitive information, corruption of data or operational disruption; 

· Difficulty or unanticipated expenses in connection with integrating acquired businesses; and 

· The risk that acquisitions do not perform as planned, including, for example, the risk that acquired businesses will not achieve revenues and profit projections. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors