PART I  

 Item 1. Business.  

Introduction  

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world’s largest home improvement retailer based on Net Sales for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2011 (“fiscal 2010”). The Home Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement and lawn and garden products and provide a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 105,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal 2010, we had 2,248 The Home Depot stores located throughout the United States including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam, Canada, China and Mexico. When we refer to “The Home Depot,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is (770) 433-8211.  

We maintain an Internet website at www.homedepot.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.  

We include our website addresses throughout this filing only as textual references. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

1  

Table of Contents 

Our Business  

Operating Strategy. In fiscal 2010, we continued to invest in our business and made solid progress against our key initiatives. During the year, we introduced new technologies, continued the transformation of our supply chain and enhanced our on-line presence to provide a more interconnected retail experience for our customers. We continued to eliminate tasks to give associates more time with customers and provide enhanced customer service. At the same time, we remained focused on offering every day values in the stores. Finally, we continued our focus on disciplined capital allocation, expense control and increasing shareholder returns.  

Customers. The Home Depot stores serve three primary customer groups:  

   •    Do-It-Yourself (“D-I-Y”) Customers: These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations.  

   •    Do-It-For-Me (“D-I-F-M”) Customers: These customers are typically home owners who purchase materials themselves and hire third parties to complete the project or installation. We arrange for the installation of a variety of The Home Depot products through qualified independent contractors.  

   •    Professional Customers: These customers are primarily professional remodelers, general contractors, repairmen, small business owners and tradesmen. In many stores, we offer a variety of programs to these customers, including delivery and will-call services, dedicated staff and expanded credit programs, all of which we believe increase sales to these customers.  

Products. A typical Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 products during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary items. The following table shows the percentage of Net Sales of each major product group (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2010, we continued to introduce a number of innovative and distinctive products to our customers at highly attractive values. Examples of these new products include EcoSmart® LED light bulbs, Commercial Electric® electrical tools, Husky® tool bags, Platinum Plus™ carpeting and Ryobi® outdoor tools.  

To complement and enhance our product selection, we continued to form strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized brand names. During fiscal 2010, we offered a number of proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments including, but not limited to, Behr Premium Plus® paint, Hampton Bay® lighting, Vigoro® lawn care products, Husky® hand tools, RIDGID® and Ryobi® power tools and Glacier Bay® bath fixtures. We also continued our partnership with Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia to offer an exclusive Martha Stewart Living brand of home improvement products in select categories including outdoor living, paint, cabinetry, flooring, and shelving and storage. We may consider additional strategic alliances and relationships with other suppliers and will continue to assess opportunities to expand the range of products available under brand names that are exclusive to The Home Depot.  

2  

Table of Contents 

From our Store Support Center, we maintain a global sourcing merchandise program to source high-quality products directly from manufacturers around the world. Our merchant team identifies and purchases market leading innovative products directly for our stores. Additionally, we have three sourcing offices located in the Chinese cities of Shanghai, Shenzhen and Dalian, and offices in Gurgaon, India; Rome, Italy; Monterrey, Mexico and Toronto, Canada.  

Services. Our stores offer a variety of installation services. These services target D-I-F-M customers who select and purchase products and installation of those products from us. These installation programs include products such as carpeting, flooring, cabinets, countertops and water heaters. In addition, we provide professional installation of a number of products sold through our in-home sales programs, such as generators and furnace and central air systems.  

Stores.  

United States. At the end of fiscal 2010, we were operating 1,976 The Home Depot stores in the U.S., including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam. During fiscal 2010, we opened two new The Home Depot stores in the U.S., including one relocation, and closed one store.  

Canada. At the end of fiscal 2010, we were operating 179 The Home Depot stores in ten Canadian provinces.  

Mexico. At the end of fiscal 2010, we were operating 85 The Home Depot stores in Mexico. Of these stores, six were opened during fiscal 2010.  

China. At the end of fiscal 2010, we were operating eight The Home Depot stores in four Chinese cities. We closed two stores in China during fiscal 2010.  

Net Sales for the Company outside of the U.S. were $7.5 billion, $7.0 billion and $7.4 billion for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Long-lived assets outside of the U.S. totaled $3.2 billion, $3.0 billion and $2.8 billion as of January 30, 2011, January 31, 2010 and February 1, 2009, respectively.  

Store Support Services  

Information Technologies. During fiscal 2010, we continued to invest in our information technology to serve our customers more effectively and provide an improved overall shopping environment and experience. We also continued to invest in our supply chain and merchandising tools to improve inventory management capabilities.  

With regard to our supply chain and merchandising activities, in fiscal 2010 we completed the roll out of a warehouse management system into our flow distribution network, reduced freight costs by implementing transportation planning systems for both inbound and outbound shipments and continued improving inventory management capabilities by implementing a new inventory forecasting solution. Further, we provided additional tools and made improvements to existing tools utilized in merchandising systems to simplify set-up processes and provide more effective management of our distribution network.  

To better serve our customers and simplify store tasking, we completed deployment of our FIRST Phones across our stores in fiscal 2010, equipping our associates with devices that are at once portable computers, phones, walkie-talkies and portable registers that allow customers to check out using debit or credit cards. In addition, we are implementing new customer analytics capabilities to better understand customer behavior.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Credit Services. We offer private label credit products in our stores through a third-party credit provider to professional, D-I-Y and D-I-F-M customers. In fiscal 2010, approximately 2.5 million new The Home Depot private label credit accounts were opened, and the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 10 million. Private label credit card sales accounted for approximately 22% of store sales in fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2010, we also launched a home improvement loan program for D-I-F-M customers and introduced PayPal as a payment option for our online customers.  

Logistics. We continued our supply chain transformation in fiscal 2010 to ensure product availability for customers, effective use of our investment in inventory and optimal total supply chain costs. Across our supply chain operations in the U.S., we continued the restructuring of our distribution center network to meet the changing needs of our business, including our general distribution center space rationalization initiatives and the completion of the Rapid Deployment Center (“RDC”) roll out in the U.S. RDCs allow for aggregation of store product needs to a single purchase order, and then rapid allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon arrival at the center. This process allows improved transportation, simplified order processing at suppliers and last minute reallocation from the time that product needs at stores are determined to actual replenishment.  

As a result of the changes to our distribution network, in fiscal 2010 we added 2.9 million net square feet of distribution center space, primarily for new RDCs. At the end of fiscal 2010, we operated 30 bulk distribution centers and 34 conventional distribution centers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Additionally in fiscal 2010, we opened seven new RDCs in the U.S., bringing our total number of RDCs to 19. We now serve all of our U.S. stores from RDCs, with approximately 42% of our costs of sales on an annualized basis for those stores serviced through the RDCs. We remain committed to leveraging our supply chain capabilities to fully utilize and optimize our improved logistics network.  

Associates. At the end of fiscal 2010, we employed approximately 321,000 associates, of whom approximately 19,000 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. Approximately 59% of our associates are employed on a full-time basis. We believe that our employee relations are very good. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve.  

Intellectual Property. Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot® trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business. We also maintain patent portfolios relating to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our products or business operations.  

Quality Assurance Program. We have both quality assurance and engineering resources that are dedicated to overseeing the quality of all of our products, whether they are directly imported, locally- or globally-sourced or proprietary branded products. Through these programs, we have established criteria for supplier and product performance that are designed to ensure that our products comply with federal, state and local safety, quality and performance standards and to allow us to measure and track the timeliness of shipments. We also have a Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Program designed to ensure that our suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility.  

Environmental, Health & Safety (“EH&S”). We are committed to maintaining a safe environment for our customers and associates and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do business. Our EH&S function in the field is directed by trained associates focused primarily on the execution of the EH&S programs. Additionally, we have a Store Support Center-based team of dedicated EH&S professionals who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Environmental. The Home Depot is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our business, including store construction and maintenance, energy usage, supply chain, product selection and delivery of product knowledge to our customers.  

In fiscal 2010, we continued to implement strict operational standards that establish energy efficient practices in all of our facilities. These include HVAC unit temperature regulation and adherence to strict lighting schedules, which are the largest sources of energy consumption in our stores, as well as using energy management systems in each store to monitor energy efficiency. We estimate that by implementing and utilizing these energy saving programs, we have saved over 3.5 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) since 2004, enough to power approximately 320,000 U.S. homes for one year. We have achieved over a 16 percent reduction in kWh per square foot in our U.S. stores since 2004, and our goal is to achieve a 20 percent reduction in our U.S. stores by 2015, through our energy conservation initiatives. We have also partnered with the U.S. Green Building Council and have built seven Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design for New Construction (“LEED-NC”) certified and other similarly certified stores. In fiscal 2010, we began one of the largest retailer host solar programs in North America, installing solar panels on 62 of our North American store locations, capable of producing 21 megawatts.  

Through our supply chain efficiencies created by the actions described above under “Logistics,” we are targeting a 20 percent reduction in our domestic supply chain greenhouse gas emissions from 2008 to 2015, which would equate to annual fuel savings of approximately 25 million gallons or approximately 8,000 trips around the earth’s circumference. We have been recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency SmartWaySM Transport Partnership for our leadership in conserving energy and lowering greenhouse gas emission from our supply chain activities. In fiscal 2010, we also calculated our total carbon dioxide emissions for 2009 to allow us greater insight into our “carbon footprint” from the operation of our stores as well as from our transportation and supply chain activities.  

As the world’s largest home improvement retailer, we are in a unique position to enable our customers to achieve energy savings through our products and services. Through our Eco Options® Program introduced in 2007, we have created product categories that allow consumers to easily identify environmentally preferred product selections in our stores. Our Eco Options® Program has certified approximately 4,000 products that meet specifications for energy efficiency, water conservation, healthy home, clean air and sustainable forestry. Through this program, we sell products such as Energy Star® refrigerators, dishwashers, compact fluorescent light bulbs, programmable thermostats, water heaters and other products, enabling our customers to save on their utility bills. We also help our customers save water through sales of WaterSense®-labeled bath faucets, aerators and toilets. Our Eco Options® page on our website offers consumer education on environmental impacts of various products as well as identifying easy “green” D-I-Y projects. This online experience, coupled with our D-I-Y in-store how-to clinics on “green” projects and our continual enhancement of our Eco Options® product categories, helps us to meet a growing customer demand for environmentally responsible and cost-saving products and projects.  

We continue to offer our nationwide, in-store compact fluorescent light (CFL) bulb recycling program launched in June 2008. This service is offered to customers free of charge and is available in all U.S. stores. We also maintain an in-store rechargeable battery recycling program. Launched in 2001 in partnership with the Rechargeable Battery Recycling Corporation, this program is also available to customers free of charge in all U.S. and Canada stores. Through these recycling programs, in fiscal 2010 we helped recycle over 700,000 pounds of CFL bulbs and over 620,000 pounds of rechargeable batteries collected from our customers. In fiscal 2010, we also recycled over 120,000 lead acid batteries collected from our customers under our lead acid battery exchange program, as well as approximately 160,000 tons of cardboard through a nationwide cardboard recycling program across our U.S. stores.  

Seasonality. Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Competition. Our business is highly competitive, based primarily on customer service, price, store location and assortment of merchandise. In each of the markets we serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and, to a lesser extent, other retailers. Due to the variety of competition we face, we are unable to precisely measure the impact on our sales by our competitors.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.