Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Our primary exposures to market risks are related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We seek to manage exposure to changes in interest rates where economically prudent to do so by utilizing fixed rate debt. We do not currently hedge against foreign currency exchange risks.

Interest Rate Risk

Our interest rate risk relates primarily to the impact of interest rate movements on the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•our $3.3 billion of floating rate debt representing approximately 29% of total debt compared to 13% in the prior year; and

•potential future borrowings of incremental debt.

Potential Refinancing of Existing Debt

Over the next 12 months we have no debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. We do not anticipate the need to access the capital markets to refinance our existing debt until at least 2015, which reflects the impact of refinancings that extended our debt maturities. As of December 31, 2012, we have no interest rate swaps hedging any refinancings. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview." 

Floating Rate Debt

We manage our exposure to market interest rates on our existing debt by controlling the mix of fixed and floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2012, we had $3.3 billion of floating rate debt, which included $1.6 billion of debt with a LIBOR floor of 1% per annum. As a result, a hypothetical unfavorable fluctuation in market interest rates on our existing debt of 1/8 of a percent point over a 12 month period would increase our interest expense by approximately $2 million when giving effect to our LIBOR floor and would increase our interest expense by approximately $4 million exclusive of the impact of the LIBOR floor.

Potential Future Borrowings of Incremental Debt

We typically do not hedge our exposure to interest rates on potential future borrowings of incremental debt for a substantial period prior to issuance. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" regarding our short-term liquidity strategy.

35

The following table provides information about our market risk related to changes in interest rates. The future principal payments and weighted-average interest rates are presented as of December 31, 2012 after giving effect to the January 2013 Debt Retirements. These debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates, and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates of certain notes (see footnote (c)). See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 ____________________

(a)The fair value of our debt is based on indicative quotes (that is, non-binding quotes) from brokers that require judgment to interpret market information, including implied credit spreads for similar borrowings on recent trades or bid/ask offers. These fair values are not necessarily indicative of the amount, which could be realized in a current market exchange.

(b)The average interest rate represents the weighted-average stated coupon rate (see footnote (c)).

(c)The impact of principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates are not considered. The January 2010 Tower Revenue Notes consist of three series of notes with principal amounts of $300 million, $350.0 million and $1.3 billion, having anticipated repayment dates in 2015, 2017 and 2020, respectively. The August 2010 Tower Revenue Notes consist of three series of notes with principal amounts of $250.0 million, $300.0 million and $1.0 billion, having anticipated repayment dates in 2015, 2017, and 2020, respectively. If the tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by the applicable anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by approximately 5% per annum and monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The tower revenue notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates ranging from 2035 to 2040 and include the impact of an assumed 5% increase in interest rate that would occur following the anticipated repayment dates but exclude the impact of monthly principal payments that would commence using Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The full year 2012 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes was approximately $482 million. If the WCP securitized notes with a current face value of $296.0 million are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates in 2015, the applicable interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their rapid amortization date of 2017, monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes. The WCP securitized notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates in 2040. The full year 2012 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes was approximately $17 million.

36

Foreign Currency Risk

The vast majority of our foreign currency risk is related to the Australian dollar which is the functional currency of CCAL. CCAL represented 6% of our consolidated revenues and 4% of our consolidated operating income for 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the Australian dollar exchange rate had strengthened compared to the U.S. dollar by approximately 1% from the average rate for 2011. See "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments."

Foreign exchange markets have recently been volatile, and we expect foreign exchange markets to continue to be volatile over the near term. We believe the risk related to our financial instruments (exclusive of inter-company financing deemed a long-term investment) denominated in Australian dollars is not significant to our financial condition. A hypothetical increase or decrease of 25% in Australian dollar exchange rate would increase or decrease the fair value of our financial instruments by approximately $12 million.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data