Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General Overview

Overview

We own, operate or lease shared wireless infrastructure. See "Item 1. Business" for a further discussion of our business, including our long-term strategy, certain key terms of our lease agreements and growth trends in the wireless communications industry. Site rental revenues represented 87% of our 2012 consolidated net revenues. CCUSA, our largest operating segment, accounted for 94% of our 2012 site rental revenues.

The following are certain highlights of our business fundamentals as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012:

•Potential growth resulting from wireless network expansion and new entrants

◦We expect wireless carriers will continue their focus on improving network quality and expanding capacity by adding additional antennas and other equipment on our wireless infrastructure.

◦We expect existing and potential new wireless carrier demand for our wireless infrastructure will result from (1) next generation technologies, (2) continued development of mobile internet applications, (3) adoption of other emerging and embedded wireless devices, (4) increasing smartphone penetration, and (5) wireless carrier focus on expanding coverage.

◦Substantially all of our wireless infrastructure can accommodate additional tenancy, either as currently constructed or with appropriate modifications to the structure.

◦U.S. wireless carriers continue to invest in their networks.

◦Our site rental revenues grew $271 million, or 15%, from the full year 2011 to 2012. Our 2012 site rental revenues growth was impacted by:

◦Our acquisitions in 2012 (see note 3 of our consolidated financial statements); and

◦The fact that we have effectively pre-sold via a firm contractual commitment a significant portion of the modification of the existing installations relating to certain 4G upgrades. We have done so by increasing the future contracted revenue above that of a typical escalation over a period of time, typically a three or four year period. As a result for any given period, the increase in cash rental receipts may not translate into a corresponding increase in reported revenues from the application of straight-line revenue recognition (see note 2 of our consolidated financial statements). 

◦Our 2013 site rental revenues growth will also be impacted by both of these same items that impacted our 2012 site rental revenues growth, including an approximately 13% expected contribution from the 2012 acquisitions. Additionally, we do not expect that any of our customers' network enhancement deployments and any related non- renewal of customer contracts anticipated in 2014 and 2015, including Sprint's Network Vision and any corresponding non-renewal of iDEN leases, will have a material adverse effect on our operations and cash flows for 2013 and subsequent periods.

•Site rental revenues under long-term customer contracts with contractual escalations

◦Initial terms of five to 15 years with multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each.

◦Weighted-average remaining term of approximately eight years, exclusive of renewals at the customer's option, representing approximately $20 billion of expected future cash inflows.

•Revenues predominately from large wireless carriers

◦Verizon Wireless, AT&T, Sprint and T-Mobile accounted for 72% of consolidated revenues.

•Majority of land interests under our towers under long-term control[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Relatively fixed wireless infrastructure operating costs 

◦Our wireless infrastructure operating costs tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation and are not typically influenced by new tenant additions.

•Minimal sustaining capital expenditure requirements[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Debt portfolio with long-dated maturities extended over multiple years with the majority of such debt having a fixed rate (see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a further discussion of our debt) 

◦70% of our debt has fixed rate coupons, after giving effect to the January 2013 Debt Retirements.

19

◦Our debt service coverage and leverage ratios were comfortably within their respective financial maintenance and cash trap covenants. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a further discussion of our debt covenants. 

•Significant cash flows from operations

◦Net cash provided by operating activities was $772.6 million.

◦We believe our core business of providing access to our wireless infrastructure can be characterized as a stable cash flow stream, which we expect to grow as a result of future demand for our wireless infrastructure.

•Capital allocated to drive long-term stockholder value (per share) (see also "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" )

◦Historical discretionary investments include (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under our towers, improving and structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, and purchasing, repaying or redeeming our debt.

◦Discretionary investments during 2012 included the following acquisitions: 

◦In September 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement with T-Mobile to acquire the exclusive rights to lease, operate or otherwise acquire approximately 7,100 T-Mobile towers for approximately $2.5 billion. On November 30, 2012, we closed on the T-Mobile acquisition. We have the exclusive right to lease and operate the T-Mobile towers (that are otherwise not owned by the Company). In addition, we have the option to purchase such towers at the end of their respective lease terms. See note 1 of our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of the terms of the T-Mobile lease including the purchase option. We utilized cash on hand, inclusive of the proceeds from the October 2012 issuance of the 5.25% senior notes, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund the T-Mobile acquisition. 

◦In April 2012, we closed on the acquisition of NextG for approximately $1.0 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments.

◦In January 2012, we acquired certain subsidiaries of WCP for a purchase price of $214.7 million, including $39.2 million of restricted cash and excluding the assumption of $336.3 million (after fair value adjustments) of debt. Upon closing in January 2012, WCP held various contracts with wireless site owners, including approximately 2,300 ground lease related assets.

◦Other investing and financing activities during 2012 included the following:

◦Discretionary capital expenditures of $404.3 million including wireless infrastructure improvements in order to support additional site rentals, construction of wireless infrastructure and land purchases.

◦The purchase of 0.7 million shares of common stock for $36.0 million.

◦In January 2012, we refinanced our previously outstanding credit facility with a new credit facility that consisted of a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and $2.1 billion of term loan facilities. In December 2012, we increased our revolving credit facility by $500 million to $1.5 billion. Borrowings under such credit facility were used to fund the cash consideration of the WCP acquisition, NextG acquisition and to partially fund the purchase and redemption of the 9% senior notes.

◦In October 2012, we issued $1.65 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due 2023 to partially fund the T-Mobile acquisition. 

◦In December 2012, we extended the maturity of our debt while reducing our interest rates by issuing $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.381% secured notes due 2017 and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.849% secured notes due 2023, for an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion with a blended rate of 3.36% ("2012 secured notes"), using the proceeds therefrom, together with borrowings under our credit facility, to repurchase and redeem all of the outstanding 7.75% secured notes and 9.00% senior notes.

◦Through our 2012 financing activities, we lowered our average cost of debt from 6.2% as of December 31, 2011 to 4.5% as of December 31, 2012. As a result of our financing and investing activities during 2012, including the impact of the T-Mobile acquisition, the CCIC consolidated leverage ratio increased from approximately 5.3 times as of December 31, 2011 to approximately 6.5 times as of December 31, 2012, after giving effect to the January 2013 Debt Retirements. This current CCIC consolidated leverage ratio is below our restrictive covenant of 7.0 times. As a result of the financial performance and our refinancings that lowered our cost of debt, our interest coverage ratios and debt service coverage ratios improved during 2012. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources."

20

Results of Operations

The following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion of our results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts (see "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 2 to our consolidated financial statements).

Comparison of Consolidated Results

The following is a comparison of our 2012, 2011 and 2010 consolidated results of operations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Percentage is not meaningful

(a)Exclusive of depreciation, amortization and accretion shown separately.

(b)Inclusive of the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. See "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments—CCAL."

2012 and 2011. Our consolidated results of operations for 2012 and 2011, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 94% and 94% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 94% and 94% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 77% and 98% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Our operating segment results for 2012 and 2011, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments"). Our consolidated results of operations for 2012 were impacted by the WCP acquisition, NextG acquisition and T-Mobile acquisition which resulted in (1) increases to consolidated net revenues of $143.3 million and (2) a net loss of $12.6 million included in net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders, which includes the impact of the debt assumed in the WCP acquisition and approximately $16.2 million of acquisition and integration expenses, but excludes the interest expense associated with the financing to fund each of these acquisitions.

21

2011 and 2010. Our consolidated results of operations for 2011 and 2010, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 94% and 95% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 94% and 95% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 98% and 100% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Virtually all of the increase in site rental revenues resulted from wireless infrastructure we owned as of January 1, 2010. Our operating segment results for 2011 and 2010, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments").

Comparison of Operating Segments

Our reportable operating segments for 2012 are (1) CCUSA, consisting of our U.S. operations, and (2) CCAL, our Australian operations. Our financial results are reported to management and the board of directors in this manner.

See note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for segment results and a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA (defined below).

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate our operating performance and operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted ("Adjusted EBITDA"). Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").

We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus restructuring charges (credits), asset write-down charges, acquisition and integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion, amortization of prepaid lease purchase price adjustments, interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, gains (losses) on retirement of long-term obligations, net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps, impairment of available-for-sale securities, interest income, other income (expense), benefit (provision) for income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations and stock-based compensation expense (see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements). The reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to our net income (loss) is set forth in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP, and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is discussed further under "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Non-GAAP Financial Measures."

CCUSA—2012 and 2011. See note 3 in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the impact of our 2012 acquisitions.

Net revenues for 2012 increased by $379.8 million, or 20%, from 2011. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in site rental revenues of $256.1 million, or 15%, for the same periods. This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight-line accounting, in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of customer contracts, acquisitions, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. See also "Item 1. Business—The Company—CCUSA."  

Site rental gross margins for 2012 increased by $199.3 million, or 15%, from 2011. The increase in the site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 15% increase in site rental revenues. Site rental gross margins for 2012 increased primarily as a result of (1) the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate wireless infrastructure and (2) acquisitions. The $199.3 million incremental margin represents 78% of the related increase in site rental revenues, inclusive of impact of acquisitions. 

Network services and other revenues for 2012 increased by $123.8 million, or 77%, from 2011, and the related gross margin increased by $46.1 million, or 70%, from 2011. The increase in our gross margin from our network services and other revenues is a reflection of the carrier network enhancements such as LTE upgrades and the general volatility in the volume and mix of network services work. Our network services offering is of a variable nature as these revenues are not under long-term contracts. 

General and administrative expenses for 2012 increased by $33.2 million, or 22%, from 2011 but were 8% of net revenues for both 2012 and 2011. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges, which increased $5.7 million during 2012 primarily related to a non-recurring stock grant. See also note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in general and administrative expenses in nominal dollars was commensurate with the growth in our business as a result of our acquisitions. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of the co-location of additional tenants on our wireless infrastructure.

22

Adjusted EBITDA for 2012 increased by $235.5 million, or 19%, from 2011. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental, as well as the contributions from network services activities and acquisitions.

Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2012 increased by $68.7 million, or 13%, from 2011. This increase predominately resulted from the fixed asset and intangible asset additions related to the NextG acquisition and the T-Mobile acquisition.

During 2012, we completed several debt transactions, including refinancing and increasing availability under our credit facility and issuing the 5.25% senior notes and the 2012 secured notes. These financing transactions provided funding for the WCP acquisition, NextG acquisition and T-Mobile acquisition as well as refinancing certain of our debt and extending our debt maturities. As a result of repurchasing and redeeming certain of our debt, we incurred a net loss of $132.0 million for 2012, inclusive of (1) non cash losses of $48.1 million resulting from the write-off of deferred financing costs and discounts and (2) cash losses of $83.9 million including with respect to make whole payments. During 2011, we had no significant debt transactions. The increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs of $93.8 million, or 18%, in 2012 resulted predominately from the increase in debt outstanding. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings, including the impact to our results of operations for the first quarter of 2013 related to the January 2013 Debt Retirements, see notes 6, 7 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements, "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

Our acquisition and integration expenses for 2012 predominately related to the NextG acquisition and T-Mobile acquisition. See note 3 of our consolidated financial statements.

The benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2012 was a benefit of $60.1 million inclusive of a valuation allowance reversal of $115.2 million resulting from (1) the NextG acquisition and (2) our determination to reverse a portion of the valuation allowance based upon our consideration of our recent historical trends and anticipated future taxable income. For 2012 and 2011, the effective tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate predominately due to our federal deferred tax valuation allowance and the net impact of state taxes. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 9 in our consolidated financial statements. 

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2012 was income of $144.6 million compared to income of $168.1 million for 2011. The decrease in net income was predominately due to the increase in interest expense and the net losses on the retirement of debt partially offset by (1) the growth in our existing business and (2) a change in our benefit (provision) for income taxes primarily as a result of the reversal of the U.S. federal and state deferred tax valuation allowances. 

CCAL—2012 and 2011. The increases and decreases between 2012 and 2011 were inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars expressed in U.S dollars for 2012 was approximately 1.04, an increase of approximately 1% from approximately 1.03 for the same period in the prior year. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

Total net revenues for 2012 increased by $20.1 million, or 16%, from 2011. Site rental revenues for 2012 increased by $14.6 million, or 13%, from 2011. The increase in the exchange rate did not have a significant impact on the growth from 2012 from 2011. Site rental revenues were also impacted by various other factors, inclusive of straight-line accounting, including, in no particular order: tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure, renewals of customer contracts, acquisitions, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. Net revenues were also impacted by a $5.5 million increase in network services and other revenues.

Site rental gross margins for 2012 increased by $13.5 million, or 18%, from 2011 and Adjusted EBITDA for 2012 increased by $10.3 million, or 17%, from 2011. The increase in the site rental gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA were primarily due to previously mentioned growth in our site rental revenues. 

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2012 was a net income of $44.0 million, inclusive of income tax benefit of $39.9 million resulting from the reversals of the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets, compared to net income of $3.0 million for 2011, inclusive of income tax provision of $2.2 million. The increase in net income was primarily related to the change in income tax benefit (provision) and the previously mentioned increase in net revenues.

CCUSA—2011 and 2010. Net revenues for 2011 increased by $130.3 million, or 7%, from 2010. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in site rental revenues of $136.9 million, or 9%, for the same periods. This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight-line accounting, in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of customer contracts, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. See also "Item 1. Business—The Company—CCUSA."

23

Site rental gross margins for 2011 increased by $127.8 million, or 11%, from 2010. The increase in site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 9% increase in site rental revenues. Site rental gross margins for 2011 increased primarily as a result of the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate wireless infrastructure. The $127.8 million incremental margin represents 93% of the related increase in site rental revenues.

Network services and other revenues for 2011 decreased by $6.6 million, or 4%, from 2010, and the related gross margin increased by $5.0 million, or 8%, from 2010. The increase in our gross margin from our network services and other revenues is a reflection of the general volatility in the volume and mix of such work. Our network services offering is of a variable nature as these revenues are not under long-term contracts. 

General and administrative expenses for 2011 increased by $3.4 million, or 2%, from 2010. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges, as discussed further in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. General and administrative expenses increased primarily as a result of DAS operations, driven by our acquisition of NewPath in 2010. General and administrative expenses were 8% of net revenues for both 2011 and 2010. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of new tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure.

Adjusted EBITDA for 2011 increased by $125.5 million, or 11%, from 2010. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental gross margin, including the high incremental site rental margin on the new tenant additions.

Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2011 increased by $9.2 million, or 2%, from 2010. The increase is consistent with the insignificant movement in our fixed assets and intangible assets, which did not materially change between 2011 and 2010.

During 2010, we repaid or purchased $3.4 billion of face value of debt using cash from our issuances of debt in order to extend the maturities of our debt portfolio. As a result of purchasing and early retiring certain of our debt, we incurred a net loss of $138.4 million for 2010, inclusive of make whole payments. During 2010, we realized losses on interest rate swaps of $286.4 million, which predominately resulted from an increase in the liability for those swaps not subject to hedge accounting due to changes in the LIBOR yield curve. All of our forward-starting swaps were settled during 2010, so no further cash outflows associated with these swaps will occur. The increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs of $18.4 million, or 4%, in 2011 resulted predominately from a $17.5 million increase in the amortization of interest rate swaps primarily related to the loss realized in 2010 on the swaps hedging the refinancing of the 2006 tower revenue notes. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings and the interest rate swaps see notes 6 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements.

Benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2011 was a provision of $6.1 million compared to a benefit of $28.8 million for 2010. For 2011 and 2010, the effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate predominately due to our federal deferred valuation allowances. In addition, 2010 included $19.8 million of federal tax benefits recorded predominately as a result of discrete events, including acquisitions.

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2011 was income of $168.1 million. Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2010 was a loss of $310.2 million, inclusive of (1) net losses from interest rate swaps of $286.4 million and (2) net losses from repayments and purchases and early retirement of debt of $138.4 million. The change from net loss to net income was predominately due to (1) the previously mentioned charges and (2) growth in our core business. 

CCAL—2011 and 2010. The increases and decreases between 2011 and 2010 are inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars to U.S dollars for 2011 was approximately 1.03, an increase of 12% from approximately 0.92 for the same period in the prior year. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

Total net revenues for 2011 increased by $23.8 million, or 23%, from 2010. Site rental revenues for 2011 increased by $15.9 million, or 17%, from 2010. The increase in the exchange rate positively impacted net revenues and site rental revenues by approximately $13.9 million and $11.9 million, respectively, and accounted for an increase of 14% and 13%, respectively, for 2011 from 2010. Site rental revenues were also impacted by various other factors inclusive of straight-line accounting, including, in no particular order: new tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure, renewals of customer contracts, escalations and cancellations of customer contracts. Net revenues were also impacted by a $7.9 million increase in network services and other revenues.

Site rental gross margins increased by $10.7 million, or 17%, for 2011 from $63.3 million, and Adjusted EBITDA for 2011 increased by $9.4 million, or 18%, from $53.0 million. The increase in the site rental gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA were primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations. 

24

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2011 was a net income of $3.0 million, compared to a net loss of $0.7 million for 2010. The change from net loss to net income was primarily related to previously mentioned increase in net revenues.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

General. We believe our core business can be characterized as a stable cash flow stream, generated by revenues under long-term contracts (see "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Overview"). Since we became a public company in 1998, our cumulative net cash provided by operating activities (net of cash interest payments) has exceeded our capital expenditures and provided us with cash available for discretionary investments. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to generate net cash provided by operating activities that exceeds our capital expenditures and will be available for discretionary investments. In addition to investing net cash provided by operating activities, in certain circumstances, we may also use debt financings and issuances of equity or equity related securities to fund discretionary investments. 

We seek to allocate the net cash provided by our operating activities in a manner that will enhance per share results. Our historical discretionary investments include (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under towers, improving and structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, and purchasing, repaying or redeeming our debt. 

We seek to maintain a capital structure that we believe drives long-term stockholder value and optimizes our weighted-average cost of capital. We target a leverage ratio of approximately four to six times Adjusted EBITDA and interest coverage of approximately three times Adjusted EBITDA, subject to various factors such as the availability and cost of capital and the potential long-term return on our discretionary investments. We may choose to increase or decrease our leverage and coverage from these targets for various periods of time. See our discussion of the impact of the T-Mobile acquisition on our leverage in "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Overview."

We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. Currently we endeavor to utilize our net cash provided by operating activities to engage in discretionary investments. We seek to maintain flexibility in our discretionary investments with both net cash provided by operating activities and cash available from financing capacity. Periodically, our board of directors assesses the advisability of declaring and paying cash dividends at some point in the future, based on the then-current and anticipated future conditions, including our earnings, net cash provided by operating activities, capital requirements, financial condition, our relative market capitalization, taxable income, taxpayer status, and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. 

We pay minimal cash income taxes as a result of our net operating loss carryforwards. We have $2.7 billion of federal net operating losses to offset future taxable income. We expect to utilize our federal net operating losses between now and 2017 based on current taxable income projections. We evaluate our options with respect to appropriately managing our tax position on an on-going basis. These options may include a conversion to a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), which would require the payment of dividends on our common stock. If we were to convert to a REIT, we expect that certain subsidiaries would not qualify as a REIT and would continue to be subject to corporate income taxes. 

Liquidity Position. The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position as of December 31, 2012, after giving effect to the January 2013 Debt Retirements. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and notes 6 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Exclusive of restricted cash.

(b)Availability at any point in time is subject to reaffirmation of the representations and warranties in, and there being no default under, our credit agreement. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities" and "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt Covenants."

25

Over the next 12 months, after giving effect to the January 2013 Debt Retirements: 

•We expect that our cash on hand, undrawn revolving credit facility availability and net cash provided by operating activities (net of cash interest payments) should be sufficient to cover our expected (1) debt service obligations of $88.2 million (principal payments) and (2) capital expenditures of roughly $400 million to $450 million (sustaining and discretionary). As CCIC and CCOC are holding companies, this cash flow from operations is generated by our operating subsidiaries.

•We have no debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. We do not anticipate the need to access the capital markets to refinance our existing debt until at least 2015. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a tabular presentation of our debt maturities as of December 31, 2012.

Summary Cash Flows Information 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2012 from 2011 and 2010 was due primarily to growth in our core site rental business, inclusive of our acquisitions. Changes in working capital, and particularly changes in accounts receivable, deferred site rental receivables, deferred rental revenues, prepaid ground leases, restricted cash and accrued interest, can have a significant impact on net cash provided by operating activities, largely due to the timing of prepayments and receipts. We expect net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2013 will be sufficient to cover the next 12 months of our expected debt service obligations and capital expenditures. We expect to grow our net cash provided by operating activities in the future (exclusive of movements in working capital) if we realize expected growth in our site rental business.

Investing Activities

Capital Expenditures. We categorize our capital expenditures as sustaining or discretionary. Sustaining capital expenditures include capitalized costs related to (1) maintenance activities on our wireless infrastructure, which are generally related to replacements and upgrades that extend the life of the asset, (2) vehicles, (3) information technology equipment, and (4) office equipment. Discretionary capital expenditures, which we also commonly refer to as "revenue-generating capital expenditures," include (1) purchases of land interests under towers, (2) wireless infrastructure improvements and structural enhancements in order to support additional site rentals, and (3) the construction of wireless infrastructure. 

A summary of our capital expenditures for the last three years is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

26

Other than sustaining capital expenditures, which we expect to be approximately $28 million to $32 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, our capital expenditures are discretionary and are made with respect to activities which we believe exhibit sufficient potential to improve our long-term results on a per share basis. We expect to use roughly $400 million to $450 million of our cash flows on capital expenditures (sustaining and discretionary) for full year 2013, with approximately one-fourth of our total capital expenditures targeted for our existing wireless infrastructure assets related to customer installations and related capacity improvement. Our decisions regarding capital expenditures are influenced by the availability and cost of capital and expected returns on alternative investments. The following is a discussion of certain aspects of our capital expenditures.

•The decrease in purchases of land interests from 2011 to 2012 was driven by a single transaction during 2011 for $87.7 million for perpetual easements and other interests. 

•Capital expenditures for construction of wireless infrastructure increased from 2011 to 2012 primarily as a result of additional DAS network builds.

•Capital expenditures for wireless infrastructure improvements typically vary based on (1) the type of work performed on the wireless infrastructure, with the installation of a new antenna typically requiring greater capital expenditures than a modification to an existing installation, (2) the existing capacity of the wireless structure prior to installation and (3) changes in structural engineering regulations and our internal structural standards. 

Acquisitions. Acquisitions consist of the acquisitions of businesses such as towers, DAS and third party land sites. See notes 3 and 5 for a discussion of the WCP acquisition, the NextG acquisition and the T-Mobile acquisition in 2012 and our acquisition of NewPath in 2010.

Financing Activities

We seek to allocate cash generated by our operations in a manner that will enhance per share results, which may include various financing activities, such as (in no particular order) purchasing our common stock and purchasing, repaying or redeeming our debt. Since the beginning of 2010, we have purchased an aggregate of 12.2 million shares of common stock for $499.1 million, which purchases we believe are consistent with our objective to drive per share results. During 2010, we extended the maturities of our debt by issuing an aggregate $3.5 billion face value of debt and purchased and repaid $3.4 billion face value of debt. In 2012, our financing activities predominately related to the issuance and borrowing of an aggregate $6.5 billion of face value of debt which provided funding for the WCP acquisition, NextG acquisition and T-Mobile acquisition, as well as the refinancing of our credit facility and the repurchase and redemption of the 7.75% secured notes and the 9% senior notes, which lowered our cost of debt. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview" and notes 6 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding January 2013 Debt Retirements.

Incurrence of Debt. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our issuances of debt during 2010 and 2012, which extended the maturities of our debt portfolio, provided funding for our acquisitions and lowered our cost of debt. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview—Liquidity Position." Highlights of the security for our debt is as follows:

•Approximately 78% of our debt is secured. As of December 31, 2012, 27% of our towers, as well as nearly all of the third party land interests and other assets acquired in the WCP acquisition, and the cash flows from these towers effectively secure $4.0 billion of our debt. Distributions paid from our entities that hold approximately 4,900 towers also service this secured debt. 

•We have pledged the equity interests in certain subsidiaries as well as certain of our deposit accounts in connection with certain of our debt agreements. 

Debt Purchases and Repayments. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our repurchases, redemptions and repayments of debt during 2010 and 2012, including the gains (losses) on retirement of long-term obligations. See note 6 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the January 2013 Debt Retirements, which we expect will result in a loss on the retirement of debt in our first quarter of 2013 of approximately $36 million.

Interest Rate Swaps. During 2010, we settled all of our forward-starting interest rate swaps. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of interest rate swaps.

Common Stock and Preferred Stock Activity. As of December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we had 293.2 million, 284.4 million and 290.8 million common shares outstanding, respectively. During the three years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, we purchased an aggregate 0.7 million, 7.4 million, and 4.1 million shares, respectively, of common stock. We may continue to purchase our common stock in the future as we seek to allocate capital to discretionary investments in a manner that we believe will enhance per share results. In February 2012, we converted all of the outstanding 6.25% redeemable convertible preferred stock into common stock. See "Item 1. Business—Strategy" and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.

27

Revolving Credit Facility. In January 2012, we refinanced our previously outstanding credit facility with a new credit facility that consisted of a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and $2.1 billion of term loan facilities. In December 2012, we increased our revolving credit facility by $500 million to $1.5 billion. The proceeds of our revolving credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include the financing of capital expenditures, acquisitions and purchases of our common stock. Typically, we use our revolving credit facility to fund discretionary investments and not for operating activities, such as working capital, which are typically funded by net cash provided by operating activities. As of February 5, 2013, there is $1.3 billion outstanding under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, and there is $247.0 million of undrawn availability. We have not made any repayments on our existing revolving credit facility. The weighted-average interest rate as of December 31, 2012 was 2.7% on the existing revolving credit facility. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview." 

Restricted Cash. Pursuant to the indentures governing certain of our operating companies' debt securities, all rental cash receipts of the issuers of these debt instruments and their subsidiaries are restricted and held by an indenture trustee. The restricted cash in excess of required reserve balances is subsequently released to us in accordance with the terms of the indentures. As of December 31, 2012, restricted cash included $316.6 million of cash held by the trustee in connection with the redemption of the 7.75% secured notes. The redemption was completed in January 2013. See also notes 2, 6 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements.

Contractual Cash Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2012 after giving effect to the January 2013 Debt Retirements. These contractual cash obligations relate primarily to our outstanding borrowings and lease obligations for land interests under our towers. The debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates on the tower revenue notes (see footnote (c)) and the WCP securitized notes (see footnote (d)). 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________ 

(a)The following items are in addition to the obligations disclosed in the above table:

•We have a legal obligation to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements upon lease and easement terminations to remove wireless infrastructure or remediate the land upon which our wireless infrastructure resides. The cash obligations disclosed in the above table, as of December 31, 2012, are exclusive of estimated undiscounted future cash outlays for asset retirement obligations of approximately $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2012, the net present value of these asset retirement obligations was approximately $95 million.

•In the normal course of business, we post letters of credit and surety bonds pursuant to certain performance related obligations. We are contractually obligated under letters of credit to various landlords, insurers and other parties in connection with certain contingent retirement obligations under various wireless infrastructure land interest leases and certain other contractual obligations. The letters of credit were issued through one of CCUSA's lenders in amounts aggregating $12.6 million and expire on various dates through December 2013.

•We are contractually obligated to pay or reimburse others for property taxes related to our wireless infrastructure. See note 14 to our consolidated financial statements.

(b)The impact of principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates of our tower revenue notes are not considered. The January 2010 Tower Revenue Notes consist of three series of notes with principal amounts of $300.0 million, $350.0 million and $1.3 billion, having anticipated repayment dates in 2015, 2017 and 2020, respectively. The August 2010 Tower Revenue Notes consist of three series of notes with principal amounts of $250.0 million, $300.0 million and $1.0 billion, having anticipated repayment dates in 2015, 2017, and 2020, respectively. If the tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by the applicable anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by approximately 5% per annum and monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The tower revenue notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates ranging from 2035 to 2040 and include the impact of an assumed 5% increase in interest rate that would occur following the anticipated repayment dates but exclude the impact of monthly principal payments that would commence using Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes. The full year 2012 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes was approximately $482 million. The anticipated repayment date is 2015 for each class of the WCP securitized notes. We currently expect to refinance these notes on or prior to the respective anticipated repayment dates. 

(c)If the WCP securitized notes with a current face value of $296.0 million are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their rapid amortization date of 2017, monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes. The WCP securitized notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates in 2040. The full year 2012 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes was approximately $17 million. We currently expect to refinance these notes on or prior to the respective anticipated repayment dates.

(d)Interest payments on the floating rate debt are based on estimated rates currently in effect.

28

(e)Amounts relate primarily to lease obligations for the land interests on which our wireless infrastructure resides, and are based on the assumption that payments will be made through the end of the period for which we hold renewal rights. See table below summarizing remaining terms to expiration.

The following table summarizes our rights to the land interests under our towers, including renewal terms at our option, as of December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the leases for land interests under our towers had an average remaining life of approximately 30 years, weighted based on site rental gross margin. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors." 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)For the year ended December 31, 2012.

(b)Without consideration of the term of the customer contract agreement.

(c)Inclusive of renewal terms at our option.

Debt Covenants

Our debt obligations contain certain financial covenants with which CCIC or our subsidiaries must maintain compliance in order to avoid the imposition of certain restrictions. Various of our debt obligations also place other restrictions on CCIC or our subsidiaries, which may include the ability to incur debt and liens, purchase our securities, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets, undertake transactions with affiliates, make other investments and pay dividends. We are permitted to issue additional indebtedness at CCIC and at our operating subsidiaries subject to compliance with the covenants governing our debt (including the below mentioned restrictive covenants) and meeting certain other requirements, which may include obtaining rating agency confirmations. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt covenants.

Factors that are likely to determine our subsidiaries' ability to comply with their current and future debt covenants include their (1) financial performance, (2) levels of indebtedness, and (3) debt service requirements. Given the current level of indebtedness and debt services requirements of our subsidiaries, the primary risk of a debt covenant violation would be from a deterioration of a subsidiary's financial performance. Should a covenant violation occur in the future as a result of a shortfall in financial performance (or for any other reason), we might be required to make principal payments earlier than currently scheduled and may not have access to additional borrowings under these debt instruments as long as the covenant violation continues. If we fail to comply with the debt restrictions, we will be in default under those instruments, which could cause the maturity of a substantial portion of our long-term indebtedness to be accelerated. If our operating subsidiaries were to default on the debt, the trustee could seek to pursue the collateral securing the debt, in which case we could lose the wireless infrastructure and the future revenues associated with such wireless infrastructure. We currently have no financial covenant violations; and based upon our current expectations, we believe our operating results will be sufficient to comply with our debt covenants over the near and long-term. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

29

The following are the ratios applicable to the financial maintenance, restrictive and cash trap reserve covenants under our debt agreements, after giving effect to the January 2013 Debt Retirements. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)The Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio for CCOC is calculated as the ratio of (1) Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently completed quarter multiplied by four to (2) Consolidated Pro forma Debt Service (as defined in the credit agreement). 

(c)The 2009 securitized notes and 2010 tower revenue notes also have amortization coverage thresholds of 1.15 and 1.45, respectively, which could result in applying current and future cash in the reserve account to prepay the debt with applicable prepayment consideration. See note (d) below for a discussion of the calculation of the Debt Service Coverage Ratio and Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio.

(d)The Debt Service Coverage Ratio is calculated as site rental revenue (calculated in accordance with GAAP), less: (1) cost of operations (calculated in accordance with GAAP), (2) straight-line rental revenues, (3) straight-line ground lease expenses, (4) management fees, and (5) sustaining capital expenditures, using the results for the previous 12 months then ended to the amount of interest to be paid over the succeeding 12 months per the terms of the respective agreement. 

(e)The Debt Service Coverage Ratio on the WCP securitized notes is calculated as Net Cash Flow (as defined in the indenture) less: (1) the Series 2010-1 Class A Targeted Amortization Amounts (as defined in the indenture) for the immediately succeeding 12 payment dates and (2) the Unpaid Series 2010-1 Class A Monthly Amortization Amount (as defined in the indenture) to the payments of interest that the issuers of such debt will be required to pay on the succeeding 12 payment dates on the principal balance of the WCP securitized notes. The WCP securitized notes also have an amortization threshold of 1.15, which could result in applying all Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the indenture) to prepay principal amounts with applicable prepayment consideration. In addition, if the Non-Performing Wireless Site Contract Ratio (as defined in the indenture) on the WCP securitized notes is greater than 10%, it could result in applying all Excess Cash Flow to prepay principal amounts with applicable prepayment consideration. 

(f)The 7.125% senior notes and 5.25% senior notes contain restrictive covenants with which CCIC and our restricted subsidiaries must comply, subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications, including restrictions on our ability to incur incremental debt, issue preferred stock, guarantee debt, pay dividends, repurchase our capital stock, use assets as security in other transactions, sell assets or merge with or into other companies, and make certain investments. Certain of these covenants are not applicable if there is no event of default and if the ratio of our Debt (as defined in the senior notes indenture) to our Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flows (as defined in the senior notes indenture) is less than 7.0 to 1. 

(g)Failure to comply with the ratios applicable to the financial maintenance would, absent a waiver, result in default under our credit agreement.

(h)Failure to comply with the cash trap reserve covenants would require the cash flows generated by the issuers and their subsidiaries to be deposited in a reserve account for debt service and not released to us.

(i)The credit agreement contains a restrictive covenant relating to CCOC and its restricted subsidiaries' ability to make restricted payments (as defined in the credit agreement), including dividends. As of December 31, 2012, after giving effect to the January 2013 Debt Retirements, CCOC and its restricted subsidiaries could (1) borrow an additional $681.0 million of debt and remain in compliance with this restrictive covenant, assuming no change in Consolidated EBITDA and (2) decrease Consolidated EBITDA by $123.8 million and remain in compliance with this restrictive covenant, assuming no change in their indebtedness. 

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.

30

Accounting and Reporting Matters

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The following is a discussion of the accounting policies and estimates that we believe (1) are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and (2) require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The critical accounting policies and estimates for 2012 are not intended to be a comprehensive list of our accounting policies and estimates. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP, with no need for management's judgment. In other cases, management is required to exercise judgment in the application of accounting principles with respect to particular transactions.

Revenue Recognition. Over 87% of our total revenue for 2012 consists of site rental revenues, which are recognized on a monthly basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the relevant contract (generally ranging from five to 15 years), regardless of whether the payments from the customer are received in equal monthly amounts. If the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases), prepaid rent or rent free periods, the revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the contract. When calculating our straight-line rental revenues, we consider all fixed elements of tenant contractual escalation provisions, even if such escalation provisions contain a variable element (such as an escalator tied to an inflation-based index) in addition to a minimum. Any up-front billings to customers for their negotiated share of the cost of wireless infrastructure modifications required to accommodate the installation of customer equipment or the cost of the construction of small cells are initially deferred and recognized over the term of the applicable site rental contract. To the extent we acquire below-market tenant leases for contractual interests with tenants on the acquired wireless infrastructure (for example with respect to small cells) we record deferred credits and amortize such deferred credits to site rental revenues over their estimated lease term. Since we recognize revenue on a straight-line basis, a portion of the site rental revenue in a given period represents cash collected or contractually collectible in other periods. We record a deferred site rental receivable for the difference between the straight-lined amount and the rent billed. We record an allowance for uncollectible deferred site rental revenues for which increases or reversals of this allowance impact our site rental revenues. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

We provide network services relating to our wireless infrastructure, which represent less than 13% of our total revenues for 2012. Network services and other revenue relate to installation services, as well as the following additional site development services relating to existing and new antenna installations on our wireless infrastructure: site acquisition, architectural and engineering, zoning and permitting, fiber installations, other construction and other services related to network development. Network services revenues are recognized after completion of the applicable service. We account for network services separately from the customer's site rental. 

See "Item 1. Business—CCUSA" for a further discussion of our business. 

Accounting for Acquisitions — General. As described in "Item 1. Business," much of our wireless infrastructure has been acquired in various transactions from the four largest wireless carriers (or their predecessors) through transactions consummated since 1999. We evaluate each of our acquisitions to determine if it should be accounted for as a business combination or as an acquisition of assets. For our business combinations, we allocate the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Any purchase price in excess of the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. See "Accounting for Acquisitions - Valuation" below. 

The determination of the final purchase price allocation could extend over several quarters resulting in the use of preliminary estimates that are subject to adjustment until finalized. Such changes could have a significant impact on our financial statements and could result in retrospective changes in results reported for the acquired business in prior periods in accordance with GAAP. As of December 31, 2012, the purchase price allocation for the T-Mobile acquisition is preliminary and subject to change, including as result of the finalization of the valuation of certain tangible and intangible assets and certain liabilities. 

Accounting for Acquisitions — Valuation. As of December 31, 2012, our largest asset was property and equipment, which primarily consists of wireless infrastructure, followed by intangible assets and goodwill (approximately $2.9 billion and $3.1 billion in net book value, respectively). Approximately $2.7 billion net book value at December 31, 2012 of our identifiable intangibles relate to the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the nature and composition of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets.

31

 The fair value of the vast majority of our assets and liabilities is determined by using either:

(1)estimates of replacement costs (for tangible fixed assets such as towers) or

(2)discounted cash flow valuation methods (for estimating identifiable intangibles such as site rental contracts and customer relationships and above-market and below-market leases).

The purchase price allocation requires subjective estimates that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements, including the amount of depreciation, amortization and accretion expense. The most important estimates for measurement of tangible fixed assets are (1) the cost to replace the asset with a new asset and (2) the economic useful life after giving effect to age, quality and condition. The most important estimates for measurement of intangible assets are (1) discount rates and (2) timing and amount of cash flows including estimates regarding customer renewals and cancellations. The most important estimates for measurement of above and below-market leases is the determination of (1) favorablility or unfavorability to the current market terms, and (2) applicable lease term, including whether renewals or extensions should be measured. With respect to business combinations that include towers that we lease and operate, such as the T-Mobile towers and the Sprint towers, we evaluate such agreements to determine treatment as capital or operating leases and identification of any bargain purchase options. 

We record the fair value of obligations to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements, pursuant to our ground leases and easements, to remove wireless infrastructure or remediate the land upon which our wireless infrastructure resides. In determining the fair value of these asset retirement obligations we must make several subjective and highly judgmental estimates such as those related to: (1) timing of cash flows, (2) future costs, (3) discount rates and (4) the probability of enforcement to remove the wireless infrastructure or remediate the land. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Useful Lives. We are required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets for purposes of determining depreciation, amortization and accretion expense that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Depreciation expense for our property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of our various classes of tangible assets. The substantial portion of our property and equipment represents the cost of our wireless infrastructure which is depreciated with an estimated useful life equal to the shorter of (1) 20 years or (2) the term of the lease (including optional renewals) for the land interests under the wireless infrastructure.

The useful life of our intangible assets are estimated based on the period over which the intangible asset is expected to benefit us and gives consideration to the expected useful life of other assets to which the useful life may relate. Amortization expense for intangible assets is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of each of the intangible assets. The useful life of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets is limited by the maximum depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure (20 years), as a result of the interdependency of the wireless infrastructure and site rental contracts and customer relationships. In contrast, the site rental contracts and customer relationships are estimated to provide economic benefits for several decades because of the low rate of customer cancellations and high rate of renewals experienced to date. Thus, while site rental contracts and customer relationships are valued based upon the fair value of the site rental contracts and customer relationships which includes assumptions regarding both (1) customers' exercise of optional renewals contained in the acquired contracts and (2) renewals of the acquired contracts past the contractual term including exercisable options, the site rental contracts are amortized over a period not to exceed 20 years as a result of the useful life being limited by the depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Evaluation — Intangibles. We review the carrying values of property and equipment, intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We utilize the following dual grouping policy for purposes of determining the unit of account for testing impairment of the site rental contracts and customer relationships:

(1)we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups and

(2)we separately pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant customer or by customer grouping for individually insignificant customers, as appropriate.

We first pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing, because we view wireless infrastructure as portfolios and wireless infrastructure in a given portfolio and its related customer contracts are not largely independent of the other wireless infrastructure in the portfolio. We re-evaluate the appropriateness of the pooled groups at least annually. This use of grouping is based in part on (1) our limitations regarding disposal of wireless infrastructure, (2) the interdependencies of wireless infrastructure portfolios and (3) the manner in which wireless infrastructure is traded in the marketplace. The vast majority of our site rental 

32

contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment are pooled into the U.S. owned wireless infrastructure group. Secondly, and separately, we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant customer or by customer grouping for individually insignificant customers, as appropriate, for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing because we associate the value ascribed to site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets to the underlying contracts and related customer relationships acquired.

Our determination that an adverse event or change in circumstance has occurred that indicates that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable will generally involve (1) a deterioration in an asset's financial performance compared to historical results, (2) a shortfall in an asset's financial performance compared to forecasted results, or (3) changes affecting the utility and estimated future demands for the asset. When considering the utility of our assets, we consider events that would meaningfully impact (1) our wireless infrastructure or (2) our customer relationships. For example, consideration would be given to events that impact (1) the structural integrity and longevity of our wireless infrastructure or (2) our ability to derive benefit from our existing customer relationships, including events such as bankruptcy or insolvency or loss of a significant customer. During 2012, there were no events or circumstances that caused us to review the carrying value of our intangible assets and property and equipment due in part to our assets performing consistently with or better than our expectations.

If the sum of the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) from an asset, or portfolio group, significant customer or customer group (for individually insignificant customers), as applicable, is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss may be recognized. If the carrying value were to exceed the undiscounted cash flows, measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the fair value of the asset, which is based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows. The most important estimates for such calculations of undiscounted cash flows are (1) the expected additions of new tenants and equipment on our wireless infrastructure and (2) estimates regarding customer cancellations and renewals of contracts. We could record impairments in the future if changes in long-term market conditions, expected future operating results or the utility of the assets results in changes for our impairment test calculations which negatively impact the fair value of our property and equipment and intangible assets, or if we changed our unit of account in the future.

When grouping assets into pools for purposes of impairment evaluation, we also consider individual towers, nodes and third party land interests within a grouping for which we currently have no tenants. Approximately 3% of our total towers currently have no tenants. We continue to pay operating expenses on these towers in anticipation of obtaining tenants on these towers in the future, primarily because of the individual tower site demographics. We estimate, based on current visibility, potential tenants on over half of these towers. To the extent we do not believe there are long-term prospects of obtaining tenants on an individual tower, node or third party land interest and all other possible avenues for recovering the carrying value has been exhausted, including sale of the asset, we appropriately reduce the carrying value of such assets to fair value.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Evaluation — Goodwill. Nearly all of our goodwill is recorded at CCUSA. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether adverse events or changes in circumstances have occurred. The annual test begins with goodwill and all intangible assets being allocated to applicable reporting units. We then perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is concluded that it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Our reporting units are the operating segments (CCUSA and CCAL) since segment management operates their respective wireless infrastructure portfolios as a single network. 

We performed our most recent annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2012, which resulted in no impairments. This assessment included consideration of our market capitalization which exceeded over seven times the aggregate carrying amount of the reporting units as of December 31, 2012. 

Deferred Income Taxes. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet related to events that impact our financial statements and tax returns in different periods. In order to compute these deferred tax balances, we first analyze the differences between the book basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities (referred to as "temporary differences"). These temporary differences are then multiplied by current tax rates to arrive at the balances for the deferred income tax assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided on deferred tax assets that do not meet the "more likely than not" realization threshold. We recognize a tax position if it is more likely than not it will be sustained upon examination. The tax position is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. 

 If our expectations about the future tax consequences of past events should prove to be inaccurate, the balances of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities could require significant adjustments in future periods. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards is dependent, in part, upon our having sufficient future earnings to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards before they expire. If market conditions change materially and we determine that we will be unable to generate 

33

sufficient taxable income in the future to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, we would be required to record an additional valuation allowance, which would reduce our earnings. Such adjustments could cause a material effect on our results of operations for the period of the adjustment. The change in our valuation allowance has no effect on our cash flows.

 See "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments" for a discussion of our benefit (provision) for income taxes during 2012, 2011 and 2010. During 2012, we reversed the valuation allowance at CCUSA and CCAL related to our determination that we are more likely than not to realize these deferred tax assets as a result of our recent historical trends of taxable income and anticipated future taxable income for the respective jurisdictions. The evaluation of the amount of our valuation allowance and the timing of any such adjustments requires significant judgment. See note 9 of our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our valuation allowance.

Impact of Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted and Those Adopted in 2012 

None.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate the operating performance of our operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted, or Adjusted EBITDA. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA is set forth in "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments." Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating income or loss, net income or loss, net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities or other income statement or cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP.

We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because:

•it is the primary measure used by our management to evaluate the economic productivity of our operations, including the efficiency of our employees and the profitability associated with their performance, the realization of contract revenue under our long-term contracts, our ability to obtain and maintain our customers and our ability to operate our wireless infrastructure effectively;

•it is the primary measure of profit and loss used by management for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;

•it is similar to the measure of current financial performance generally used in our debt covenant calculations;

•although specific definitions may vary, it is widely used in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure to measure operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, amortization and accretion, which can vary depending upon accounting methods and the book value of assets; and

•we believe it helps investors meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our operations from (1) period to period and (2) to our competitors by removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results.

Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA:

•with respect to compliance with our debt covenants, which require us to maintain certain financial ratios including, or similar to, Adjusted EBITDA;

•as the primary measure of profit and loss for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;

•as a performance goal in employee annual incentive compensation;

•as a measurement of operating performance because it assists us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as it removes the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results;

•in presentations to our board of directors to enable it to have the same measurement of operating performance used by management;

•for planning purposes, including preparation of our annual operating budget;

•as a valuation measure in strategic analyses in connection with the purchase and sale of assets; and

•in determining self-imposed limits on our debt levels, including the evaluation of our leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio.

34

There are material limitations to using a measure such as Adjusted EBITDA, including the difficulty associated with comparing results among more than one company, including our competitors, and the inability to analyze certain significant items, including depreciation and interest expense, that directly affect our net income or loss. Management compensates for these limitations by considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with their analysis of net income (loss).

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk