Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may impact Mattel’s results of operations and cash flows. Inventory transactions denominated in the Euro, British pound sterling, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, and Indonesian rupiah were the primary transactions that caused currency transaction exposure for Mattel during 2011, 2010, and 2009. Mattel seeks to mitigate its exposure to market risk by monitoring its currency transaction exposure for the year and partially hedging such exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory, and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts generally have maturity dates of up to 18 months. For those intercompany receivables and payables that are not hedged, the transaction gains or losses are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the exchange rate changes as part of operating income or other non-operating income/expense, net based on the nature of the underlying transaction. Transaction gains or losses on hedged intercompany inventory transactions are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the inventory is sold to customers. In addition, Mattel manages its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through the selection of currencies used for international borrowings. Mattel does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.  

Mattel’s financial position is also impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations on translation of its net investment in subsidiaries with non-US dollar functional currencies. Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries with non-US dollar functional currencies are translated into US dollars at fiscal year-end exchange rates. Income, expense, and cash flow items are translated at weighted average exchange rates prevailing during the fiscal year. The resulting currency translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity. Mattel’s primary currency translation exposures during 2011 were related to its net investment in entities having functional currencies denominated in the Euro, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, and British pound sterling.  

There are numerous factors impacting the amount by which Mattel’s financial results are affected by foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses resulting from changes in currency exchange rates, including, but not limited to, the level of foreign currency forward exchange contracts in place at a given time and the volume of foreign currency denominated transactions in a given period. However, assuming that such factors were held constant, Mattel estimates that a 1 percent change in the US dollar Trade-Weighted Index would impact Mattel’s net sales by approximately 0.5% and its full year earnings per share by approximately $0.01 to $0.02.  

Mattel’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts that were used to hedge firm foreign currency commitments as of December 31, 2011 are shown in the following table. All contracts are against the US dollar and are maintained by reporting units with a US dollar functional currency, with the exception of the Indonesian rupiah contracts, which are maintained by entities with a rupiah functional currency.  

49  

Table of Contents 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * The weighted average contract rate for these contracts is quoted in US dollar per local currency.   

For the purchase of foreign currencies, fair value reflects the amount, based on dealer quotes, that Mattel would pay at maturity for contracts involving the same notional amounts, currencies and maturity dates, if they had been entered into as of December 31, 2011. For the sale of foreign currencies, fair value reflects the amount, based on dealer quotes, that Mattel would receive at maturity for contracts involving the same notional amounts, currencies and maturity dates, if they had been entered into as of December 31, 2011. The differences between the market forward amounts and the contract amounts are expected to be fully offset by currency transaction gains and losses on the underlying hedged transactions.  

In addition to the contracts involving the US dollar detailed in the above table, Mattel also had contracts to sell British pound sterling for the purchase of Euro. As of December 31, 2011, these contracts had a contract amount of $37.6 million and a fair value of $(1.3) million.  

Had Mattel not entered into hedges to limit the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on its results of operations and cash flows, its income before income taxes would have increased by approximately $5 million in 2011, increased by approximately $4 million in 2010, and decreased by approximately $13 million in 2009.  

Venezuelan Operations  

Since January 1, 2010, Mattel has accounted for Venezuela as a highly inflationary economy as the three-year cumulative inflation rate for Venezuela exceeded 100%. Accordingly, Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary uses the US dollar as its functional currency, and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuertes generate income or expense for changes in value associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations against the US dollar. Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary uses the Sistema de Transacciones con Titulos en Moneda Extranjera (“SITME”) rate, which is controlled by the Central Bank of Venezuela, to remeasure  

50  

Table of Contents 

 monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuertes. The SITME rate was quoted at 5.30 Venezuelan bolivar fuertes per US dollar at December 31, 2011.  

Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary represented less than 0.1% of Mattel’s consolidated net sales in 2011 and had approximately $34 million of net monetary assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuertes as of December 31, 2011. For every $10 million of net monetary assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuertes, a 10% increase/(decrease) in the foreign currency exchange rate would decrease/(increase) Mattel’s pre-tax income by approximately $1 million.  

51  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.