PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

PepsiCo, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1919 and was reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986. When used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “PepsiCo” and the “Company” mean PepsiCo, Inc. and its divisions and subsidiaries.  

We are a leading global food, snack and beverage company. Our brands – which include Quaker Oats, Tropicana, Gatorade, Frito-Lay and Pepsi – are household names that stand for quality throughout the world. As a global company, we also have strong regional brands such as Walkers, Gamesa and Sabritas. Either independently or through contract manufacturers, we make, market and sell a variety of convenient, enjoyable and wholesome foods and beverages. Our portfolio includes oat, rice and grain-based snacks, as well as carbonated and non-carbonated beverages, in over 200 countries. Our largest operations are in North America (United States and Canada), Mexico and the United Kingdom. 

We are united by our unique commitment to Performance with Purpose, which means delivering sustainable growth by investing in a healthier future for people and our planet. Our goal is to continue to build a balanced portfolio of enjoyable and wholesome foods and beverages, find innovative ways to reduce the use of energy, water and packaging and provide a great workplace for our employees. Additionally, we will respect, support and invest in the local communities where we operate by hiring local people, creating products designed for local tastes and partnering with local farmers, governments and community groups. We make this commitment because we are a responsible company, and a healthier future for all people and our planet means a more successful future for PepsiCo.  

And in recognition of our continuing sustainability efforts, we were again included on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in September 2009. These indices are compiled annually. 

Our Divisions  

We are organized into three business units, as follows: 

   1. PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF), which includes Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) and all of our Latin American food and snack businesses (LAF), including our Sabritas and Gamesa businesses in Mexico;  

   2. PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB), which includes PepsiCo Beverages North America and all of our Latin American beverage businesses; and  

2  

Table of Contents 

   3.  PepsiCo International (PI), which includes all PepsiCo businesses in Europe and all PepsiCo businesses in Asia, Middle East and Africa (AMEA). 

Our three business units are comprised of six reportable segments (referred to as divisions), as follows:  

   •    FLNA,  

   •    QFNA,  

   •    LAF,  

   •    PAB,  

   •    Europe, and  

   •    AMEA.  

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas.  

Frito-Lay North America  

Either independently or through contract manufacturers, FLNA makes, markets, sells and distributes branded snack foods. These foods include Lay’s potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, Tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, Fritos corn chips, Ruffles potato chips, Quaker Chewy granola bars and SunChips multigrain snacks. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. In addition, FLNA’s joint venture with Strauss Group makes, markets, sells and distributes Sabra refrigerated dips. FLNA’s net revenue was $13.2 billion in 2009, $12.5 billion in 2008 and $11.6 billion in 2007 and approximated 31% of our total net revenue in 2009 and 29% of our total net revenue in 2008 and 2007. 

Quaker Foods North America  

Either independently or through contract manufacturers, QFNA makes markets and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA’s products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Cap’n Crunch cereal, Quaker grits, Life cereal, Rice-A-Roni, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. QFNA’s net revenue was $1.9 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007 and approximated 4% of our total net revenue in both 2009 and 2008 and 5% of our total net revenue in 2007. 

Latin America Foods  

Either independently or through contract manufacturers, LAF makes, markets and sells a number of snack food brands including Gamesa, Doritos, Cheetos, Ruffles, Lay’s and  

3  

Table of Contents 

 Sabritas, as well as many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. LAF’s net revenue was $5.7 billion, $5.9 billion and $4.9 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively and approximated 13%, 14% and 12% of our total net revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

PepsiCo Americas Beverages  

Either independently or through contract manufacturers, PAB makes, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, 7UP (outside the U.S.), Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist, Mirinda, Mug, Propel, Manzanita Sol, Tropicana juice drinks, SoBe Lifewater, Dole, Amp Energy, Paso de los Toros, Naked juice and Izze. PAB also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea, coffee and water products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks. In addition, PAB licenses the Aquafina water brand to its bottlers and markets this brand. PAB sells concentrate and finished goods for some of these brands to authorized bottlers, and some of these branded finished goods are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. The bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. PAB’s net revenue was $10.1 billion, $10.9 billion and $11.1 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and approximated 23%, 25% and 28% of our total net revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

See also “Acquisition of Common Stock of PBG and PAS” below.  

Europe  

Either independently or through contract manufacturers, Europe makes, markets and sells a number of leading snack foods including Lay’s, Walkers, Doritos, Cheetos and Ruffles, as well as many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Europe also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, 7UP and Tropicana. These brands are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, Europe operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. In addition, Europe licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. Europe also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). Europe’s net revenue was $6.7 billion, $6.9 billion and $5.9 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively and approximated 16% of our total net revenue in 2009 and 2008 and 15% of our total net revenue in 2007. 

See also “Acquisition of Common Stock of PBG and PAS” below. 

4  

Table of Contents 

Asia, Middle East & Africa 

AMEA makes, markets and sells a number of leading snack food brands including Lay’s, Kurkure, Chipsy, Doritos, Smith’s, Cheetos, Red Rock Deli and Ruffles, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Further, either independently or through contract manufacturers, AMEA makes, markets and sells many Quaker-brand cereals and snacks. AMEA also makes, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mirinda, 7UP and Mountain Dew. These brands are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, AMEA operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. In addition, AMEA licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. AMEA also, either independently or through contract manufacturers, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). AMEA’s net revenue was $5.6 billion, $5.1 billion and $4.2 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively and approximated 13%, 12% and 11% of our total net revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Acquisition of Common Stock of PBG and PAS  

On August 3, 2009, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. (PBG) and Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Company, Inc. (Metro), our wholly owned subsidiary (the PBG Merger Agreement) and a separate Agreement and Plan of Merger with PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS) and Metro (the PAS Merger Agreement).  

The PBG Merger Agreement provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the PBG Merger Agreement, PBG will be merged with and into Metro (the PBG Merger), with Metro continuing as the surviving corporation and our wholly owned subsidiary. At the effective time of the PBG Merger, each share of PBG common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time not held by us or any of our subsidiaries will be converted into the right to receive either 0.6432 of a share of PepsiCo common stock or, at the election of the holder, $36.50 in cash, without interest, and in each case subject to proration procedures which provide that we will pay cash for a number of shares equal to 50% of the PBG common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the PBG Merger not held by us or any of our subsidiaries and issue shares of PepsiCo common stock for the remaining 50% of such shares. Each share of PBG common stock held by PBG as treasury stock, held by us or held by Metro, and each share of PBG Class B common stock held by us or Metro, in each case immediately prior to the effective time of the PBG Merger, will be canceled, and no payment will be made with respect thereto. Each share of PBG common stock and PBG Class B common stock owned by any subsidiary of ours other than Metro immediately prior to the effective time of the PBG Merger will automatically be converted into the right to receive 0.6432 of a share of PepsiCo common stock.  

The PAS Merger Agreement provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the PAS Merger Agreement, PAS will be merged with and into Metro (the PAS Merger, and together with the PBG Merger, the Mergers), with Metro continuing as  

5  

Table of Contents 

 the surviving corporation and our wholly owned subsidiary. At the effective time of the PAS Merger, each share of PAS common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time not held by us or any of our subsidiaries will be converted into the right to receive either 0.5022 of a share of PepsiCo common stock or, at the election of the holder, $28.50 in cash, without interest, and in each case subject to proration procedures which provide that we will pay cash for a number of shares equal to 50% of the PAS common stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the PAS Merger not held by us or any of our subsidiaries and issue shares of PepsiCo common stock for the remaining 50% of such shares. Each share of PAS common stock held by PAS as treasury stock, held by us or held by Metro, in each case, immediately prior to the effective time of the PAS Merger, will be canceled, and no payment will be made with respect thereto. Each share of PAS common stock owned by any subsidiary of ours other than Metro immediately prior to the effective time of the PAS Merger will automatically be converted into the right to receive 0.5022 of a share of PepsiCo common stock.  

On February 17, 2010, the stockholders of PBG and PAS approved the PBG and PAS Mergers, respectively. Consummation of each of the Mergers is subject to various conditions, including the absence of legal prohibitions and the receipt of regulatory approvals. On February 17, 2010, we announced that we had refiled under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (HSR Act) with respect to the Mergers and signed a consent decree (Consent Decree) proposed by the Staff of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) providing for the maintenance of the confidentiality of certain information we will obtain from Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (DPSG) in connection with the manufacture and distribution of certain DPSG products after the Mergers are completed. The Consent Decree is subject to review and approval by the Commissioners of the FTC. We hope to consummate the Mergers by the end of February, 2010.  

We currently plan that at the closing of the Mergers we will form a new operating unit. This new operating unit will comprise all current PBG and PAS operations in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and will account for about three-quarters of the volume of PepsiCo’s North American bottling system, with independent franchisees accounting for most of the rest. This new operating unit will be included within the PAB business unit. Current PBG and PAS operations in Europe, including Russia, will be managed by the Europe division when the Mergers are completed. See “Our Operations” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  

Our Distribution Network  

Our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (DSD), customer warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. These distribution systems are described under the heading “Our Distribution Network” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  

6  

Table of Contents 

Ingredients and Other Supplies  

The principal ingredients we use in our food and beverage businesses are apple and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils and wheat. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins including polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles and cardboard. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. These ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased mainly in the open market. We employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation. When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs.  

Our Brands  

We own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including Alegro, Amp Energy, Aquafina, Aunt Jemima, Cap’n Crunch, Cheetos, Chester’s Fries, Chipsy, Cracker Jack, Diet Pepsi, Doritos, Duyvis, Frito-Lay, Fritos, Fruktovy Sad, Frustyle, Gamesa, Gatorade, G2, Grandma’s, Izze, Kurkure, Lay’s, Life, Manzanita Sol, Matutano, Mirinda, Miss Vickie’s, Mother’s, Mountain Dew, Mug, Munchies Snack mix, Naked, Near East, Paso de los Toros, Pasta Roni, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi One, Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Quakes, Red Rock Deli, Rice-A-Roni, Rold Gold, Ruffles, Sabritas, Sakata, 7UP and Diet 7UP (outside the United States), Santitas Tortilla Chips, Sierra Mist, Simba, Smartfood, Smith’s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SoBe Lifewater, Sonric’s, Stacy’s, SunChips, Tonus, Tostitos, Trop 50, Tropicana, Tropicana Pure Premium, Tropicana Twister, TrueNorth, V Water, Walkers and Ya. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products, including Lipton, Starbucks, Dole and Ocean Spray. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. In addition, we license the use of our trademarks on promotional items for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness.  

We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others.  

Seasonality  

Our beverage and food divisions are subject to seasonal variations. Our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food sales are higher in the cooler  

7  

Table of Contents 

 months. Weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our business.  

Our Customers  

Our customers include authorized bottlers and independent distributors, including foodservice distributors and retailers. We normally grant our bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality.  

Retail consolidation and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. In 2009, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart), including Sam’s Club (Sam’s), represented approximately 13% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 33% of our 2009 North American net revenue, with Wal-Mart (including Sam’s) representing approximately 19%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. In addition, sales to PBG represented approximately 6% of our total net revenue in 2009. See “Acquisition of Common Stock of PBG and PAS” above and “Our Customers” and “Our Related Party Bottlers” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers.  

Our Competition  

Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. In U.S. measured channels, our chief beverage competitor, The Coca-Cola Company, has a larger share of CSD (carbonated soft drinks) consumption, while we have a larger share of liquid refreshment beverages consumption. In addition, The Coca-Cola Company has a significant CSD share advantage in many markets outside the United States. Further, our snack brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack industry worldwide. Our snack brands face local, regional and private label competitors, as well as national and global snack competitors, and compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, the introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs and product packaging. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allow us to compete effectively.  

8  

Table of Contents 

 (1)  The categories and category share information in the charts above are as of December 2009 and are defined by the following source of the information: Information Resources, Inc. The above charts exclude data from certain customers such as Wal-Mart that do not report data to this service.  

Research and Development  

We engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth in these activities. These activities principally involve the development of new products and improvement in the quality of existing products, including expanding our “good-for-you” products, improvement and modernization of production processes, and the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $414 million in 2009, $388 million in 2008 and $364 million in 2007 and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance  

The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets where we operate. It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses.  

In the United States, we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Motor Carrier  

9  

Table of Contents 

 Safety Act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, customs and foreign trade laws and regulations, laws regulating the sales of products in schools, and various other federal statutes and regulations. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including California Proposition 65 which requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. Many food and beverage producers who sell products in California, including PepsiCo, may be required to provide warning labels on their products. See also “Risk Factors – Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.” In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as local in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business.  

Legislation has been enacted in certain U.S. states and in certain of the countries in which our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers unless a deposit or other fee is charged. It is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. In addition, proposals have been introduced in certain jurisdictions in which we operate which would impose special taxes on products we sell.  

The cost of compliance with U.S. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our operations.  

We are subject to national and local environmental laws in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business, including laws relating to water consumption and treatment. We are committed to meeting all applicable environmental compliance requirements. Environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.  

Employees  

As of December 26, 2009, we employed approximately 203,000 people worldwide, including approximately 65,000 people within the United States. Our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good.  

Available Information  

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are also available free of charge on our internet website at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC.  

Item 1A. Risk Factors