Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements  

We discuss expectations regarding our future performance, such as our business outlook, in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases, and other written and oral statements. These “forward-looking statements” are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our future performance.  

Risks Relating to the Company and our Business  

Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively.  

We are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. Any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. Our success depends on our ability to respond to consumer trends, including concerns of consumers regarding health and wellness, obesity, product attributes and ingredients. In addition, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against  

11  

Table of Contents 

 companies in our industry, a downturn in economic conditions or taxes specifically targeting the consumption of our products. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase our products. See also the discussions under “The global economic downturn has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates and may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.” and “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”  

Our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products, and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs and product packaging. Although we devote significant resources to meet this goal, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability either to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. Our failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs.  

Any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. If we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials obtained from our suppliers, our reputation could be jeopardized. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns or the incidence of product contamination or tampering, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. If any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. Failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities or adverse publicity regarding our responses to health concerns, our environmental impacts, including agricultural materials, packaging, energy use and waste management, or other sustainability issues, could jeopardize our reputation. In addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. Our reputation could be damaged if we do not act responsibly with respect to water use. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners could adversely affect our financial performance.  

We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, as well as other retailers and our bottling partners, to effectively compete. There is a greater concentration of our customer base around the world generally due to the continued consolidation of retail trade. As retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, as larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. Failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance.  

Retail consolidation and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. Loss of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Furthermore, if we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottlers through a combination of advertising and marketing support, they may take actions that, while maximizing their own short-term profit, may be detrimental to us or our brands. Such actions could have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, any deterioration of our relationships with our bottlers could adversely affect our business or financial performance. See “Our Customers” and “Our Related Party Bottlers” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers.  

If we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business.  

Our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. Furthermore, if any of our key employees or key employees of either PBG or PAS depart because of issues relating to the PBG Merger and the PAS Merger such as the uncertainty, difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the post-merger entity, our ongoing business could be harmed. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.  

13  

Table of Contents 

Our performance could be adversely affected as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where we operate or if we are unable to grow our business in developing and emerging markets.  

Our operations outside of the United States contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability. Unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the countries where we operate could also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. Factors that could adversely affect our business results in these countries include: import and export restrictions; foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; regulations on the repatriation of funds which from time to time result in significant cash balances in countries such as Venezuela; and currency hyperinflation or devaluation. In addition, disruption in these markets due to political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products.  

We believe that our businesses in developing and emerging markets present an important future growth opportunity for us. If we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging and developing markets for any of the reasons described above, as a result of increased competition in these countries from multinationals or local competitors, or for any other reason, our growth rate could be adversely affected. See also “Our performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.”  

Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.  

The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. Such regulatory environment changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices; accounting standards; taxation requirements, including taxes specifically targeting the consumption of our products; competition laws; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities.  

Governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. For example, studies are underway by various regulatory authorities and others to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. Acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato chips, cereal, bread and coffee. It is believed that acrylamide may cause cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in significant amounts. If consumer concerns about acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether or not valid, demand for  

14  

Table of Contents 

 our products could decline and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

We are also subject to Proposition 65 in California, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in California that contains a substance listed by that State as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. If we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere.  

In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. See also “Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.”  

If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively our business could suffer.  

We depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach.  

We have embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative that includes the delivery of an SAP enterprise resource planning application, as well as the migration to common business processes across our operations. There can be no certainty that these programs will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue.  

In addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets.  

The global economic downturn has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates and may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.  

The global economic downturn has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions in many of the countries in which we operate. Our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates or tax rates; volatile commodity markets; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace potentially impairing our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons to private label products or to less profitable channels; or a further decrease in the fair value of pension assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension plans. The global economic downturn has also resulted in increased foreign exchange rate volatility. We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars. As a result, our profitability may be adversely impacted by an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers and distributors and any negative impact on our critical customers, suppliers or distributors may also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.  

Our performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.  

The food and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with major international food and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers. In many countries where we do business, including the United States, The Coca-Cola Company, is our primary beverage competitor. We compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to gain or maintain share of sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. This may have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profit margins.  

Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.  

We and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business, including apple and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame,  

16  

Table of Contents 

 corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins including polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene resin used for plastic beverage bottles, film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles and cardboard. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. Some of these raw materials and supplies are available from a limited number of suppliers. We are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. The raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. We purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. If commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income. In addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. Certain of these derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. See also the discussion under “The global economic downturn has resulted in unfavorable economic conditions and increased volatility in foreign exchange rates and may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition”, “Market Risks” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   

Our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners, including bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to adverse weather conditions, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities, pandemic, strikes and other labor disputes or other reasons beyond our or their control, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.  

Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.  

There is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits.  

17  

Table of Contents 

 We may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. In addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. The increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. In the event that such regulation is enacted and is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that currently we are undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we and our bottling partners may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. See also “Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”  

Risks Relating to the Mergers  

Failure to complete the PBG Merger and the PAS Merger may adversely affect our results of operations and prevent us from realizing the full extent of the benefits and cost savings expected from either or both of the PBG Merger and the PAS Merger.  

The PBG Merger and the PAS Merger are each subject to the satisfaction or, to the extent permissible, waiver of certain conditions, including, but not limited to, receipt of the necessary consents and approvals. Although we expect to complete both of the Mergers, it is possible that either the PBG Merger or the PAS Merger may not be completed. Our relationship with PBG or PAS may suffer following a failure to complete the PBG Merger or the PAS Merger, as applicable, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to complete either Merger will also prevent us from realizing the full extent of the benefits and cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of both Mergers. See also “The Mergers are subject to the receipt of certain required clearances or approvals from governmental entities that could prevent or delay their completion or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on us.”  

After completion of the Mergers, we may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings and other benefits expected therefrom, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock or other securities.  

The success of the Mergers will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine our business with the businesses of PBG and PAS and realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from such combination. While we believe that these cost savings estimates are achievable, it is possible that we will be unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Our cost savings estimates also depend on our ability to combine our business with the businesses of PBG and PAS in a manner that permits those cost savings to be realized. If these estimates turn out to be incorrect or we are not able to combine our business with the businesses of PBG and PAS successfully, the anticipated cost savings and other benefits, including expected synergies, resulting from the Mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our common stock or other securities may be adversely affected.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating our operations with the operations of PBG and PAS in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the Mergers include, among other things:  

   •    integrating the manufacturing, distribution, sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems among the companies;  

   •    motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees;  

   •    conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among the companies;  

   •    consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures;  

   •    consolidating sales and marketing operations;  

   •    retaining existing customers and attracting new customers;  

   •    identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets;  

   •    coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and  

   •    managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the Mergers.  

Delays encountered in the process of integrating our business with the businesses of PBG and PAS could have an adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition after completion of the Mergers. Although significant benefits, such as increased cost savings, are expected to result from the Mergers, there can be no assurance that we will realize any of these anticipated benefits after completion of either or both of the Mergers.  

Additionally, significant costs are expected to be incurred in connection with consummating the Mergers and integrating the operations of the companies, with a significant portion of such costs being incurred through the first year after completion of the Mergers. We continue to assess the magnitude of these costs and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our business with the businesses of PBG and PAS. Although we believe that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, no assurances can be given that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all.  

Furthermore, the Mergers, and the related integration efforts, could result in the departure of key employees or distract management and employees from delivering against base strategies and objectives, which could have a negative impact on our business, and, prior to the completion of the Mergers, the businesses of PBG or PAS.  

The Mergers are subject to the receipt of certain required clearances or approvals from governmental entities that could prevent or delay their completion or impose conditions that could have a material adverse effect on us.   

19  

Table of Contents 

Completion of each of the Mergers is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental clearances or approvals, including, but not limited to, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act with respect to such Merger. There can be no assurance that these clearances and approvals will be obtained, and, additionally, government authorities from which these clearances and approvals are required may impose conditions on the completion of the PBG Merger or the PAS Merger or require changes to their respective terms. While under the terms of the Merger Agreements, neither we nor PBG or PAS is required, in connection with the PBG Merger or the PAS Merger, as applicable, to enter into any agreement or other undertaking with any such governmental authority with respect to any of our respective or our respective material subsidiaries’ material businesses, assets or properties, we, PBG and PAS have each agreed to use reasonable best efforts to obtain governmental clearances or approvals necessary to complete the applicable Merger. If, in order to obtain any clearances or approvals required to complete either the PBG Merger or the PAS Merger, we become subject to any material conditions after completion of the PBG Merger or PAS Merger, as applicable, our business and results of operations after completion of the PBG Merger or PAS Merger, as applicable, may be adversely affected. In addition, there can be no assurances that the Commissioners of the FTC will approve the Consent Decree we signed that was proposed by the Staff of the FTC. If the Commissioners do not approve the Consent Decree, the Mergers could be prevented or delayed.  

Following completion of the Mergers, a greater portion of our workforce will belong to unions. Failure to successfully renew collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer.   

Over 25% of current PBG and PAS employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements expire on various dates. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency after completion of the Mergers.  

Any downgrade of our credit rating could increase our future borrowing costs.  

Following the public announcement of the PBG Merger Agreement and the PAS Merger Agreement, Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) indicated that it was reviewing our ratings for possible downgrade. Moody’s has noted that the additional debt involved in completing the Mergers and our consolidated level of indebtedness following completion of the Mergers could result in a rating lower than the current rating level. Also following the public announcement of the PBG Merger Agreement and the PAS Merger Agreement, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) indicated that its outlook on PepsiCo was negative and it could lower our ratings. S&P has indicated that when additional information becomes available S&P will review whether, following completion of the PBG Merger and the PAS Merger, any of our senior unsecured debt will, in S&P’s view, be structurally subordinated, which could result in a lower rating for PepsiCo’s debt securities. A downgrade by either Moody’s or S&P could increase our future borrowing costs.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2009 fiscal year and that remain unresolved.  

Item 2. Properties