Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

 This section includes a discussion of our results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2017. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations in Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read considering those disclosures and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto.  

 Overview  

 Our Company’s goals are targeted at serving our customers, our employees, the environment, the communities in which we work and our stockholders. Increasingly, customers want more of their waste materials recovered, while waste streams are becoming more complex, and our aim is to address the current needs, while anticipating the expanding and evolving needs, of our customers.  

 We believe we are uniquely equipped to meet the challenges of the changing waste industry and our customers’ waste management needs, both today and as we work together to envision and create a more sustainable future. As the waste industry leader, we have the expertise necessary to collect and handle our customers’ waste efficiently and responsibly by delivering environmental performance — maximizing resource value, while minimizing environmental impact — so that both our economy and our environment can thrive.  

 Our fundamental strategy has not changed; we remain dedicated to providing long-term value to our stockholders by successfully executing our core strategy of focused differentiation and continuous improvement, with the current state of our strategy taking into account economic conditions, the regulatory environment, asset and resource availability and innovation through technology. We believe that focused differentiation in our industry, driven by capitalizing on our extensive, well-placed network of assets, will deliver profitable growth and competitive advantages. Simultaneously, we believe the combination of cost control, process improvement and operational efficiency will deliver on the Company’s strategy of continuous improvement and yield an attractive total cost structure and enhanced service quality. While we will continue to monitor emerging diversion technologies that may generate additional value and related market dynamics, our current attention will be on improving existing diversion technologies, such as our recycling operations. We believe that execution of our strategy will deliver shareholder value and leadership in a dynamic industry.  

 Key items of our 2017 financial results include:  

   ·    Revenues of $14,485 million for 2017 compared with $13,609 million in 2016, an increase of $876 million, or 6.4%. This increase is primarily attributable to (i) yield and volume growth in our collection and disposal lines of business, which contributed $536 million of revenues; (ii) higher market prices for recycling commodities, which contributed $237 million of revenue growth in our recycling line of business and (iii) increased fuel surcharge and mandated fees of $73 million; 

   ·    Operating expenses of $9,021 million in 2017, or 62.3% of revenues, compared with $8,486 million, or 62.4% of revenues, in 2016. This increase of $535 million is primarily attributable to (i) increased cost of goods sold due to higher market prices for recycling commodities; (ii) higher volumes; (iii) increased maintenance and repairs costs; (iv) increased labor and related benefits costs, primarily due to merit and headcount increases and (v) increased fuel costs, primarily due to higher fuel prices and the expiration of certain natural gas fuel excise tax credits. These increases were partially offset by decreased landfill leachate management costs; 

   ·    Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1,468 million in 2017, or 10.1% of revenues, compared with $1,410 million, or 10.4% of revenues, in 2016. This increase of $58 million is primarily attributable to (i) the impact of favorable litigation settlements in 2016; (ii) merit increases; (iii) an increase in certain costs that vary with revenue and earnings growth, including incentive compensation accruals; (iv) higher severance costs and (v) charitable contributions made for hurricane relief efforts; 

   ·    Income from operations of $2,636 million, or 18.2% of revenues, in 2017 compared with $2,296 million, or 16.9% of revenues, in 2016, an increase of $340 million; 

 30  

 Table of Contents  

   ·    Net income attributable to Waste Management, Inc. of $1,949 million, or $4.41 per diluted share, for 2017 as compared with $1,182 million, or $2.65 per diluted share, for 2016; and 

   ·    In 2017, we returned $1,500 million to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases compared with $1,451 million in 2016. 

 Our business performed exceptionally well in 2017, as our strategy of improving pricing, adding profitable volume and controlling costs led to another year of significant earnings improvement. Our focus on delivering exceptional customer service while bolstering employee engagement yielded consistently positive operational performance throughout the year. Our cash flow generation has also continued to exceed expectations, allowing us to invest in assets that support continuous improvement through efficiency and innovation and return $1.5 billion to our shareholders in dividends and share repurchases in 2017. The success that we achieved in 2017 reinforces our foundation for earnings and cash flow growth in 2018, despite anticipated disruption and downward price pressure in the global market for recycling commodities. With the reduction in our cash taxes due to enactment of tax reform, we are investing in our front-line employees, technology and revenue generating assets to continue to grow our business and improve customer service. These investments, together with our long-held commitments to maintain a strong balance sheet, return cash to shareholders and pursue attractive strategic growth opportunities, position the Company to capitalize on its momentum as we work to deliver superior performance again in 2018.  

 The following explanations of certain items that affected the comparability of the years presented has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2017 results were affected by the following:  

   ·    An income tax benefit of $529 million related to enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, consisting of a net tax benefit of $595 million for the re-measurement of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities, partially offset by income tax expense of $66 million for a one-time, mandatory transition tax on the deemed repatriation of previously tax-deferred and unremitted foreign earnings. This net tax benefit had a favorable impact of $1.20 on our diluted earnings per share; 

   ·    The recognition of net pre-tax charges aggregating to $36 million, primarily related to (i) $37 million of impairment charges related to investments in waste diversion technology companies; (ii) $34 million of goodwill impairment charges for certain ancillary services businesses; (iii) an $11 million charge for the withdrawal from an underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plan; (iv) $11 million of charges to adjust our subsidiary’s estimated potential share of an environmental remediation liability and related costs for a closed site in Harris County, Texas and (v) a charge of $6 million related to the early extinguishment of $590 million of 6.1% senior notes. These charges were partially offset by gains of $31 million from the sale of certain oil and gas producing properties and a $30 million reduction in post-closing, performance-based contingent consideration obligations associated with an acquired business in our EES organization. These net charges had a negative impact of $0.08 on our diluted earnings per share; and 

   ·    Income tax benefit of $32 million for excess tax benefits related to the vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation awards, which had a favorable impact of $0.07 on our diluted earnings per share. 

 Our 2016 results were affected by the following:  

   ·    The recognition of pre-tax charges aggregating to $151 million, primarily related to (i) a $43 million impairment charge due to a loss of expected volumes for a landfill; (ii) a $42 million charge to adjust our subsidiary’s estimated potential share of an environmental remediation liability and related costs for a closed site in Harris County, Texas; (iii) $41 million of impairment charges related to investments in waste diversion technology companies; (iv) a $10 million goodwill impairment charge related to our LampTracker® reporting unit and (v) an $8 million loss on the sale of a majority-owned organics company. These charges had a negative impact of $0.26 on our diluted earnings per share. 

 Free Cash Flow  

 As is our practice, we are presenting free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity, in our disclosures because we use this measure in the evaluation and management of our business. We define free cash flow as net cash 

 31  

 Table of Contents  

provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures, plus proceeds from divestitures of businesses and other assets (net of cash divested). We believe it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. Free cash flow is not intended to replace net cash provided by operating activities, which is the most comparable GAAP measure. However, we believe free cash flow gives investors useful insight into how we view our liquidity. Nonetheless, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt service requirements.  

 Our calculation of free cash flow and reconciliation to net cash provided by operating activities is shown in the table below for the years ended December 31 (in millions), and may not be calculated the same as similarly-titled measures presented by other companies:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    Prior year information has been revised to reflect the adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016‑09, which is discussed below in Adoption of New Accounting Standards, and conform to our current year presentation. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 Our net cash flows provided by operating activities increased by $174 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared with 2016, impacted by (i) higher earnings from our Traditional Solid Waste and recycling businesses and (ii) favorable changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures. These increases were partially offset by (i) higher income tax payments of $120 million in 2017; (ii) cash proceeds of $67 million from the termination of our cross-currency swaps in 2016 and (iii) higher annual incentive plan cash payments of $41 million in 2017.  

 Our net cash flows provided by operating activities increased by $478 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared with 2015, impacted by (i) higher earnings from our Traditional Solid Waste and recycling businesses; (ii) cash proceeds of $67 million from the termination of our cross-currency swaps in 2016; (iii) Multiemployer Pension Plan settlement payments of approximately $60 million in 2015 and (iv) lower annual incentive plan cash payments of $46 million in 2016; partially offset by higher income tax payments of $23 million in 2016. Additionally, we experienced favorable changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures, particularly non-trade related items including payroll and incentive accruals.  

 Capital expenditures increased by $170 million when comparing 2017 with 2016 and $106 million when comparing 2016 with 2015. The Company continues to maintain a disciplined focus on capital management and fluctuations in our capital expenditures are a result of new business opportunities, growth in our existing business, timing of replacement of aging assets and investment in assets that support our strategy of continuous improvement through efficiency and innovation.  

 Acquisitions  

 Southern Waste Systems/Sun Recycling (“SWS”) — On January 8, 2016, Waste Management Inc. of Florida, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of WM, acquired certain operations and business assets of SWS in Southern Florida for total consideration of $525 million. The acquired business assets include residential, commercial and industrial solid waste collection, processing/recycling and transfer operations, equipment, vehicles, real estate and customer agreements.  

 Deffenbaugh Disposal, Inc. (“Deffenbaugh”) — On March 26, 2015, we acquired Deffenbaugh, one of the largest privately owned collection and disposal firms in the Midwest, for total consideration, net of cash acquired, of $400 million. Deffenbaugh’s assets include collection operations, transfer stations, recycling facilities and landfills.  

 32  

 Table of Contents  

 Adoption of New Accounting Standards  

 Equity-Based Compensation — In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU 2016‑09 associated with equity-based compensation as part of its simplification initiative to reduce the cost and complexity of compliance with GAAP, while maintaining or improving the usefulness of the information provided. This amended guidance was effective for the Company on January 1, 2017 and required the following changes to the presentation of our financial statements:  

   ·    Excess tax benefits or deficiencies for share-based payments are now recorded as a discrete item in the period shares vest or stock options are exercised as an adjustment to income tax expense or benefit rather than additional paid-in capital. This change was applied prospectively as of January 1, 2017. The Company did not have any excess tax benefits that were not previously recognized as of January 1, 2017. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the current year impact; 

   ·    As of January 1, 2017, the calculation of diluted weighted average shares outstanding was changed prospectively to no longer include excess tax benefits as assumed proceeds. This change did not have a material impact on our current year diluted earnings per share; 

   ·    Cash flows related to excess tax benefits or deficiencies are included in net cash provided by operating activities rather than as a financing activity. The Company adopted this change retrospectively, which resulted in an increase to net cash provided by operating activities and a corresponding increase to net cash used in financing activities of $28 million and $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively; 

   ·    Cash paid to taxing authorities when withholding shares from an employee’s vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation awards for tax-withholding purposes is now considered a repurchase of the Company’s equity instruments and is classified as net cash used in financing activities rather than as an operating activity. The Company adopted this change retrospectively, which resulted in an increase to net cash provided by operating activities and a corresponding increase to net cash used in financing activities of $18 million and $15 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively; and 

   ·    The Company elected to continue to estimate forfeitures rather than account for forfeitures as they occur. 

 Goodwill Impairment Testing — In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017‑04 which simplifies the goodwill impairment test by eliminating Step 2 of the quantitative assessment and should reduce the cost and complexity of evaluating goodwill for impairment. Under the amended guidance, when a quantitative assessment is required, an entity will perform a goodwill impairment test by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge will be measured as the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s estimated fair value, not to exceed the total amount of recorded goodwill. This amended guidance, effective for the Company on January 1, 2020, permits early adoption. The Company’s early adoption on January 1, 2017 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

 Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions  

 In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with precision from available data or simply cannot be calculated. In some cases, these estimates are difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that present the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, long-lived asset impairments and reserves associated with our insured and self-insured claims. Each of these items is discussed in additional detail below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements.  

 33  

 Table of Contents  

 Landfills  

 Accounting for landfills requires that significant estimates and assumptions be made regarding (i) the cost to construct and develop each landfill asset; (ii) the estimated fair value of final capping, closure and post-closure asset retirement obligations, which must consider both the expected cost and timing of these activities; (iii) the determination of each landfill’s remaining permitted and expansion airspace and (iv) the airspace associated with each final capping event.  

 Landfill Costs — We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs.  

 Final Capping Costs — We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate landfill final capping costs to specific final capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

 Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post-closure monitoring and maintenance. The estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also consider when the costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post-closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

 Remaining Permitted Airspace — Our engineers, in consultation with third-party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography.  

 Expansion Airspace — We also include currently unpermitted expansion airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe that obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria:  

   ·    Personnel are actively working on the expansion of an existing landfill, including efforts to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals; 

   ·    We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan; 

 34  

 Table of Contents  

   ·    There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could negatively affect the success of such expansion; and 

   ·    Financial analysis has been completed based on conceptual design, and the results demonstrate that the expansion meets Company criteria for investment. 

 For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if certain of these criteria are no longer met as long as we continue to believe we will ultimately obtain the permit, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill-specific review process that includes approval by our Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 15 landfill sites with expansions included as of December 31, 2017, three landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. One landfill required approval by our Chief Financial Officer because of community or political opposition that could impede the expansion process. The remaining two landfills required approval because the permit application process did not meet the one- or five-year requirements.  

 When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement costs related to final capping, closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill.  

 Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined in cubic yards, an airspace utilization factor (“AUF”) is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and is then adjusted to account for future settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site-specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate and operating practices. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi-level review by our engineering group and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements.  

 After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed as waste is received and deposited at the landfill by dividing the costs by the corresponding number of tons. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change.  

 It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post-closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if it is determined that expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of a landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment or incur significantly higher amortization expense. If at any time management makes the decision to abandon the expansion effort, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately.  

 Environmental Remediation Liabilities  

 We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include PRP investigations, settlements, and certain legal 

 35  

 Table of Contents  

and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials, external contractor costs and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on a number of estimates and assumptions.  

 Where it is probable that a liability has been incurred, we estimate costs required to remediate sites based on site-specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the costs for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third-party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:  

   ·    Management’s judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties’ sites; 

   ·    Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation; 

   ·    The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and 

   ·    The typical allocation of costs among PRPs, unless the actual allocation has been determined. 

 Long-Lived Asset Impairments  

 We assess our long-lived assets for impairment as required under the applicable accounting standards. If necessary, impairments are recorded in (income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items, net in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

 Property and Equipment, Including Landfills and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets — We monitor the carrying value of our long-lived assets for potential impairment on an ongoing basis and test the recoverability of such assets generally using significant unobservable (“Level 3”) inputs whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or changes in circumstances, including management decisions pertaining to such assets, are referred to as impairment indicators. If an impairment indicator occurs, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value and the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group; (ii) actual third-party valuations and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market for similar assets. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment and projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized, which could impact our ability to accurately assess whether an asset has been impaired.  

 The assessment of impairment indicators and the recoverability of our capitalized costs associated with landfills and related expansion projects require significant judgment due to the unique nature of the waste industry, the highly regulated permitting process and the sensitive estimates involved. During the review of a landfill expansion application, a regulator may initially deny the expansion application although the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace, or a landfill may be required to cease accepting waste, prior to receipt of the expansion permit. However, such events occur in the ordinary course of business in the waste industry and do not necessarily result in impairment of our landfill assets because, after consideration of all facts, such events may not affect our belief that we will ultimately obtain the expansion permit. As a result, our tests of recoverability, which generally make use of a probability-weighted cash flow estimation approach, may indicate that no impairment loss should be recorded.  

 36  

 Table of Contents  

 Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets, Including Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess the indefinite-lived intangible assets, including the goodwill of our reporting units for impairment using Level 3 inputs.  

 We assess whether an impairment exists using a quantitative assessment. Our quantitative assessment identifies potential impairments by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. An impairment charge is recognized if the asset’s estimated fair value is less than its carrying amount. Fair value is typically estimated using an income approach. However, when appropriate, we may also use a market approach. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows of the reporting units. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting units’ expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business. The market approach estimates fair value by measuring the aggregate market value of publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics to our business as a multiple of their reported earnings. We then apply that multiple to the reporting units’ earnings to estimate their fair values. We believe that this approach may also be appropriate in certain circumstances because it provides a fair value estimate using valuation inputs from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our reporting units.  

 Fair value is computed using several factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them in our analysis. However, we believe our methodology for estimating the fair value of our reporting units is reasonable.  

 See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items, Net and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to goodwill impairments recognized during the reported periods.  

 Insured and Self-Insured Claims  

 We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, general liability, automobile liability and workers’ compensation claims programs. The exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, are based on an actuarial valuations and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss developments significantly differ from our assumptions used. Estimated recoveries associated with our insured claims are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable.  

 In December 2017, we elected to use a wholly-owned insurance captive to insure the deductibles for our general liability, automobile liability and workers’ compensation claims programs. We continue to maintain conventional insurance policies with third-party insurers. In addition to certain business and operating benefits of having a wholly-owned insurance captive, we expect to receive certain cash flow benefits related to the timing of tax deductions related to these claims. WM will pay an annual premium to the insurance captive, typically in the first quarter of the year comprised of equal parts cash and an intercompany note, for the estimated losses based on the external actuarial analysis. These premiums will be held in a restricted escrow account to be used solely for paying insurance claims, resulting in a transfer of risk from WM to the insurance captive.  

 Results of Operations  

 Operating Revenues  

 Our operating revenues set forth below are primarily generated from fees charged for our collection, transfer, disposal, and recycling and resource recovery services, and from sales of commodities by our recycling and landfill gas-to-energy operations. Revenues from our collection operations are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility or MRF 

 37  

 Table of Contents  

and our disposal costs. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenues generally consist of tipping fees and the sale of recycling commodities to third parties. The fees we charge for our collection, disposal, transfer and recycling services generally include fuel surcharges, which are indexed to current market costs for diesel fuel. We also provide additional services that are not managed through our Solid Waste business, including both our WMSBS and EES organizations, recycling brokerage services, landfill gas-to-energy services and expanded service offerings and solutions. Our expanded service offerings and solutions include (i) portable self-storage and long distance moving services; (ii) fluorescent bulb and universal waste mail-back through our LampTracker® program; (iii) portable restroom servicing under the name Port-o-Let® and (iv) street and parking lot sweeping services. In addition, we hold interests in oil and gas producing properties. These operations are presented in our “Other” segment in the table below. The following table summarizes revenues during the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The mix of operating revenues from our major lines of business is reflected in the table below for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    The “Other” line of business includes (i) our WMSBS organization; (ii) our landfill gas-to-energy operations; (iii) certain services within our EES organization, including our construction and remediation services and our services associated with the disposal of fly ash and (iv) our expanded service offerings and solutions, such as portable self-storage and long distance moving services, and interests we hold in oil and gas producing properties. In addition, our “Other” line of business reflects the results of non-operating entities that provide financial assurance and self-insurance support, net of intercompany activity. 

   (b)    Intercompany revenues between lines of business are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements included within this report. 

 38  

 Table of Contents  

 The following table provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues (dollars in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    Calculated by dividing the increase or decrease for the current year by the prior year’s total Company revenue, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year ($13,582 million and $12,931 million for 2017 and 2016, respectively). 

   (b)    The amounts reported herein represent the changes in our revenue attributable to average yield for the total Company. We also analyze the changes in average yield in terms of related business revenues in order to differentiate the changes in yield attributable to our pricing strategies from the changes that are caused by market-driven price changes in commodities. The following table summarizes the period-to-period change in revenues from average yield on a related business basis (dollars in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (i)    Calculated by dividing the increase or decrease for the current year by the prior year’s related business revenue, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year. 

 Our revenues increased $876 million, or 6.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2017 as compared with the prior year, driven primarily by (i) higher volumes; (ii) revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal lines of business (iii) higher market prices for the recycling commodities we sell and (iv) higher revenues from our fuel surcharge program due to higher diesel fuel prices.  

 Our revenues increased $648 million, or 5.0%, for the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared with the prior year, driven by (i) acquisitions, primarily the acquired operations of SWS in January 2016; (ii) revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal lines of business; (iii) higher volumes and (iv) higher market prices for the recycling commodities we sell. Partially offsetting these revenue increases were (i) lower revenues from our fuel surcharge program due to lower diesel fuel prices; (ii) divestitures and (iii) foreign currency translation which affects revenues from our Canadian operations.  

 The following provides further details about our period-to-period change in revenues:  

 Average Yield  

 Collection and Disposal Average Yield — This measure reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer and landfill operations, exclusive of volume changes. Revenue growth from collection and 

 39  

 Table of Contents  

disposal average yield includes not only base rate changes and environmental and service fee increases, but also (i) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to the types of services provided; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business and (iii) price decreases to retain customers.  

 Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield was $241 million, or 2.0%, and $267 million, or 2.4%, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We experienced growth in yield for all of our collection and disposal lines of business in both 2017 and 2016. The period-to-period changes are as follows (dollars in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our increase in collection and disposal yield for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, compared with the prior years, includes increased revenues from our environmental fees of $67 million and $72 million, respectively.  

 Recycling Commodities — Increases in the market prices for recycling commodities resulted in revenue growth of $237 million and $51 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, as compared with the prior years due to the increase in the market prices of the recycling commodities we sell at our recycling facilities and through our recycling brokerage business. However, beginning in September 2017, disruptions in the global movement of recycling commodities and the impact of natural disasters along the Gulf Coast decreased market prices for recycling commodities, which reduced our revenues in the fourth quarter of 2017 as compared with the prior year period. We expect these disruptions in the market for recycling commodities to extend through the first half of 2018, which will continue to put downward pressure on average market prices for recycling commodities.  

 Fuel Surcharges and Mandated Fees — These revenues, which are predominantly generated by our fuel surcharge program, increased $73 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 and decreased $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, as compared with the prior years. These revenues fluctuate in response to changes in the national average prices for diesel fuel on which our surcharge is based. Market prices for diesel fuel increased 15% for the year ended December 31, 2017 and decreased 14% for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared with the prior years. The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to pass-through fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal government agencies at our landfills and transfer stations. These fees did not have a significant impact on the comparability of the periods presented.  

 Volume  

 Our revenues from volume increased $289 million, or 2.1%, and $186 million, or 1.4%, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, as compared with the prior years. The comparison does not include volumes from acquisitions.  

 We experienced higher volumes due to improving market conditions and strong sales performance. Our focus on customer service and disciplined growth delivered consistent results throughout 2017 and 2016. The most significant contributors to our volume growth were commercial and industrial collection; municipal solid waste and construction and demolition landfills; and transfer stations. Our residential line of business experienced volume declines in 2017 and 2016 due to our continued focus on renegotiating existing contracts and winning only those new contracts with a reasonable rate of return.  

 40  

 Table of Contents  

 Additional drivers affecting the comparability of volumes for 2017 to 2016 are as follows:  

   ·    Over $60 million of our landfill volume increases resulted from events during 2017 that may not repeat, including natural disasters throughout the U.S. primarily in the fourth quarter of 2017 and from an eleven-month outage at a waste-to-energy facility in Virginia that ended in mid-December; 

   ·    Two large new contract additions in 2017 that favorably impacted our volume growth;  

   ·    Our WMSBS organization experienced favorable volume growth; 

   ·    The completion of certain project work performed throughout 2016 in our collection line of business in Southern California and other line of business from our EES organization negatively impacted our volume growth; and 

   ·    One less workday in 2017 negatively impacted our volume growth. 

 Additional drivers affecting the comparability of volumes for 2016 to 2015 are as follows:  

   ·    In our ancillary services businesses, we experienced higher volumes in 2016 as compared with 2015 resulting from our EES organization, particularly our remediation and construction services, our WM Renewable Energy organization and our portable self-storage business. These volume increases were partially offset by lower volumes due to lower oil prices, which negatively affected both our oil and gas producing properties and our oilfield services business; and 

   ·    An additional workday in 2016 favorably impacted our volume growth. 

 Acquisitions and Divestitures  

 Acquisitions increased revenues $48 million and $268 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, as compared with the prior years. The increase in revenues in 2016 was principally due to the acquired operations of SWS in January 2016. These revenues were partially offset by revenue decreases due to divestitures of $27 million and $30 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, as compared with the prior years.  

 Operating Expenses  

 Our operating expenses are comprised of (i) labor and related benefits costs (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs discussed below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs costs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are affected by variables such as volumes, distance and fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which includes the cost to purchase recycling materials for our recycling business, including rebates paid to suppliers; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees, contingent landfill lease payments and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include interest accretion on landfill liabilities, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs and other landfill site costs; (ix) risk management costs, which include general liability, automobile liability, workers’ compensation and insurance and claim costs and (x) other operating costs, which include telecommunications, equipment and facility lease expenses, property taxes, utilities and supplies.  

 41  

 Table of Contents  

 The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our operating expenses increased $535 million, or 6.3%, when comparing 2017 with 2016 and $255 million, or 3.1%, when comparing 2016 with 2015. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 62.3% in 2017, 62.4% in 2016 and 63.5% in 2015.  

 Significant items affecting the comparison of operating expenses between reported periods include:  

 Labor and Related Benefits — The increase in labor and related benefits costs in 2017 as compared with 2016 was due to (i) merit increases; (ii) increased headcount driven, in part, by higher volumes and (iii) charges for the withdrawal from certain Multiemployer Pension Plans. These cost increases were partially offset by one less workday in 2017.  

 The increase in labor and related benefits costs in 2016 as compared with 2015 was due to (i) merit increases; (ii) additional costs associated with the acquired operations of SWS in January 2016; (iii) health and welfare cost increases; (iv) an additional workday in 2016 and (v) higher incentive compensation accruals. These cost increases were partially offset by (i) $51 million of charges in 2015 for the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans and (ii) lower headcount and contract labor costs in 2016 due to operating efficiencies in our recycling line of business.  

 Transfer and Disposal Costs — The increase in transfer and disposal costs in 2017 compared with 2016 was primarily driven by higher volumes. The increase in costs in 2016 compared with 2015 was driven by acquisitions, primarily SWS, and higher volumes.  

 Maintenance and Repairs — The increase in maintenance and repairs costs in 2017 compared with 2016 was primarily driven by (i) higher third-party repairs and parts costs and (ii) higher labor costs due to increased headcount, merit increases, and retention and training efforts. The increase in costs in 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily driven by (i) higher labor and parts and supplies costs and (ii) acquisitions, primarily the acquired operations of SWS.  

 Subcontractor Costs — Increases in subcontractor costs in 2017 compared with 2016 were driven by higher volumes in our Solid Waste business and our WMSBS organization. The increase in costs in 2016 compared with 2015 was driven by acquisitions and higher volumes in our WMSBS organization. The increases for both years were partially offset by a decrease in subcontracted remediation and construction services to industrial customers.  

 Cost of Goods Sold — The increase in cost of goods sold in 2017 compared with 2016 was due to higher market prices for recycling commodities, partially offset by lower costs due to (i) continued efforts to restructure recycling rebates paid to customers and (ii) the divestiture of a majority-owned organics company in 2016. The increase in costs in 2016 compared with 2015 was due to (i) higher market prices for recycling commodities and (ii) increased costs in our remediation and construction services business, partially offset by lower costs due to continued efforts to restructure recycling rebates paid to customers.  

 42  

 Table of Contents  

 Fuel — The increase in fuel costs in 2017 compared with 2016 was primarily due to (i) higher fuel prices; (ii) the expiration of certain natural gas fuel excise tax credits as of December 31, 2016 and (iii) higher volumes in our collection line of business. These cost increases were partially offset by (i) lower costs resulting from the continued conversion of our fleet to natural gas vehicles and (ii) reduced fuel consumption due to efficiency gains in the routing of our fleet. The decrease in fuel costs in 2016 compared with 2015 was driven by (i) lower fuel prices; (ii) lower costs resulting from the continued conversion of our fleet to natural gas vehicles; (iii) increases in natural gas fuel excise credits and (iv) reduced fuel consumption due to efficiency gains in the routing of our fleet. The higher volumes in our collection line of business in 2016 partially offset these decreases.  

 Disposal and Franchise Fees and Taxes — The increase in disposal and franchise fees and taxes in 2017 compared with 2016 is primarily due to higher landfill volumes and increased municipal franchise fees. The increase in 2016 compared with 2015 is primarily due to (i) higher landfill volumes; (ii) increased municipal franchise fees and (iii) increased subcontracted remediation and construction services to industrial customers.  

 Landfill Operating Costs — The most significant item impacting landfill operating costs for the periods presented was landfill leachate management costs, which were lower in 2017 compared to 2016 and higher in 2016 compared to 2015.   

 Risk Management — The increase in risk management costs in 2017 compared with 2016 was primarily due to increases in certain uninsured losses. The decrease in costs in 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily due to a reduction in certain uninsured losses and, to a lesser extent, decreased workers’ compensation claims.  

 Other — The changes in other operating costs in the reported periods were principally driven by favorable adjustments to our contingent consideration liabilities associated with certain acquisitions in 2016 and fluctuations in operating lease expenses. Operating lease expenses were higher in 2017 compared with 2016 and lower in 2016 when compared with 2015.  

 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

 Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor and related benefits costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity-based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees and (iv) other selling, general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility-related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, bank charges, computer costs, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our “Other” selling, general and administrative expenses.  

 The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our selling, general and administrative expenses increased $58 million, or 4.1%, when comparing 2017 with 2016 and $67 million, or 5.0%, when comparing 2016 with 2015. Our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 10.1% in 2017 and 10.4% in 2016 and 2015.  

 43  

 Table of Contents  

 Significant items affecting the comparison of our selling, general and administrative expenses between reported periods include:  

 Labor and Related Benefits — The increase in labor and related benefits costs in 2017 compared with 2016 was primarily due to (i) merit increases; (ii) an increase in certain costs that vary with revenue and earnings growth, including incentive compensation accruals and (iii) higher severance costs for former executives in 2017. The increase in costs in 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily due to (i) higher incentive compensation accruals; (ii) merit increases; (iii) higher severance costs and (iv) acquisitions.  

 Professional Fees — The decrease in professional fees in 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily due to lower legal fees.  

 Other — The increase in other expenses in 2017 compared with 2016 was primarily due to favorable litigation settlements in 2016 and charitable contributions made for hurricane relief efforts in 2017. The decrease in other expenses in 2016 compared with 2015 was principally driven by favorable litigation settlements and lower bank charges.  

 Depreciation and Amortization Expenses  

 Depreciation and amortization expenses include (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded for capital leases, on a straight-line basis from three to 40 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction and asset retirement costs arising from closure and post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the total estimated remaining capacity of a site, which includes both permitted capacity and expansion capacity that meets our Company-specific criteria for amortization purposes; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units-of-consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, using either a 150% declining balance approach or a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are generally from two to 15 years depending on the type of asset.  

 The following table summarizes the components of our depreciation and amortization expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The increase in amortization of landfill airspace during 2017 as compared with the prior year is primarily due to higher volumes at our landfills and changes in our landfill estimates.  

 The increase in depreciation of tangible property and equipment and amortization of intangible assets during 2016 as compared with the prior year is primarily due to the acquired operations of SWS in January 2016. The increase in amortization of landfill airspace during 2016 as compared with the prior year is due to higher volumes at our landfills, partially offset by changes in our landfill estimates.  

 44  

 Table of Contents  

 (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items, Net  

 The following table summarizes the major components of (income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items, net for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 During the year ended December 31, 2017, we recognized net income of $16 million, primarily related to (i) gains of $31 million from the sale of certain oil and gas producing properties and (ii) a $30 million reduction in post-closing, performance-based contingent consideration obligations associated with an acquired business in our EES organization. These gains were partially offset by (i) $34 million of goodwill impairment charges primarily related to our EES organization; (ii) $11 million of charges to adjust our subsidiary’s estimated potential share of an environmental remediation liability and related costs for a closed site in Harris County, Texas, as discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and (iii) $7 million of charges to write down certain renewable energy assets.  

 During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recognized net charges of $112 million, primarily related to (i) $44 million of charges to adjust our subsidiary’s estimated potential share of an environmental remediation liability and related costs for a closed site in Harris County, Texas, as discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements; (ii) a $43 million charge to impair a landfill in Western Pennsylvania due to a loss of expected volumes; (iii) $12 million of goodwill impairment charges primarily related to our LampTracker® reporting unit and (iv) an $8 million loss on the sale of a majority-owned organics company.  

 During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized net charges of $82 million, primarily related to (i) $66 million of charges to impair certain oil and gas producing properties as a result of declines in oil and gas prices; (ii) $18 million of charges to write down or divest certain assets in our recycling operations and (iii) a $5 million impairment of a landfill in our Western Canada Area due to revised post-closure cost estimates. Partially offsetting these charges was $7 million of net gains from divestitures, including a $6 million gain on the sale of an oil and gas producing property in 2015.  

 See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the accounting policy and analysis involved in identifying and calculating impairments.  

 45  

 Table of Contents  

 Income from Operations  

 The following table summarizes income from operations for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 All information presented has been updated to reflect our realigned segments which are discussed further in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Solid Waste — The most significant items affecting the results of operations of our Solid Waste business during the three years ended December 31, 2017 are summarized below:  

 The following items affected both comparable periods:  

   ·    Our Traditional Solid Waste business benefited from internal revenue growth; 

   ·    Our recycling line of business was favorable principally due to higher market prices for recycling commodities; and 

   ·    The impairment charge for a landfill in Tier 3 in 2016 due to a loss of expected volumes. 

 In addition, the following items affected 2017 when compared with 2016:  

   ·    Higher labor and related benefits costs in the current year primarily due to merit increases and charges for the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans, primarily in Tier 3; 

   ·    Decreased landfill leachate management costs in Tier 3; 

   ·    Increased landfill amortization expense related to higher volumes at our landfills and changes in our landfill estimates, primarily in Tier 3; and 

   ·    Increased maintenance and repairs costs. 

 In addition, the following items affected 2016 when compared with 2015:  

   ·    Increased landfill leachate management costs in Tier 3 in 2016; 

   ·    Higher labor and related benefit costs in 2016 due to merit increases, higher incentive compensation accruals and increases in health and welfare costs;  

   ·    Charges of $51 million for the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans in 2015 impacting all three tiers; and 

   ·    Improvements in our recycling line of business due to cost reductions and charges to write down or divest certain recycling assets in 2015 in Tier 1 and Tier 3. 

 Other — Our “Other” income from operations includes (i) our WMSBS organization; (ii) those elements of our landfill gas-to-energy operations and third-party subcontract and administration revenues managed by our EES and WM Renewable Energy organizations that are not included in operations of our reportable segments; (iii) our recycling brokerage services and (iv) our expanded service offerings and solutions, such as portable self-storage and long distance 

 46  

 Table of Contents  

moving services, fluorescent bulb and universal waste mail-back through our LampTracker® program, and interests we hold in oil and gas producing properties.  

 The following items affected both comparable periods:  

   ·    Expenses from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items related to a loss on the sale of a majority-owned organics company and the goodwill impairment charge associated with our LampTracker® reporting unit in 2016. 

 The following items affected 2017 when compared with 2016:  

   ·    Gains from the sale of certain oil and gas producing properties in 2017; and 

   ·    Goodwill impairment charges, partially offset by a reduction in contingent consideration obligations, in our EES organization. 

 The following items affected 2016 when compared with 2015:  

   ·    Impairment charges of $66 million related to oil and gas producing properties recognized in 2015; 

   ·    Our EES organization’s results were higher in 2016 principally driven by an increase in remediation and construction services costs to industrial customers in 2015; and 

   ·    Increased costs in our WMSBS organization driven, in part, by the transfer of certain sales employees from our Corporate and Other segment to this segment in 2016. 

 Corporate and Other  

 The following items affected 2017 when compared with 2016:  

   ·    Charges in both years to adjust our subsidiary’s estimated potential share of an environmental remediation liability and related costs for a closed site in Harris County, Texas, primarily in 2016; 

   ·    Higher labor and related benefits costs in the current year were primarily related to higher incentive compensation accruals, merit increases and severance costs; and 

   ·    A favorable litigation settlement providing for the reimbursement of certain legal fees in 2016. 

 The following items affected 2016 when compared with 2015:  

   ·    Higher labor and related benefit costs in 2016 due to higher incentive compensation accruals, severance costs, health and welfare costs and merit increases; 

   ·    An increase in a subsidiary’s estimated potential share of an environmental remediation liability and related costs for a closed site in Harris County, Texas in 2016; 

   ·    Decreased risk management costs in 2016; and 

   ·    The transfer of certain sales employees to our Other segment from this segment in 2016. 

 Interest Expense, Net  

 Our interest expense, net was $363 million, $376 million and $385 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. During 2017, the decrease in interest expense was primarily attributable to higher capitalized interest on certain projects under development and the early repayment of high-coupon senior notes and issuance of new senior notes at lower coupon interest rates in 2017. During 2016, the decrease in interest expense was primarily attributable to the impact of lower market interest rates on certain of our tax-exempt bonds, partially offset by increased borrowings under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility.  

 47  

 Table of Contents  

 Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt  

 Loss on early extinguishment of debt was $6 million, $4 million and $555 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The amount for 2015 was primarily associated with the early extinguishment of almost $2 billion of our high-coupon senior notes through make-whole redemption and cash tender offers. We replaced substantially all of the debt extinguished with new senior notes at significantly lower coupon interest rates and extended the weighted average duration of these debt obligations. The loss on early extinguishment of debt reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for 2015 includes $122 million of charges related to make-whole redemptions and $430 million of charges related to cash tender offers.  

 Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities  

 We recognized equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities of $68 million, $44 million and $38 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The amount in 2017 includes impairment charges of $29 million to write down equity method investments in waste diversion technology companies to their estimated fair values. The remaining losses for each period are primarily related to our noncontrolling interests in entities established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties and a refined coal facility. The tax impacts realized as a result of our investments in low-income housing properties and the refined coal facility are discussed below in Income Tax Expense. Refer to Notes 8 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these investments.   

 Other, Net  

 We recognized other, net expense of $8 million, $50 million and $7 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The expenses for 2017, 2016 and 2015 were impacted by impairment charges of $11 million, $42 million and $5 million, respectively, related to other-than-temporary declines in the value of minority-owned investments in waste diversion technology companies. In addition, we recognized $8 million of expense during 2016 associated with the termination of our cross-currency swaps, which is discussed further in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Income Tax Expense  

 We recorded income tax expense of $242 million, $642 million and $308 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, resulting in effective income tax rates of 11.0%, 35.2% and 29.1% for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years presented is primarily affected by (i) variations in our income before income taxes, as discussed above; (ii) impacts of enactment of tax reform; (iii) federal tax credits; (iv) excess tax benefits associated with equity-based compensation transactions; (v) the tax implications of impairments; (vi) the realization of state net operating losses and credits; (vii) adjustments to our accruals and related deferred taxes and (viii) tax audit settlements. The impacts of these items are summarized below:  

   ·    Impacts of Enactment of Tax Reform — The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”) was signed into law on December 22, 2017 and is generally effective for tax years beginning January 1, 2018. The most significant impacts of the Act to the Company include a decrease in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and a one-time, mandatory transition tax on deemed repatriation of previously tax-deferred and unremitted foreign earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2017, we had an income tax benefit of $529 million consisting of a net tax benefit of $595 million for the re-measurement of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities due to the decrease in the federal corporate income tax rate, partially offset by income tax expense of $66 million for the one-time, mandatory transition tax. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to the impacts of enactment of the Act. 

   ·    Investments Qualifying for Federal Tax Credits — Our low-income housing properties and refined coal facility investments reduced our income tax expense by $51 million, $55 million and $57 million, primarily as a result of the tax credits realized from these investments for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these investments. 

 48  

 Table of Contents  

   ·    Other Federal Tax Credits — During 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recognized federal tax credits in addition to the tax credits realized from our investments in low-income housing properties and the refined coal facility, resulting in a reduction in our income tax expense of $13 million, $14 million and $15 million, respectively. 

   ·    Equity-Based Compensation — The excess tax benefits related to the vesting or exercise of equity-based compensation awards reduced our income tax expense by $37 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of our adoption of ASU 2016‑09. 

   ·    Tax Implications of Impairments — Portions of the impairment charges recognized during the reported years are not deductible for tax purposes. Had the charges been fully deductible, our income tax expense would have been reduced by $15 million, $15 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our impairment charges. 

   ·    State Net Operating Losses and Credits — During 2017, 2016 and 2015, we recognized state net operating losses and credits resulting in a reduction in our income tax expense of $12 million, $10 million and $17 million, respectively. 

   ·    Adjustments to Accruals and Related Deferred Taxes – Adjustments to our accruals and related deferred taxes due to the filing of our income tax returns and changes in state laws resulted in a reduction of $5 million, $10 million and $18 million in our income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

   ·    Tax Audit Settlements — The settlement of various tax audits resulted in a reduction in our income tax expense of $2 million, $11 million and $10 million for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 

 Based on current tax laws and regulations as modified by the Act effective January 1, 2018, we expect our 2018 recurring effective tax rate will be approximately 26.0% based on projected income before income taxes, federal tax credits and other permanent items. The estimated 2018 rate incorporates the benefit of the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate to 21%, as well as the impacts of other less material provisions included in the Act.  

 Landfill and Environmental Remediation Discussion and Analysis  

 We owned or operated 244 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills as of December 31, 2017 and 243 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills as of December 31, 2016. For these landfills, the following table reflects changes in capacity, as measured in tons of waste, for the years ended December 31 and remaining capacity, measured in cubic yards of waste, as of December 31 (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    Amounts reflected here relate to the combined impacts of (i) new expansions pursued; (ii) increases or decreases in the airspace being pursued for ongoing expansion efforts; (iii) adjustments for differences between the airspace being pursued and airspace granted and (iv) decreases due to decisions to no longer pursue expansion permits, if any. 

 49  

 Table of Contents  

   (b)    We received expansion permits at nine of our landfills during 2017 and 13 of our landfills during 2016, demonstrating our continued success in working with municipalities and regulatory agencies to expand the disposal capacity of our existing landfills. 

   (c)    Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site-specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate and operating practices. We continually focus on improving the utilization of airspace through efforts that may include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training. 

 The tons received at our landfills in 2017 and 2016 are shown below (tons in thousands):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    In 2017, we acquired two landfills and we closed one landfill. 

   (b)    These amounts include 1.8 million tons and 1.2 million tons as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, that were received at our landfills but were used for beneficial purposes and generally were redirected from the permitted airspace to other areas of the landfill. Waste types that are frequently identified for beneficial use include green waste for composting and clean dirt for on-site construction projects. 

 When a landfill we own or operate receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, we generally transfer the management of the site, including any remediation activities, to our closed sites management group. As of December 31, 2017, our closed sites management group managed 204 closed landfills.  

 Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2017 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 43 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes, disposal prices, construction and operating costs, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are seeking expansion permits at 15 of our landfills that meet the expansion criteria outlined in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions — Landfills section above. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 45 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume.  

 50  

 Table of Contents  

 The number of landfills owned or operated as of December 31, 2017, segregated by their estimated operating lives based on remaining permitted and expansion capacity and projected annual disposal volume, was as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    Of the 249 landfills, 201 are owned, 35 are operated under lease agreements and 13 are operated under other contractual agreements. For the landfills not owned, we are usually responsible for final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. 

 As of December 31, 2017, we have 15 landfills which are not currently accepting waste. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we performed tests of recoverability for seven of these landfills with an aggregate net recorded capitalized landfill asset cost of $282 million, for which the undiscounted expected future cash flows resulting from our probability-weighted estimation approach exceeded the carrying values. We did not perform recoverability tests for the remaining eight landfills as the net recorded capitalized landfill asset cost was immaterial.  

 Landfill Assets — We capitalize various costs that we incur to prepare a landfill to accept waste. These costs generally include expenditures for land (including the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property), permitting, excavation, liner material and installation, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. The cost basis of our landfill assets also includes estimates of future costs associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities, which are discussed further below.  

 The changes to the cost basis of our landfill assets and accumulated landfill airspace amortization for the year ended December 31, 2017 are reflected in the table below:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 As of December 31, 2017, we estimate that we will spend approximately $400 million in 2018, and approximately $1 billion in 2019 and 2020 combined, for the construction and development of our landfill assets. The specific timing of landfill capital spending is dependent on future events and spending estimates are subject to change due to fluctuations in landfill waste volumes, changes in environmental requirements and other factors impacting landfill operations.  

 Landfill and Environmental Remediation Liabilities — As we accept waste at our landfills, we incur significant asset retirement obligations, which include liabilities associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities. These liabilities are accounted for in accordance with authoritative guidance on accounting for asset retirement obligations and are discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have liabilities for the remediation of properties that have incurred environmental damage, which generally was caused by operations or for damage caused by 

 51  

 Table of Contents  

conditions that existed before we acquired operations or a site. We recognize environmental remediation liabilities when we determine that the liability is probable and the estimated cost for the likely remedy can be reasonably estimated.  

 The changes to landfill and environmental remediation liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2017 are reflected in the table below (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    The amount reported for our landfill liabilities includes (i) a net increase of $19 million related to our year-end annual review of landfill final capping, closure and post-closure obligations and (ii) an increase of $12 million primarily for enhancements of our gas and leachate collection systems at certain closed landfills. 

   (b)    Our environmental remediation liabilities include $11 million of charges to adjust our subsidiary’s estimated potential share of an environmental remediation liability and related costs for a closed site in Harris County, Texas, as discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 Landfill Operating Costs — The following table summarizes our landfill operating costs for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    Leachate management costs have increased in 2017 and 2016 as compared to 2015 because, in certain parts of the country, we are transporting leachate further in order to reach treatment facilities, the third-party fees charged for treatment of waste water have increased and the volume of leachate being disposed has increased. 

 Amortization of Landfill Airspace — Amortization of landfill airspace, which is included as a component of depreciation and amortization expenses, includes the following:  

   ·    the amortization of landfill capital costs, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) estimated future costs for landfill development and construction required to develop our landfills to their remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and 

   ·    the amortization of asset retirement costs arising from landfill final capping, closure and post-closure obligations, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) projected asset retirement costs. 

 Amortization expense is recorded on a units-of-consumption basis, applying cost as a rate per ton. The rate per ton is calculated by dividing each component of the amortizable basis of a landfill by the number of tons needed to fill the corresponding asset’s airspace. Landfill capital costs and closure and post-closure asset retirement costs are generally incurred to support the operation of the landfill over its entire operating life and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using a landfill’s total airspace capacity. Final capping asset retirement costs are related to a specific final capping event 

 52  

 Table of Contents  

and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using each discrete final capping event’s estimated airspace capacity. Accordingly, each landfill has multiple per-ton amortization rates.  

 The following table presents our landfill airspace amortization expense on a per-ton basis for the years ended December 31:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Different per-ton amortization rates are applied at each of our 249 landfills, and per-ton amortization rates vary significantly from one landfill to another due to (i) inconsistencies that often exist in construction costs and provincial, state and local regulatory requirements for landfill development and landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities and (ii) differences in the cost basis of landfills that we develop versus those that we acquire. Accordingly, our landfill airspace amortization expense measured on a per-ton basis can fluctuate due to changes in the mix of volumes we receive across the Company each year.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet and landfill equipment; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at our MRFs; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) final capping, closure and post-closure activities at our landfills; (vi) the repayment of debt, payment of interest and discharging of other obligations and (vii) capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments in assets that support our strategy of continuous improvement through efficiency and innovation. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through dividend payments and our common stock repurchase program.  

 Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations  

 The following is a summary of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31 (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We use long-term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax-exempt bonds to borrow on a long-term basis, but we also use other instruments and facilities, when appropriate. The components of our borrowings as of December 31, 2017 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 53  

 Table of Contents  

 Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2017 were primarily attributable to (i) net debt borrowings of $172 million and (ii) the impacts of other non-cash changes in our debt balances due to debt issuance costs, discounts, premiums, foreign currency translation and terminated interest rate derivatives.  

 As of December 31, 2017, the current portion of our long-term debt balance of $739 million includes (i) $515 million of short-term borrowings under our commercial paper program and (ii) $224 million of other debt with scheduled maturities within the next 12 months, including $167 million of tax-exempt bonds.  

 We have $831 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that expire within the next 12 months and an additional $328 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds that are supported by letters of credit. The interest rates on our variable-rate tax-exempt bonds are generally reset on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process. All recent tax-exempt bond remarketings have successfully placed Company bonds with investors at market-driven rates and we currently expect future remarketings to be successful. However, if the remarketing agent is unable to remarket our bonds, the remarketing agent can put the bonds to us. In the event of a failed remarketing, we have the intent and ability to refinance these bonds on a long-term basis as supported by the forecasted available capacity under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility. Accordingly, we have classified these borrowings as long-term in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017.  

 We have credit facilities in place to support our liquidity and financial assurance needs. The following table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit, categorized by type of facility as of December 31 (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    As of December 31, 2017, we had no outstanding borrowings under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility maturing July 2020. We had $642 million of letters of credit issued and $515 million of outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program, both supported by this facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,093 million as of December 31, 2017. 

   (b)    As of December 31, 2017, we had utilized $507 million of other letter of credit facilities, which are both committed and uncommitted, with terms extending through December 2018. 

 Summary of Cash Flow Activity  

 The following is a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    Prior year information has been revised to reflect the adoption of ASU 2016‑09 and conform to our current year presentation. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows in 2017 as compared with 2016 are summarized below:  

   ·    Increase in Earnings — Our income from operations, excluding depreciation and amortization, and asset impairments and unusual items, increased by $287 million in 2017, principally driven by higher earnings from our Traditional Solid Waste and recycling businesses. 

 54  

 Table of Contents  

   ·    Increase in Income Tax Payments — Cash paid for income taxes was $120 million higher in 2017, largely driven by higher earnings and timing of income tax payments. 

   ·    Cross-Currency Swaps — During 2016, we terminated our cross-currency swaps associated with the anticipated cash flows of intercompany loans between WM Holdings and its wholly-owned Canadian subsidiaries, as discussed further in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the termination, we received cash proceeds of $67 million, which were classified as a change in other current assets and other assets. 

   ·    Increase in Annual Incentive Plan Cash Payments — Payments for our annual incentive plans are typically made in the first quarter of the year based on prior year performance. Our net cash flow from operating activities was unfavorably impacted by $41 million due to higher annual incentive plan cash payments made in 2017. 

   ·    Changes in Assets and Liabilities, Net of Effects of Acquisitions and Divestitures — Our net cash provided by operating activities was favorably impacted by changes in assets and liabilities, exclusive of the items noted above. 

 The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows in 2016 as compared with 2015 are summarized below:  

   ·    Increase in Earnings — Our income from operations, excluding depreciation and amortization, and asset impairments and unusual items, increased by $337 million, principally driven by higher earnings from our Traditional Solid Waste and recycling businesses. Our 2015 results included $51 million of charges for the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans. 

   ·    Cross-Currency Swaps — During 2016, we terminated our cross-currency swaps and received cash proceeds of $67 million, which were classified as a change in other current assets and other assets. 

   ·    Decrease in Annual Incentive Plan Cash Payments — Our net cash provided by operating activities was favorably impacted by $46 million as the annual incentive cash payments made in 2016 were lower than the cash payments made in 2015. 

   ·    Multiemployer Pension Plan Settlements — In 2015, we paid approximately $60 million for the withdrawal from certain underfunded Multiemployer Pension Plans. 

   ·    Increase in Income Tax Payments — Cash paid for income taxes was $23 million higher largely driven by higher earnings in 2016. 

   ·    Changes in Assets and Liabilities, Net of Effects of Acquisitions and Divestitures — Our net cash provided by operating activities was favorably impacted by changes in assets and liabilities, exclusive of the items noted above. 

 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   ·    Capital Expenditures — We used $1,509 million, $1,339 million and $1,233 million for capital expenditures in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The Company continues to maintain a disciplined focus on capital management and fluctuations in our capital expenditures are a result of new business opportunities, growth in our existing business, the timing of replacement of aging assets and investment in assets that support our strategy of continuous improvement through efficiency and innovation. 

   ·    Net Receipts from Restricted Funds — Net cash received in 2017 from our restricted trust and escrow accounts of $243 million primarily relates to $172 million of cash received from tax-exempt bond trust funds and $75 million for reimbursement of insurance claims from a wholly-owned insurance captive. The tax-exempt bond trust funds received during 2017 relate to two issuances, for which the cash proceeds from the issuances are recognized as an investing cash inflow as qualifying capital expenditures are reimbursed from the trust fund. These activities were treated as a non-cash financing activity when borrowed. See Notes 3 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these restricted trust and escrow accounts. 

 55  

 Table of Contents  

Net cash received in 2015 from our restricted trust and escrow accounts of $51 million relates to our replacement of funded trust and escrow accounts with alternative forms of financial assurance. 

   ·    Acquisitions — Our spending on acquisitions was $200 million, $611 million and $554 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our 2017 acquisitions related to our Solid Waste business. In 2016, $525 million of our spending on acquisitions was for certain operations and business assets of SWS. The remainder of our 2016 acquisition spending primarily related to our Solid Waste business. In 2015, $400 million of our spending on acquisitions was for the collection and disposal operations of Deffenbaugh. The remainder of our 2015 acquisition spending primarily related to our Solid Waste business. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our acquisitions. We continue to focus on accretive acquisitions and growth opportunities that will enhance and expand our existing service offerings. 

   ·    Proceeds from Divestitures — Proceeds from divestitures of businesses and other assets (net of cash divested) were $99 million in 2017, $43 million in 2016 and $145 million in 2015. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, $62 million, $2 million and $79 million of these divestitures, respectively, were made as part of our continuous focus on improving or divesting certain non-strategic or underperforming operations, with the remaining amounts generally related to the sale of fixed assets. 

 Net Cash Used in Financing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   ·    Debt Borrowings (Repayments) — The following summarizes our cash borrowings and repayments of debt (excluding our commercial paper program discussed below) for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 During 2017, we had $452 million of non-cash financing activities due to the initial funding of a wholly-owned insurance captive and tax-exempt bond borrowings. During 2016 and 2015, we did not have any significant non-cash investing and financing activities. Non-cash investing and financing activities are generally excluded from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.  

 Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our debt borrowings and repayments.  

   ·    Commercial Paper Program — During 2017, we had net cash borrowings of $513 million (net of the related discount on issuance) under our commercial paper program. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our commercial paper program. 

   ·    Common Stock Repurchase Program — For the periods presented, all share repurchases have been made in accordance with financial plans approved by our Board of Directors. 

 56  

 Table of Contents  

 We paid $750 million, $725 million and $600 million for common stock repurchases during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

 We announced in December 2017 that the Board of Directors has authorized up to $1.25 billion in future share repurchases. Any future share repurchases will be made at the discretion of management and will depend on factors similar to those considered by the Board of Directors in making dividend declarations.  

   ·    Cash Dividends — For the periods presented, all dividends have been declared by our Board of Directors. 

 We paid aggregate cash dividends of $750 million, $726 million and $695 million during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.385 in 2015 to $0.41 in 2016 and to $0.425 in 2017 and has been offset, in part, by a reduction in our common stock outstanding as a result of our common stock repurchase program.  

 In December 2017, we announced that our Board of Directors expects to increase the quarterly dividend from $0.425 to $0.465 per share for dividends declared in 2018. However, all future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future business plans and other factors the Board of Directors may deem relevant.  

   ·    Proceeds from the Exercise of Common Stock Options — The exercise of common stock options generated financing cash inflows of $95 million, $63 million and $77 million during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The year-over-year changes are generally due to the number of stock options exercised and the exercise price of those options. 

   ·    Premiums Paid on Early Extinguishment of Debt — Premiums paid on early extinguishment of debt were $8 million, $2 million and $555 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The amount for 2015 was primarily related to (i) make-whole premiums paid on certain senior notes that the Company decided to redeem in advance of their scheduled maturities and (ii) premiums paid to tender certain high-coupon senior notes. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these transactions. 

 Summary of Contractual Obligations  

 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2017 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions):  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   (a)    Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation costs recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017, without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities for final capping, closure and post-closure will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills. 

   (b)    These amounts represent the scheduled principal payments related to our long-term debt, excluding interest. 

   (c)    Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2017 include $831 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that expire within the next 12 months. If the remarketings of our bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can 

 57  

 Table of Contents  

be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowings for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2017, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

   (d)    Our recorded debt obligations include non-cash adjustments associated with debt issuance costs, discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments attributable to terminated interest rate derivatives. These amounts have been excluded as they will not impact our liquidity in future periods. 

   (e)    Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods and interest payable on our debt. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 

   (f)    Interest on our fixed-rate debt was calculated based on contractual rates and interest on our variable-rate debt was calculated based on interest rates as of December 31, 2017. For debt balances outstanding under our commercial paper program, we have reflected limited interest amounts due to the short-term nature of the borrowings. For debt balances outstanding under our Canadian term loan, we have reflected interest based on the current outstanding principal assuming the amount remains unchanged through maturity. As of December 31, 2017, we had $61 million of accrued interest related to our debt obligations. 

   (g)    Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For contracts that require us to purchase minimum quantities of goods or services, we have estimated our future minimum obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. Accordingly, the amounts reported in the table are subject to change and actual cash flow obligations in the near future may be different. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations. 

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 We have financial interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities as discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2017, nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

 New Accounting Standards Pending Adoption  

 Income Taxes — In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016‑16 associated with the timing of recognition of income taxes for intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. The amended guidance requires the recognition of income taxes when the transfer of the asset occurs, which replaces current GAAP that defers the recognition of income taxes until the transferred asset is sold to a third party or otherwise recovered through use. The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018 and will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

 Statement of Cash Flows — In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016‑15 associated with the classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows. In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016‑18 associated with the presentation of restricted cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. The objective of both amendments was to reduce existing diversity in practice. The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018 and, upon adoption, the principal change for the Company will be in the presentation of restricted cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows, which will include substantially all of the restricted trust and escrow accounts reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

 Financial Instrument Credit Losses — In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016‑13 associated with the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments. The amended guidance replaces the current incurred loss impairment methodology of recognizing credit losses when a loss is probable, with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses 

 58  

 Table of Contents  

and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to assess credit loss estimates. The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted beginning January 1, 2019. We are assessing the provisions of this amended guidance and evaluating the impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

 Leases — In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016‑02 associated with lease accounting. The amended guidance requires the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet for those leases with terms in excess of 12 months and currently classified as operating leases. The disclosure of key information about leasing arrangements will also be required. The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2019. We are assessing the provisions of this amended guidance and we have (i) formed an implementation work team; (ii) performed training for the various organizations that will be most affected by the new standard and (iii) acquired a software solution to manage and account for leases under the new standard. We are evaluating the impact of this amended guidance on our consolidated financial statements.  

 Financial Instruments — In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016‑01 associated with the recognition and measurement of financial assets and liabilities. The amended guidance will require certain equity investments that are not consolidated and not accounted for under the equity method to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income rather than as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The amended guidance is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018 and will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

 Revenue Recognition — In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014‑09 associated with revenue recognition. The amended guidance requires companies to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Additionally, the amendments will require enhanced qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding customer contracts. The amended guidance associated with revenue recognition is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018. The amended guidance may be applied retrospectively for all periods presented (“full retrospective method”) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the amended guidance recognized at the date of initial adoption (“modified retrospective method”). The Company is currently planning to adopt the amended guidance using the modified retrospective method as of January 1, 2018.  

 To assess the impact of the standard, we utilized internal resources to lead the implementation effort and supplemented them with external resources. Our internal resources read the amended guidance, attended trainings and consulted with other accounting professionals to assist with interpretation of the amended guidance. Surveys were sent to and returned by all operating segments to assess the potential impact of the amended guidance and to tailor specific procedures to evaluate the potential impact. Based on the results of these surveys, we judgmentally selected a sample of contracts based on size and specifically identified contract traits that could be accounted for differently under the amended guidance. We also selected a representative sample of contracts to corroborate the survey results.  

 Based on our work to date, we believe we have identified all material contract types and costs that may be impacted by this amended guidance. We currently do not expect the amended guidance to have a material impact on operating revenues. However, upon adoption of the amended guidance, certain sales incentives will be capitalized and amortized to selling, general and administrative expenses over the expected life of the customer relationship. Under current guidance, sales incentives are expensed as earned to selling, general and administrative expenses. Additionally, the amended guidance resulted in a change in who we identify as a customer for certain arrangements. We anticipate payments to these customers will be a reduction in operating revenues. Under current guidance, these payments are recorded as operating expenses.  

 Inflation  

 While inflationary increases in costs can affect our income from operations margins, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, as of December 31, 2017, approximately 35% of our collection revenues are generated under long-term 

 59  

 Table of Contents  

agreements with price adjustments based on various indices intended to measure inflation. Additionally, management’s estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.