Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 INDEX  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 46   
 Introduction   

 Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals.  

 Our activities are divided into three segments:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Unless specifically stated otherwise, all references to 2007, 2006 and 2005 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, November 30, 2007, November 24, 2006 and November 25, 2005, respectively.  

 When we use the terms “Goldman Sachs,” “we,” “us” and “our,” we mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. References herein to the Annual Report on Form 10-K are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007.  

 In this discussion, we have included statements that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements include statements other than historical information or statements of current condition and may relate to our future plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may also include statements about the objectives and effectiveness of our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses and statements about our investment banking transaction backlog. By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ from those indicated in these forward-looking statements include, among others, those discussed below under “— Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business” as well as “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K and “Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 47   
 Executive Overview   

 Our diluted earnings per common share were $24.73 for 2007 compared with $19.69 for 2006. During 2007, we achieved record results in the Americas, Europe and Asia, and derived over one-half of our pre-tax earnings outside of the Americas. Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity (1) was 38.2% and return on average common shareholders’ equity was 32.7% for 2007. Book value per common share increased 25% to $90.43 at year end. During 2007, we repurchased 41.2 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of $8.96 billion.  

 In 2007, we generated record diluted earnings per common share, which exceeded the prior year record results by 26%. Each of our three segments produced record net revenues. The increase in Trading and Principal Investments reflected higher net revenues in Equities, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) and Principal Investments. Net revenues in Equities increased 33% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in both our customer franchise businesses and principal strategies. During 2007, Equities operated in an environment characterized by strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity prices and higher levels of volatility, particularly during the second half of the year. The increase in FICC reflected significantly higher net revenues in currencies and interest rate products. In addition, net revenues in mortgages were higher despite a significant deterioration in the mortgage market throughout the year, while net revenues in credit products were strong, but slightly lower compared with 2006. Credit products included substantial gains from equity investments, including a gain of approximately $900 million related to the disposition of Horizon Wind Energy L.L.C., as well as a loss of approximately $1 billion, net of hedges, related to non-investment-grade credit origination activities. During 2007, FICC operated in an environment generally characterized by strong customer-driven activity and favorable market opportunities. However, during the year, the mortgage market experienced significant deterioration and, in the second half of the year, the broader credit markets were characterized by wider spreads and reduced levels of liquidity. We continued to capitalize on trading and investing opportunities for our clients and ourselves and, accordingly, our market risk increased, particularly in interest rate and equity products. In addition, our total assets surpassed $1 trillion during the year, as we grew our balance sheet in order to support these opportunities, as well as to support increased activity in Securities Services. The increase in Principal Investments reflected strong results in both corporate and real estate investing.  

 The increase in Investment Banking reflected a 64% increase in Financial Advisory net revenues and a strong performance in our Underwriting business. The increase in Financial Advisory primarily reflected growth in industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions. The increase in Underwriting reflected higher net revenues in debt underwriting, as leveraged finance activity was strong during the first half of our fiscal year, while net revenues in equity underwriting were strong but essentially unchanged from 2006. Our investment banking transaction backlog at the end of 2007 was higher than it was at the end of 2006. (2)  

 Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services also increased. The increase in Securities Services primarily reflected significant growth in global customer balances. The increase in Asset Management reflected significantly higher asset management fees, partially offset by significantly lower incentive fees. During the year, assets under management increased $192 billion, or 28%, to a record $868 billion, including net inflows of $161 billion.  

  (1)   Return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity (ROTE) is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly tangible common shareholders’ equity. See “— Results of Operations — Financial Overview” below for further information regarding our calculation of ROTE.   

  (2)   Our investment banking transaction backlog represents an estimate of our future net revenues from investment banking transactions where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely than not.    

 48   
 In 2008, we will remain focused on our clients, geographic expansion and the importance of effective risk management. We continue to see opportunities for growth in the businesses and geographic areas in which we operate and, in particular, we believe continued expansion of the economies of Brazil, Russia, India and China, as well as those of the Middle East, will offer opportunities for us to increase our presence in those markets.  

 Though we generated particularly strong results in 2007, our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. Our results in any given period can be materially affected by conditions in global financial markets and economic conditions generally. For a further discussion of the factors that may affect our future operating results, see “— Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business” below as well as “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 49   
 Business Environment   

 As an investment banking, securities and investment management firm, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence and strong business earnings. These factors provide a positive climate for our investment banking activities, for many of our trading and investing businesses and for wealth creation, which contributes to growth in our asset management business. During the first half of 2007, global economic growth was generally solid, inflation remained contained, global equity markets rose and corporate activity levels were strong. However, during the second half of 2007, significant weakness and volatility in global credit markets, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, spread to broader financial markets and began to affect global economic growth. For a further discussion of how market conditions can affect our businesses, see “— Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business” below as well as “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. A further discussion of the business environment in 2007 is set forth below.  

 Global. Growth in the global economy slowed over the course of 2007. Although the pace of economic growth was solid through the beginning of our third fiscal quarter, global growth in the latter part of our fiscal year was impacted by volatility in the credit markets, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, and accelerated weakness in the U.S. housing market. Fixed income and equity markets experienced high volatility, particularly during the second half of the year. The U.S. mortgage market experienced significant deterioration throughout the year, particularly in subprime loans and securities. The broader global credit markets were characterized by significant weakness in the second half of the year, which was evident in the significant dislocation in money market rates in the U.S. and Europe. The U.S. Federal Reserve lowered its federal funds target rate towards the end of our fiscal year, while central banks in the Eurozone, United Kingdom, Japan and China all raised rates during the year. Oil prices rose significantly during our fiscal year and, in the currency markets, the U.S. dollar weakened against most major currencies, particularly against the Euro and the British pound. Corporate activity was generally strong during our fiscal year, reflecting significant growth in mergers and acquisitions and equity underwritings, as well as strength in leveraged finance during the first half of our fiscal year.  

 United States. Real gross domestic product growth in the U.S. economy slowed to an estimated 2.2% in calendar year 2007, down from 2.9% in 2006. While economic growth was generally solid during the first nine months of our fiscal year, activity appeared to decelerate sharply during the fourth quarter. Much of the slowdown was attributable to the housing market, as sales of new and existing homes and residential real estate investment declined, as well as to the weakness in credit markets. Growth in industrial production slowed from 2006 levels, reflecting reduced growth in domestic demand, partially offset by stronger growth in net exports. Although business confidence remained fairly strong, consumer confidence declined over the course of the year. Growth in consumer expenditure was strong in the first quarter but declined thereafter, as concerns about the housing market intensified and oil prices rose. The unemployment rate rose during the second half of our fiscal year and ended the year higher. The rate of inflation increased sharply over our fiscal year, as energy prices rose significantly. Measures of core inflation, while slowing from 2006 levels, accelerated towards the end of the year. The U.S. Federal Reserve reduced its federal funds target rate by a total of 75 basis points to 4.50% during our fourth quarter, the first reductions since 2003. Beginning in August, the U.S. Federal Reserve also took other measures to improve liquidity in credit markets. Although the 10-year U.S. Treasury note yield rose during the first half of our fiscal year, it subsequently declined as credit concerns took hold, and ended the year 58 basis points lower at 3.97%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index ended our fiscal year higher by 9%, 6% and 8%, respectively.  

 50   
 Europe. Real gross domestic product growth in the Eurozone economies slowed to an estimated 2.7% in calendar year 2007, down from 2.9% in 2006. Industrial production and fixed investment slowed as the year progressed, while growth in consumer expenditure was weak throughout the year. Surveys of business and consumer confidence declined. However, the labor market strengthened, as evidenced by a decline in the unemployment rate. Measures of core inflation increased during the year. The European Central Bank (ECB) continued to raise interest rates, increasing its main refinancing operations rate by a total of 75 basis points to 4.00% by the end of June. The ECB left the rate unchanged for the rest of our fiscal year, but engaged in measures to improve liquidity conditions in the last four months of the year. In the United Kingdom, real gross domestic product rose by an estimated 3.1% for calendar year 2007, up from 2.9% in 2006, but showed signs of slowing late in the year due to credit market concerns and a slowdown in the U.K. housing market. Measures of inflation remained elevated during the year. The Bank of England increased interest rates, raising its official bank rate by a total of 75 basis points to 5.75%. Long-term bond yields in both the Eurozone and the U.K. ended the year higher. The Euro and British pound appreciated by 11% and 7%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar during our fiscal year. Major European equity markets ended our fiscal year higher.  

 Asia. In Japan, real gross domestic product growth slowed to an estimated 1.9% in calendar year 2007 from 2.4% in 2006. Measures of investment activity in the housing sector and growth in consumption declined during the year. Export growth remained solid but showed signs of deterioration towards year end as the environment outside of Japan worsened. The rate of inflation remained near zero percent during the year. The Bank of Japan raised its target overnight call rate by 25 basis points for the second consecutive year, bringing it to 0.50%, while the yield on 10-year Japanese government bonds declined slightly during our fiscal year. The yen appreciated by 4% against the U.S. dollar. The Nikkei 225 Index rose during the first eight months of our fiscal year but declined significantly in August, and ended our fiscal year essentially unchanged.  

 In China, real gross domestic product growth accelerated to an estimated 11.4% in calendar year 2007 from 11.1% in 2006, with continued strength in exports, as demonstrated by China’s large and growing current account surplus and foreign exchange reserves. Industrial production accelerated during the year, while domestic demand softened but remained solid. The rate of inflation increased, particularly during the second half of the year. The People’s Bank of China raised its one-year benchmark lending rate by a total of 117 basis points to 7.29% and took additional measures to reduce liquidity in the financial system. The government continued to allow the steady appreciation of its currency, which ended our fiscal year nearly 6% higher against the U.S. dollar. Elsewhere in Asia, real gross domestic product growth in India slowed to an estimated 8.7% in calendar year 2007 from 9.4% in 2006, as its currency strengthened and the central bank tightened monetary policy. The rate of wholesale inflation fell, but the rate of consumer price inflation remained elevated. Other currencies in the region also generally appreciated against the U.S. dollar. Equity markets rose sharply across the region, with the Shanghai Composite Index up 138%, and markets in Hong Kong, India and South Korea ending the year significantly higher.  

 Other Markets. Real gross domestic product in Brazil rose by an estimated 5.4% in calendar year 2007, supported by strong capital inflows, strong demand and rising prices in commodities, and expansionary fiscal and monetary policies. The central bank reduced interest rates even as the rate of inflation rose. In Russia, real gross domestic product rose by an estimated 7.3% in calendar year 2007, supported by strong household consumption and increased capital investment, particularly in the first half of the year. The rate of inflation rose sharply in the latter part of the year. Brazilian and Russian equity prices ended our fiscal year significantly higher.  

 51   
 Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business   

 We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. For a discussion of how management seeks to manage some of these risks, see “— Risk Management” below. A summary of the more important factors that could affect our business follows below. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect our business, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Market Conditions and Market Risk. Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, and these conditions may change suddenly and dramatically. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused by: outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors, have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability in many ways, including the following:  

    •   Increasing or high interest rates and/or widening credit spreads, especially if such changes are rapid, may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses, and may affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or hold. For example, beginning in the second half of 2007, difficulties in the mortgage and broader credit markets resulted in a relatively sudden and substantial decrease in the availability of credit and credit spreads widened significantly, affecting volatility and liquidity in the debt and equity markets.   

    •   We have been committing increasing amounts of capital in many of our businesses and generally maintain large trading, specialist and investing positions. Market fluctuations and volatility may adversely affect the value of those positions or may reduce our willingness to enter into new transactions. Conversely, certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses.   

    •   Increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, can affect our ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. We seek to finance our less liquid assets on a secured basis and disruptions in the credit markets are likely to make it harder and more expensive to fund these assets. In difficult credit markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our business activities. This could cause us to curtail our business activities and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability.   

    •   Industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and mergers and acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our revenues and, because we may be unable to reduce expenses correspondingly, our profit margins. Our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. The lack of available credit or increased cost of credit may adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients’ merger and acquisition transactions — particularly large transactions — and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses.   

    •   Reductions in the level of the equity markets or increases in interest rates tend to reduce the value of our clients’ portfolios, which in turn may reduce the fees we earn for managing assets.    

 52   
      Increases in interest rates or attractive conditions in other investments could cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products. Even in the absence of uncertain or unfavorable economic or market conditions, investment performance by our asset management business below the performance of benchmarks or competitors could result in a decline in assets under management and in the incentive and management fees we receive and might make it more difficult to attract new investors.    

    •   Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, proprietary trading and investing, block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending businesses. This risk may increase to the extent we expand our proprietary trading and investing businesses or commit capital to facilitate customer-driven business.   

    •   An increase in market volatility increases our measured risk, which might cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to reduce certain of our business activities. In such circumstances, we may not be able to reduce our positions or our exposure in a timely, cost-effective way or in a manner sufficient to offset the increase in measured risk.   

    •   The volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and as a specialist or market maker may decline, which would reduce the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. In our specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. This may result in trading losses and an increased need for liquidity. Weakness in global equity markets and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple exchanges could adversely impact our trading businesses and impair the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets.    

 Liquidity Risk. Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we are experiencing greater liquidity risk. The financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are increasingly complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. Growth of our proprietary investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity.  

 Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral. Termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. For a discussion of the potential impact on Goldman Sachs of a reduction in our credit ratings, see “— Liquidity and Funding Risk — Credit Ratings” below.  

 Credit Risk. The amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, as has the breadth and size of the entities to which we have credit exposures. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against  

 53   
 third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. While in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral for counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets.  

 In addition, as part of our clearing business, we finance our client positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee, particularly as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us.  

 We have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. In particular, corporate clients sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments.  

 Operational Risk. Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, or external events could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. These transactions, as well as information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business.  

 Legal and Regulatory Risk. We are subject to extensive and evolving regulation in jurisdictions around the world. Several of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements and, as a Consolidated Supervised Entity (CSE), we are subject to minimum capital standards on a consolidated basis. Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. For a discussion of how we account for our legal and regulatory exposures, see “— Use of Estimates” below.  

 54   
 Critical Accounting Policies   

 Fair Value  

 The use of fair value to measure financial instruments, with related unrealized gains or losses generally recognized in “Trading and principal investments” in our consolidated statements of earnings, is fundamental to our financial statements and our risk management processes and is our most critical accounting policy. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (the exit price). Instruments that we own (long positions) are marked to bid prices, and instruments that we have sold, but not yet purchased (short positions) are marked to offer prices.  

 We adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements,” as of the beginning of 2007. See Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on SFAS No. 157.  

 In determining fair value, we separate our “Financial instruments, owned at fair value” and “Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value” into two categories: cash instruments and derivative contracts, as set forth in the following table:  

 Financial Instruments by Category

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   The fair value of our Japanese yen-denominated investment in the convertible preferred stock of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG) includes the effect of foreign exchange revaluation, for which we maintain an economic currency hedge.   

  (2)   Includes interests of $4.30 billion and $3.28 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively, held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. The fair value of our investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC), which trade on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, includes the effect of foreign exchange revaluation for which we maintain an economic currency hedge.    

 55   
  (3)   The following table sets forth the principal investments (in addition to our investments in ICBC and SMFG) included within the Principal Investments component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment:    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (4)   Net of cash received pursuant to credit support agreements of $59.05 billion and $24.06 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.   

  (5)   Represents an economic hedge on the shares of common stock underlying our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG.   

  (6)   Net of cash paid pursuant to credit support agreements of $27.76 billion and $16.00 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.    

 Cash Instruments. Cash instruments include cash trading instruments, public principal investments and private principal investments.  

    •   Cash Trading Instruments. Our cash trading instruments are generally valued using quoted market prices in active markets, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. The types of instruments valued based on quoted market prices in active markets include most U.S. government and agency securities, many other sovereign government obligations, active listed equities and most money market securities.    

 The types of instruments valued based on quoted prices in markets that are not active, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency include most investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds, most mortgage products, certain corporate bank and bridge loans, less liquid listed equities, state, municipal and provincial obligations, most physical commodities and certain loan commitments.  

 Certain cash trading instruments trade infrequently and therefore have little or no price transparency. Such instruments include private equity and real estate fund investments, certain corporate bank and bridge loans, less liquid mortgage whole loans, distressed debt instruments and certain loan commitments. The transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model value at inception equals the transaction price. This valuation is adjusted only when changes to inputs and assumptions are corroborated by evidence such as transactions in similar instruments, completed or pending third-party transactions in the underlying investment or comparable entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or cash flows.  

 For positions that are not traded in active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability, and such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management’s best estimate is used.  

    •   Public Principal Investments. Our public principal investments held within the Principal Investments component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment tend to be large, concentrated holdings resulting from initial public offerings or other corporate transactions, and are valued based on quoted market prices. For positions that are not traded in active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and/or non-transferability, and such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management’s best estimate is used.    

 56   
 Our most significant public principal investment is our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC. Our investment in ICBC is valued using the quoted market prices adjusted for transfer restrictions. The ordinary shares acquired from ICBC are subject to transfer restrictions that, among other things, prohibit any sale, disposition or other transfer until April 28, 2009. From April 28, 2009 to October 20, 2009, we may transfer up to 50% of the aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that we owned as of October 20, 2006. We may transfer the remaining shares after October 20, 2009. A portion of our interest is held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.  

 We also have an investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG. This investment is valued using a model that is principally based on SMFG’s common stock price. As of November 2007, the conversion price of our SMFG convertible preferred stock into shares of SMFG common stock was ¥318,800. This price is subject to downward adjustment if the price of SMFG common stock at the time of conversion is less than the conversion price (subject to a floor of ¥105,100). As a result of downside protection on the conversion stock price, the relationship between changes in the fair value of our investment and changes in SMFG’s common stock price would be nonlinear for a significant decline in the SMFG common stock price. As of November 2007, we had hedged approximately 90% of the common stock underlying our investment in SMFG and there were no restrictions on our ability to hedge the remainder.  

    •   Private Principal Investments. Our private principal investments held within the Principal Investments component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment include investments in private equity, debt and real estate, primarily held through investment funds. By their nature, these investments have little or no price transparency. We value such instruments initially at transaction price and adjust valuations when evidence is available to support such adjustments. Such evidence includes transactions in similar instruments, completed or pending third-party transactions in the underlying investment or comparable entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or cash flows.    

 Derivative Contracts. Derivative contracts can be exchange-traded or over-the-counter (OTC). We generally value exchange-traded derivatives within portfolios using models which calibrate to market clearing levels and eliminate timing differences between the closing price of the exchange-traded derivatives and their underlying cash instruments.  

 OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other market evidence whenever possible, including market-based inputs to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions, broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Where models are used, the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative depends upon the contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent in, the instrument as well as the availability of pricing information in the market. We generally use similar models to value similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be verified and model selection does not involve significant management judgment.  

 Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. Where we do not have corroborating market evidence to support significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market transactions, transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model value at inception equals the transaction price. Subsequent to initial recognition, we only update valuation inputs when corroborated by evidence such as similar market transactions, third-party  

 57   
 pricing services and/or broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. In circumstances where we cannot verify the model value to market transactions, it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value. See “— Credit Risk — Derivatives” below for further information on our OTC derivatives.  

 When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, management’s best estimate is used.  

 Fair Value Hierarchy — Level 3 Assets. SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The objective of a fair value measurement is to determine the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. See Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding SFAS No. 157.  

 58   
 The following table sets forth the fair values of assets classified as level 3 within the fair value hierarchy, along with a brief description of the valuation technique for each type of asset:  

 Level 3 Assets at Fair Value

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Includes $7.06 billion of assets for which we do not bear economic exposure. Also includes $2.02 billion of real estate fund investments.   

  (2)   Includes mezzanine financing, leveraged loans arising from capital market transactions and other corporate bank debt.   

  (3)   Includes $2.49 billion of collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by corporate obligations.   

  (4)   Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate were $19.02 billion, of which $7.41 billion were classified as level 3.   

  (5)   Includes subprime mortgage exposure of $507 million, including $316 million of CDOs backed by subprime mortgages.   

  (6)   Consists of acquired portfolios of distressed loans. These loans are primarily backed by commercial and residential real estate collateral.   

  (7)   We do not bear economic exposure to these level 3 assets as they are financed by nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority investors or attributable to employee interests in certain consolidated funds.    

 59   
 Subprime mortgage exposure. We securitize, underwrite and make markets in subprime mortgages. As of November 2007, the fair value of our long position in subprime mortgage cash instruments was $2.11 billion (of which $507 million was classified as level 3 within the fair value hierarchy), including $316 million of collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by subprime mortgages. At any point in time, we may use cash instruments as well as derivatives to manage our long or short risk position in the subprime mortgage market.  

 Other Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. In addition to “Financial instruments owned, at fair value” and “Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value,” we have elected to account for certain of our other financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value under SFAS No. 155, “Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments — an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140,” or SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.” Such financial assets and financial liabilities include (i) certain unsecured short-term borrowings, consisting of all promissory notes and commercial paper and certain hybrid financial instruments; (ii) certain other secured financings, primarily transfers accounted for as financings rather than sales under SFAS No. 140 and debt raised through our William Street program; (iii) certain unsecured long-term borrowings, including prepaid physical commodity transactions; (iv) resale and repurchase agreements; (v) securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal Investments, consisting of our matched book and certain firm financing activities; (vi) corporate loans, loan commitments and certificates of deposit issued by Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA) as well as securities held by GS Bank USA (previously accounted for as available-for-sale); (vii) receivables from customers and counterparties arising from transfers accounted for as secured loans rather than purchases under SFAS No. 140; and (viii) in general, investments acquired after the adoption of SFAS No. 159 where we have significant influence over the investee and would otherwise apply the equity method of accounting. See “— Recent Accounting Developments” below for a discussion of the impact of adopting SFAS No. 159.  

 Controls Over Valuation of Financial Instruments. A control infrastructure, independent of the trading and investing functions, is fundamental to ensuring that our financial instruments are appropriately valued and that fair value measurements are reliable. This is particularly important where prices or valuations that require inputs are less observable.  

 We employ an oversight structure that includes appropriate segregation of duties. Senior management, independent of the trading and investing functions, is responsible for the oversight of control and valuation policies and for reporting the results of these policies to our Audit Committee. We seek to maintain the necessary resources to ensure that control functions are performed to the highest standards. We employ procedures for the approval of new transaction types and markets, price verification, review of daily profit and loss, and review of valuation models by personnel with appropriate technical knowledge of relevant products and markets. These procedures are performed by personnel independent of the trading and investing functions. For trading and principal investments where prices or valuations that require inputs are less observable, we employ, where possible, procedures that include comparisons with similar observable positions, analysis of actual to projected cash flows, comparisons with subsequent sales and discussions with senior business leaders. See “— Market Risk” below for a further discussion of how we manage the risks inherent in our trading and principal investing businesses.  

 60   
 Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets   

 As a result of our acquisitions, principally SLK LLC (SLK) in 2000, The Ayco Company, L.P. (Ayco) in 2003 and our variable annuity and life insurance business in 2006, we have acquired goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair value of net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, at the acquisition date.  

 Goodwill. We test the goodwill in each of our operating segments, which are components one level below our three business segments, for impairment at least annually in accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” by comparing the estimated fair value of each operating segment with its estimated net book value. We derive the fair value of each of our operating segments primarily based on price-earnings and price-book multiples. We derive the net book value of our operating segments by estimating the amount of shareholders’ equity required to support the activities of each operating segment. Our last annual impairment test was performed during our 2007 fourth quarter and no impairment was identified.  

 The following table sets forth the carrying value of our goodwill by operating segment:  

 Goodwill by Operating Segment

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Primarily related to SLK.   

  (2)   Primarily related to Ayco. The increase in goodwill from November 2006 relates to our acquisition of Macquarie — IMM Investment Management.    

 Identifiable Intangible Assets. We amortize our identifiable intangible assets over their estimated useful lives in accordance with SFAS No. 142, and test for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an asset’s or asset group’s carrying value may not be fully recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” An impairment loss, calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying value.  

 61   
 The following table sets forth the carrying value and range of remaining useful lives of our identifiable intangible assets by major asset class:  

 Identifiable Intangible Assets by Asset Class

 ($ in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Primarily includes our clearance and execution and NASDAQ customer lists related to SLK and financial counseling customer lists related to Ayco.   

  (2)   Consists of the value of business acquired (VOBA) and deferred acquisition costs (DAC). VOBA represents the present value of estimated future gross profits of the variable annuity and life insurance business. DAC results from commissions paid by Goldman Sachs to the primary insurer (ceding company) on life and annuity reinsurance agreements as compensation to place the business with us and to cover the ceding company’s acquisition expenses. VOBA and DAC are amortized over the estimated life of the underlying contracts based on estimated gross profits, and amortization is adjusted based on actual experience. The seven-year useful life represents the weighted average remaining amortization period of the underlying contracts (certain of which extend for approximately 30 years).   

  (3)   The reduction in power contracts from November 2006 is due to the sale of the majority of our ownership interests in 14 power generation facilities during 2007.   

  (4)   Primarily includes marketing and technology-related assets.    

 A prolonged period of weakness in global equity markets and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple exchanges could adversely impact our businesses and impair the value of our goodwill and/or identifiable intangible assets. In addition, certain events could indicate a potential impairment of our identifiable intangible assets, including (i) changes in market structure that could adversely affect our specialist businesses (see discussion below), (ii) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, or (iii) adverse actual experience on the contracts in our variable annuity and life insurance business.  

 During the fourth quarter of 2007, as a result of continuing weak operating results in our NYSE specialist business, we tested our NYSE specialist rights for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.” Under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of our NYSE specialist rights exceeds the projected undiscounted cash flows of the business over the estimated remaining useful life of our NYSE specialist rights. Projected undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying amount of our NYSE specialist rights, and accordingly, we did not record an impairment loss.  

 62   
 We expect that the NYSE will enact numerous rule changes in 2008 that will further align its model with investor requirements for speed and efficiency of execution and will establish specialists as Designated Market Makers (DMMs). As DMMs, specialists will retain their obligation to commit capital but for the first time, specialists will be able to trade on parity with other market participants. In addition, we understand that the NYSE plans to introduce a reserve order system that will allow for anonymous trade execution and is expected to increase liquidity and market share. The new rules are expected to bolster the NYSE’s competitive position by simplifying trading and advancing the NYSE’s goal of increasing execution speeds.  

 In projecting the undiscounted cash flows of the business for the purpose of performing our impairment test, we made several important assumptions about the potential beneficial effects of the expected rule and market structure changes described above. Specifically, we assumed that:  

    •   overall equity trading volumes will continue to grow at a rate consistent with recent historical trends;   

    •   the NYSE will be able to recapture approximately one-half of the market share that it lost in 2007; and   

    •   we will increase the market share of our NYSE specialist business and, as a DMM, the profitability of each share traded.    

 There can be no assurance that the assumptions, rule or structure changes described above will result in sufficient cash flows to avoid future impairment of our NYSE specialist rights. As of November 30, 2007, the carrying value of our NYSE specialist rights was $502 million. To the extent that there were to be an impairment in the future, it could result in a significant writedown in the carrying value of these specialist rights.   

 Use of Estimates   

 The use of generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. In addition to the estimates we make in connection with fair value measurements and the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, the use of estimates and assumptions is also important in determining provisions for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits.  

 We estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out of litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated, in accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies.” Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be materially different. Our total estimated liability in respect of litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a case-by-case basis and represents an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in similar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of our litigation and regulatory matters, particularly in cases or proceedings in which substantial or indeterminate damages or fines are sought, we cannot estimate losses or ranges of losses for cases or proceedings where there is only a reasonable possibility that a loss may be incurred. See “— Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, for information on our judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings.  

 63   
 Results of Operations   

 The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed. The composition of net revenues can also vary over the shorter term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global economic and market conditions. See “— Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business” above, and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

 Financial Overview   

 The following table sets forth an overview of our financial results:  

 Financial Overview  

 ($ in millions, except per share amounts)  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

    (1)   Return on average common shareholders’ equity is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly common shareholders’ equity.   

    (2)   Tangible common shareholders’ equity equals total shareholders’ equity less preferred stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. Identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts are not deducted from total shareholders’ equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common shareholders’ equity.    

 Management believes that return on average tangible common shareholders’ equity (ROTE) is meaningful because it measures the performance of businesses consistently, whether they were acquired or developed internally. ROTE is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly tangible common shareholders’ equity.  

 The following table sets forth a reconciliation of average total shareholders’ equity to average tangible common shareholders’ equity:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 64   
 Net Revenues  

 2007 versus 2006. Our net revenues were $45.99 billion in 2007, an increase of 22% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments and Investment Banking, and higher net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services. The increase in Trading and Principal Investments reflected higher net revenues in Equities, FICC and Principal Investments. Net revenues in Equities increased 33% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in both our customer franchise businesses and principal strategies. During 2007, Equities operated in an environment characterized by strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity prices and higher levels of volatility, particularly during the second half of the year. The increase in FICC reflected significantly higher net revenues in currencies and interest rate products. In addition, net revenues in mortgages were higher despite a significant deterioration in the mortgage market throughout the year, while net revenues in credit products were strong, but slightly lower compared with 2006. Credit products included substantial gains from equity investments, including a gain of approximately $900 million related to the disposition of Horizon Wind Energy L.L.C., as well as a loss of approximately $1 billion, net of hedges, related to non-investment-grade credit origination activities. During 2007, FICC operated in an environment generally characterized by strong customer-driven activity and favorable market opportunities. However, during the year, the mortgage market experienced significant deterioration and, in the second half of the year, the broader credit markets were characterized by wider spreads and reduced levels of liquidity. The increase in Principal Investments reflected strong results in both corporate and real estate investing.  

 The increase in Investment Banking reflected a 64% increase in Financial Advisory net revenues and a strong performance in our Underwriting business. The increase in Financial Advisory primarily reflected growth in industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions. The increase in Underwriting reflected higher net revenues in debt underwriting, as leveraged finance activity was strong during the first half of our fiscal year, while net revenues in equity underwriting were strong but essentially unchanged from 2006.  

 Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services also increased. The increase in Securities Services primarily reflected significant growth in global customer balances. The increase in Asset Management reflected significantly higher asset management fees, partially offset by significantly lower incentive fees. During the year, assets under management increased $192 billion, or 28%, to a record $868 billion, including net inflows of $161 billion.  

 2006 versus 2005. Our net revenues were $37.67 billion in 2006, an increase of 49% compared with 2005, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments, Investment Banking, and Asset Management and Securities Services. The increase in Trading and Principal Investments reflected significantly higher net revenues in FICC, Equities and Principal Investments. The increase in FICC reflected particularly strong performances across all major businesses. During 2006, FICC operated in an environment characterized by strong customer-driven activity and favorable market opportunities. In addition, corporate credit spreads tightened, the yield curve flattened and volatility levels were generally low in interest rate and currency markets. The increase in Equities primarily reflected significantly higher net revenues in our customer franchise businesses. During 2006, Equities operated in a favorable environment characterized by strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity prices and favorable market opportunities, although volatility levels were generally low. The increase in Principal Investments reflected a significant gain related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC and higher gains and overrides from other principal investments, partially offset by a smaller, but still significant, gain related to our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG.  

 The increase in Investment Banking was due to significantly higher net revenues in Underwriting and Financial Advisory, as we benefited from strong client activity levels, reflecting favorable equity and financing markets, strong CEO confidence and growth in financial sponsor activity.  

 65   
 The increase in Asset Management and Securities Services was primarily due to higher assets under management and significantly higher incentive fees, as well as significantly higher global customer balances in Securities Services. Assets under management increased $144 billion or 27% to a record $676 billion, including net asset inflows of $94 billion during 2006.  

 Operating Expenses  

 Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by compensation, headcount and levels of business activity. A substantial portion of our compensation expense represents discretionary bonuses which are significantly impacted by, among other factors, the level of net revenues, prevailing labor markets, business mix and the structure of our share-based compensation programs. For 2007, our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues was 43.9% compared with 43.7% for 2006.  

 The following table sets forth our operating expenses and number of employees:  

 Operating Expenses and Employees

 ($ in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Compensation and benefits includes $168 million, $259 million and $137 million for the years ended November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, attributable to consolidated entities held for investment purposes. Consolidated entities held for investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our principal businesses.   

  (2)   Excludes 4,572, 3,868 and 7,382 employees as of November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, of consolidated entities held for investment purposes (see footnote 1 above).    

 66   
 The following table sets forth non-compensation expenses of consolidated entities held for investment purposes and our remaining non-compensation expenses by line item:  

 Non-Compensation Expenses

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

    (1)   Consolidated entities held for investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our principal businesses. For example, these investments include consolidated entities that hold real estate assets, such as hotels, but exclude investments in entities that primarily hold financial assets. We believe that it is meaningful to review non-compensation expenses excluding expenses related to these consolidated entities in order to evaluate trends in non-compensation expenses related to our principal business activities. Revenues related to such entities are included in “Trading and principal investments” in the consolidated statements of earnings.    

 2007 versus 2006. Operating expenses were $28.38 billion for 2007, 23% higher than 2006. Compensation and benefits expenses of $20.19 billion increased 23% compared with 2006, reflecting increased discretionary compensation and growth in employment levels. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2007 was 43.9% compared with 43.7% for 2006. Employment levels increased 15% compared with November 2006.  

 Non-compensation expenses of $8.19 billion for 2007 increased 23% compared with 2006, primarily attributable to higher levels of business activity and continued geographic expansion. One-half of this increase was attributable to brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, principally reflecting higher transaction volumes in Equities. Other expenses, professional fees and communications and technology expenses also increased, primarily due to higher levels of business activity. Occupancy and depreciation and amortization expenses included exit costs of $128 million related to the firm’s office space.  

 2006 versus 2005. Operating expenses were $23.11 billion for 2006, 36% higher than 2005. Compensation and benefits expenses of $16.46 billion increased 40% compared with 2005, primarily reflecting increased discretionary compensation due to higher net revenues, and increased levels of employment. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2006 was 43.7% compared with 46.6% for 2005. This lower ratio primarily reflected our strong net revenues in 2006. Employment levels increased 12% compared with November 2005.  

 67   
 In the first quarter of 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123-R, which requires that share-based awards granted to retirement-eligible employees be expensed in the year of grant. In addition to expensing current year awards, prior year awards must continue to be amortized over the relevant service period. Therefore, our compensation and benefits in 2006 included both amortization of prior year share-based awards held by employees that were retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123-R and new awards granted to those employees.  

 Compensation and benefits expenses in 2006 included $637 million in continued amortization of prior year awards held by employees that were retirement-eligible on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123-R. This amount represents the majority of the expense to be recognized with respect to these awards.  

 Non-compensation expenses of $6.65 billion for 2006 increased 28% compared with 2005. Excluding non-compensation expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes, non-compensation expenses were 24% higher than 2005, primarily due to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees in Equities and FICC, and increased other expenses, primarily due to costs related to our insurance business, which was acquired in 2006. In addition, market development costs and professional fees were higher, reflecting increased levels of business activity, and occupancy expenses increased, primarily reflecting new office space and higher facility expenses.  

 Provision for Taxes  

 The effective income tax rate was 34.1% for 2007, down from 34.5% for 2006, primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of earnings. The effective income tax rate was 34.5% for 2006, up from 32.0% for 2005. The increase in the effective income tax rate for 2006 compared with 2005 was primarily related to a reduction in the impact of permanent benefits due to higher levels of earnings in 2006 and audit settlements in 2005.  

 Our effective income tax rate can vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of our earnings, the level of our pre-tax earnings, the level of our tax credits and the effect of tax audits. Certain of these and other factors, including our history of pre-tax earnings, are taken into account in assessing our ability to realize our net deferred tax assets. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our provision for taxes.  

 68   
 Segment Operating Results   

 The following table sets forth the net revenues, operating expenses and pre-tax earnings of our segments:  

 Segment Operating Results

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Operating expenses include net provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings of $37 million, $45 million and $37 million for the years ended November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, that have not been allocated to our segments.    

 Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest income and interest expense to specific securities, commodities and other positions in relation to the cash generated by, or funding requirements of, such underlying positions. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our business segments.  

 The cost drivers of Goldman Sachs taken as a whole — compensation, headcount and levels of business activity — are broadly similar in each of our business segments. Compensation and benefits expenses within our segments reflect, among other factors, the overall performance of Goldman Sachs as well as the performance of individual business units. Consequently, pre-tax margins in one segment of our business may be significantly affected by the performance of our other business segments. A discussion of segment operating results follows.  

 69   
 Investment Banking  

 Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following table sets forth the operating results of our Investment Banking segment:  

 Investment Banking Operating Results

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 The following table sets forth our financial advisory and underwriting transaction volumes:  

 Goldman Sachs Global Investment Banking Volumes (1)

 (in billions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Source: Thomson Financial. Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity-related offerings and debt offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period.   

  (2)   Includes Rule 144A and public common stock offerings, convertible offerings and rights offerings.   

  (3)   Includes non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt. Includes publicly registered and Rule 144A issues.    

 70   
 2007 versus 2006. Net revenues in Investment Banking of $7.56 billion for 2007 increased 34% compared with 2006. Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $4.22 billion increased 64% compared with 2006, primarily reflecting growth in industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our Underwriting business of $3.33 billion increased 9% compared with 2006, due to higher net revenues in debt underwriting, primarily reflecting strength in leveraged finance during the first half of 2007. Net revenues in equity underwriting were also strong, but essentially unchanged from 2006. Our investment banking transaction backlog at the end of 2007 was higher than at the end of 2006. (1)  

 Operating expenses of $4.99 billion for 2007 increased 23% compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses resulting from higher discretionary compensation and growth in employment levels. Pre-tax earnings of $2.57 billion in 2007 increased 64% compared with 2006.  

 2006 versus 2005. Net revenues in Investment Banking of $5.63 billion for 2006 increased 53% compared with 2005. Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $2.58 billion increased 35% compared with 2005, primarily reflecting strong growth in industry-wide completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our Underwriting business of $3.05 billion increased 73% compared with 2005. Net revenues were significantly higher in equity underwriting, reflecting increased client activity. Net revenues were also significantly higher in debt underwriting, primarily due to a significant increase in leveraged finance activity and, to a lesser extent, an increase in investment-grade activity. Our investment banking transaction backlog at the end of 2006 was at its highest level since 2000. (1)  

 Operating expenses of $4.06 billion for 2006 increased 25% compared with 2005, substantially all of which was due to increased compensation and benefits expenses resulting from higher levels of discretionary compensation. Pre-tax earnings were $1.57 billion in 2006 compared with $413 million in 2005.  

 Trading and Principal Investments  

 Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into three components:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Substantially all of our inventory is marked-to-market daily and, therefore, its value and our net revenues are subject to fluctuations based on market movements. In addition, net revenues derived from our principal investments in privately held concerns and in real estate may fluctuate significantly depending on the revaluation of these investments in any given period. We also regularly enter into large transactions as part of our trading businesses. The number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period.  

 Net revenues from Principal Investments do not include management fees generated from our merchant banking funds. These management fees are included in the net revenues of the Asset Management and Securities Services segment.  

 (1) Our investment banking transaction backlog represents an estimate of our future net revenues from investment banking transactions where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely than not.  

 71   
 The following table sets forth the operating results of our Trading and Principal Investments segment:  

 Trading and Principal Investments Operating Results

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 2007 versus 2006. Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments of $31.23 billion for 2007 increased 22% compared with 2006.  

 Net revenues in FICC of $16.17 billion for 2007 increased 13% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in currencies and interest rate products. In addition, net revenues in mortgages were higher despite a significant deterioration in the mortgage market throughout 2007, while net revenues in credit products were strong, but slightly lower compared with 2006. Credit products included substantial gains from equity investments, including a gain of approximately $900 million related to the disposition of Horizon Wind Energy L.L.C., as well as a loss of approximately $1 billion, net of hedges, related to non-investment-grade credit origination activities. Net revenues in commodities were also strong but lower compared with 2006. During 2007, FICC operated in an environment generally characterized by strong customer-driven activity and favorable market opportunities. However, during 2007, the mortgage market experienced significant deterioration and, in the second half of the year, the broader credit markets were characterized by wider spreads and reduced levels of liquidity.  

 Net revenues in Equities of $11.30 billion for 2007 increased 33% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in both our customer franchise businesses and principal strategies. The customer franchise businesses benefited from significantly higher commission volumes. During 2007, Equities operated in an environment characterized by strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity prices and higher levels of volatility, particularly during the second half of the year.  

 Principal Investments recorded net revenues of $3.76 billion for 2007, reflecting gains and overrides from corporate and real estate principal investments. Results in Principal Investments included a $495 million gain related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC and a $129 million loss related to our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG.  

 72   
 Operating expenses of $18.00 billion for 2007 increased 20% compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from higher discretionary compensation and growth in employment levels. Non-compensation expenses increased due to the impact of higher levels of business activity and continued geographic expansion. The majority of this increase was in brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, which primarily reflected higher transaction volumes in Equities. Other expenses and professional fees also increased, reflecting increased business activity. Pre-tax earnings of $13.23 billion in 2007 increased 25% compared with 2006.  

 2006 versus 2005. Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments of $25.56 billion for 2006 increased 52% compared with 2005.  

 Net revenues in FICC of $14.26 billion increased 60% compared with 2005, primarily due to significantly higher net revenues in credit products (which includes distressed investing) and commodities. In addition, net revenues were higher in interest rate products, currencies and mortgages. During 2006, the business operated in an environment characterized by strong customer-driven activity and favorable market opportunities. In addition, corporate credit spreads tightened, the yield curve flattened and volatility levels were generally low in interest rate and currency markets.  

 Net revenues in Equities of $8.48 billion increased 50% compared with 2005, primarily reflecting significantly higher net revenues in derivatives, across all regions, as well as higher net revenues in shares. The increase also reflected the contribution from our insurance business, which was acquired in 2006. In addition, principal strategies performed well, although net revenues were lower than a particularly strong 2005. During 2006, Equities operated in a favorable environment characterized by strong customer-driven activity, generally higher equity prices and favorable market opportunities, although volatility levels were generally low.  

 Principal Investments recorded net revenues of $2.82 billion for 2006, reflecting a $937 million gain related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a $527 million gain related to our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG and $1.35 billion in gains and overrides from other principal investments.  

 Operating expenses of $14.96 billion for 2006 increased 41% compared with 2005, due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, primarily resulting from higher levels of discretionary compensation due to higher net revenues and increased levels of employment, as well as higher non-compensation expenses. Excluding non-compensation expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes, the increase in non-compensation expenses was primarily due to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, in Equities and FICC, and increased other expenses, primarily due to costs related to our insurance business, which was acquired in 2006, and higher levels of business activity. In addition, professional fees were higher, due to increased legal and consulting fees. Pre-tax earnings of $10.60 billion in 2006 increased 70% compared with 2005.  

 Asset Management and Securities Services  

 Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided into two components:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 73   
 Assets under management typically generate fees as a percentage of asset value, which is affected by investment performance and by inflows or redemptions. The fees that we charge vary by asset class, as do our related expenses. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s return or when the return on assets under management exceeds specified benchmark returns or other performance targets. Incentive fees are recognized when the performance period ends and they are no longer subject to adjustment. We have numerous incentive fee arrangements, many of which have annual performance periods that end on December 31. For that reason, incentive fees have been seasonally weighted to our first quarter.  

 The following table sets forth the operating results of our Asset Management and Securities Services segment:  

 Asset Management and Securities Services Operating Results

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Assets under management include our mutual funds, alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and individual investors. Substantially all assets under management are valued as of calendar month end. Assets under management do not include assets in brokerage accounts that generate commissions, mark-ups and spreads based on transactional activity, or our own investments in funds that we manage.  

 The following table sets forth our assets under management by asset class:  

 Assets Under Management by Asset Class

 (in billions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Primarily includes hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies.    

 74   
 The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in our assets under management:  

 Changes in Assets Under Management

 (in billions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Includes $7 billion in net asset inflows in connection with our acquisition of Macquarie — IMM Investment Management.   

  (2)   Net of the transfer of $8 billion of money market assets under management to interest-bearing deposits at GS Bank USA, a wholly owned subsidiary of Goldman Sachs. These deposits are not included in assets under management.   

  (3)   Includes $3 billion of net asset inflows in connection with the acquisition of our variable annuity and life insurance business.    

 2007 versus 2006. Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services of $7.21 billion for 2007 increased 11% compared with 2006.  

 Asset Management net revenues of $4.49 billion for 2007 increased 5% compared with 2006, reflecting a 29% increase in management and other fees, partially offset by significantly lower incentive fees. Incentive fees were $187 million for 2007 compared with $962 million for 2006. During 2007, assets under management increased $192 billion, or 28%, to $868 billion, reflecting non-money market net inflows of $73 billion (1), primarily in fixed income and equity assets, money market net inflows of $88 billion, and net market appreciation of $31 billion, reflecting appreciation in fixed income and equity assets, partially offset by depreciation in alternative investment assets.  

 Securities Services net revenues of $2.72 billion for 2007 increased 25% compared with 2006, as our prime brokerage business continued to generate strong results, primarily reflecting significantly higher customer balances in securities lending and margin lending.  

 Operating expenses of $5.36 billion for 2007 increased 33% compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses resulting from higher discretionary compensation and growth in employment levels, and higher distribution fees (included in brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees). Pre-tax earnings of $1.84 billion in 2007 decreased 24% compared with 2006.  

 (1) Includes $7 billion in net asset inflows in connection with our acquisition of Macquarie — IMM Investment Management.  

 75   
 2006 versus 2005. Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services of $6.47 billion for 2006 increased 36% compared with 2005.  

 Asset Management net revenues of $4.29 billion increased 45% compared with 2005, reflecting significantly higher management and other fees, principally due to strong growth in assets under management, and significantly higher incentive fees. During the year, assets under management increased $144 billion or 27% to $676 billion, reflecting non-money market net inflows of $77 billion, spread across all asset classes, money market net inflows of $17 billion (1), and market appreciation of $50 billion, primarily in equity and fixed income assets.  

 Securities Services net revenues of $2.18 billion increased 22% compared with 2005, as our prime brokerage business continued to generate strong results, primarily reflecting significantly higher global customer balances in securities lending and margin lending.  

 Operating expenses of $4.04 billion for 2006 increased 31% compared with 2005, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from higher levels of discretionary compensation due to higher net revenues, and increased levels of employment. Non-compensation expenses also increased, primarily due to higher distribution fees. In addition, market development costs were higher, reflecting increased levels of business activity. Pre-tax earnings of $2.44 billion in 2006 increased 45% compared with 2005.   

 Geographic Data   

 For a summary of the net revenues and pre-tax earnings of Goldman Sachs by geographic region, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 (1) Includes the transfer of $8 billion of money market assets under management to interest-bearing deposits at GS Bank USA. These deposits are not included in assets under management.  

 76   
 Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements   

 We have various types of off-balance-sheet arrangements that we enter into in the ordinary course of business. Our involvement in these arrangements can take many different forms, including purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securitization vehicles; holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and general partnerships, and preferred and common stock in other nonconsolidated vehicles; entering into interest rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and credit derivatives, including total return swaps; entering into operating leases; and providing guarantees, indemnifications, loan commitments, letters of credit and representations and warranties.  

 We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business purposes, including the securitization of commercial and residential mortgages, home equity and auto loans, government and corporate bonds, and other types of financial assets. Other reasons for entering into these arrangements include underwriting client securitization transactions; providing secondary market liquidity; making investments in performing and nonperforming debt, equity, real estate and other assets; providing investors with credit-linked and asset-repackaged notes; and receiving or providing letters of credit to satisfy margin requirements and to facilitate the clearance and settlement process.  

 We engage in transactions with variable interest entities (VIEs) and qualifying special-purpose entities (QSPEs). Such vehicles are critical to the functioning of several significant investor markets, including the mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities markets, since they offer investors access to specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization process. Our financial interests in, and derivative transactions with, such nonconsolidated entities are accounted for at fair value, in the same manner as our other financial instruments, except in cases where we apply the equity method of accounting.  

 While we are routinely involved with VIEs and QSPEs in connection with our securitization activities, we did not have off-balance-sheet commitments to purchase or finance collateralized debt obligations held by structured investment vehicles as of November 2007.  

 The following table sets forth where a discussion of these and other off-balance-sheet arrangements may be found in Part II, Items 7 and 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K:  

  Type of Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangement     Disclosure in Annual Report on Form 10-K   

  Retained interests or contingent interests in assets transferred by us to nonconsolidated entities     See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

  Leases, letters of credit, and loans and other commitments     See “— Contractual Obligations and Commitments” below and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

  Guarantees     See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

  Other obligations, including contingent obligations, arising out of variable interests we have in nonconsolidated entities     See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

  Derivative contracts     See “— Critical Accounting Policies” above and  “— Risk Management” below and Notes 3 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

 In addition, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of our consolidation policies.  

 77   
 Equity Capital   

 The level and composition of our equity capital are principally determined by our consolidated regulatory capital requirements but may also be influenced by rating agency guidelines, subsidiary capital requirements, the business environment, conditions in the financial markets and assessments of potential future losses due to extreme and adverse changes in our business and market environments. As of November 2007, our total shareholders’ equity was $42.80 billion (consisting of common shareholders’ equity of $39.70 billion and preferred stock of $3.10 billion) compared with total shareholders’ equity of $35.79 billion as of November 2006 (consisting of common shareholders’ equity of $32.69 billion and preferred stock of $3.10 billion). In addition to total shareholders’ equity, we consider the $5.00 billion of junior subordinated debt issued to trusts (see discussion below) to be part of our equity capital, as it qualifies as capital for regulatory and certain rating agency purposes.  

 Consolidated Regulatory Capital Requirements  

 Goldman Sachs is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a CSE and, as such, is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital adequacy standards on a consolidated basis. Minimum capital adequacy standards are principally driven by the amount of our market risk, credit risk and operational risk as calculated by methodologies approved by the SEC. Eligible sources of regulatory capital include common equity and certain types of preferred stock, debt and hybrid capital instruments, including our junior subordinated debt issued to trusts. The recognition of preferred stock, debt and hybrid capital instruments as regulatory capital is subject to limitations. Goldman Sachs was in compliance with the CSE capital adequacy standards as of November 2007 and November 2006.  

 Rating Agency Guidelines  

 The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the obligations of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., which directly issues or guarantees substantially all of Goldman Sachs’ senior unsecured obligations. The level and composition of our equity capital are among the many factors considered in determining our credit ratings. Each agency has its own definition of eligible capital and methodology for evaluating capital adequacy, and assessments are generally based on a combination of factors rather than a single calculation. See “— Liquidity and Funding Risk — Credit Ratings” below for further information regarding our credit ratings.  

 Subsidiary Capital Requirements  

 Many of our principal subsidiaries are subject to separate regulation and capital requirements in the United States and/or elsewhere. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P. are registered U.S. broker-dealers and futures commissions merchants, and are subject to regulatory capital requirements, including those imposed by the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Chicago Board of Trade, The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and the National Futures Association. Goldman Sachs International, our regulated U.K. broker-dealer, is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority. Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd., our regulated Japanese broker-dealer, is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by Japan’s Financial Services Agency. Several other subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs are regulated by securities, investment advisory, banking, insurance, and other regulators and authorities around the world. As of November 2007 and November 2006, these subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital requirements.  

 78   
 As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency requirements (for entities with assigned credit ratings) or internal policies, including policies concerning the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based on its underlying level of risk. See “— Liquidity and Funding Risk — Conservative Liability Structure” below for a discussion of our potential inability to access funds from our subsidiaries.  

 Equity investments in subsidiaries are generally funded with parent company equity capital. As of November 2007, Group Inc.’s equity investment in subsidiaries was $40.00 billion compared with its total shareholders’ equity of $42.80 billion.  

 Our capital invested in non-U.S. subsidiaries is generally exposed to foreign exchange risk, substantially all of which is managed through a combination of derivative contracts and non-U.S. denominated debt. In addition, we generally manage the non-trading exposure to foreign exchange risk that arises from transactions denominated in currencies other than the transacting entity’s functional currency.  

 See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our regulated subsidiaries.  

 Equity Capital Management  

 Our objective is to maintain a sufficient level and optimal composition of equity capital. We manage our capital through repurchases of our common stock and issuances of preferred stock, junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and other subordinated debt. We manage our capital requirements principally by setting limits on balance sheet assets and/or limits on risk, in each case at both the consolidated and business unit levels. We attribute capital usage to each of our business units based upon the CSE regulatory capital framework and manage the levels of usage based upon the balance sheet and risk limits established.  

 Share Repurchase Program. We use our share repurchase program to help maintain the appropriate level of common equity and to substantially offset increases in share count over time resulting from employee share-based compensation. The repurchase program is effected primarily through regular open-market purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined primarily by our current and projected capital positions (i.e., comparisons of our desired level of capital to our actual level of capital) but which may also be influenced by general market conditions and the prevailing price and trading volumes of our common stock.  

 The following table sets forth the level of share repurchases for the years ended November 2007 and November 2006:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 The repurchase program was increased by 60.0 million shares on December 17, 2007. Taking into account this increased authorization, the total remaining authorization under the repurchase program was 65.4 million shares as of January 18, 2008. For additional information on our repurchase program, see “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Part ll, Item 5 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 79   
 Preferred Stock. As of November 2007, Goldman Sachs had 124,000 shares of perpetual non-cumulative preferred stock issued and outstanding in four series as set forth in the following table:  

 Preferred Stock by Series  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Each share of preferred stock issued and outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation preference of $25,000, is represented by 1,000 depositary shares and is redeemable at our option at a redemption price equal to $25,000 plus declared and unpaid dividends. Dividends on each series of preferred stock, if declared, are payable quarterly in arrears. Our ability to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, our common stock is subject to certain restrictions in the event that we fail to pay or set aside full dividends on our preferred stock for the latest completed dividend period. All series of preferred stock are pari passu and have a preference over our common stock upon liquidation.  

 Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to Trusts in Connection with Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities. In the second quarter of 2007, we issued $1.75 billion of fixed rate junior subordinated debt to Goldman Sachs Capital II and $500 million of floating rate junior subordinated debt to Goldman Sachs Capital III, Delaware statutory trusts that, in turn, issued $2.25 billion of guaranteed perpetual Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities (APEX) to third parties and a de minimis amount of common securities to Goldman Sachs. The junior subordinated debt is included in “Unsecured long-term borrowings” in the consolidated statements of financial condition. In connection with the APEX issuance, we entered into stock purchase contracts with Goldman Sachs Capital II and III under which we will be obligated to sell and these entities will be obligated to purchase $2.25 billion of perpetual non-cumulative preferred stock that we will issue in the future. Goldman Sachs Capital II and III are required to remarket the junior subordinated debt in order to fund their purchase of the preferred stock, but in the event that a remarketing is unsuccessful, they will relinquish the subordinated debt to us in exchange for the preferred stock. Because of certain characteristics of the junior subordinated debt (and the associated APEX), including its long-term nature, the future issuance of perpetual non-cumulative preferred stock under the stock purchase contracts, our ability to defer payments due on the debt and the subordinated nature of the debt in our capital structure, it qualifies as regulatory capital for CSE purposes and is included as part of our equity capital.  

 Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to a Trust in Connection with Trust Preferred Securities. We issued $2.84 billion of junior subordinated debentures in the first quarter of 2004 to Goldman Sachs Capital I, a Delaware statutory trust that, in turn, issued $2.75 billion of guaranteed preferred beneficial interests to third parties and $85 million of common beneficial interests to Goldman Sachs. The junior subordinated debentures are included in “Unsecured long-term borrowings” in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Because of certain characteristics of the junior subordinated debt (and the associated trust preferred securities), including its long-term nature, our ability to defer coupon interest for up to ten consecutive semiannual periods and the subordinated nature of the debt in our capital structure, it qualifies as regulatory capital for CSE purposes and is included as part of our equity capital.  

 80   
 Subordinated Debt. In addition to junior subordinated debt issued to trusts, we had other outstanding subordinated debt of $11.23 billion as of November 2007. Although not part of our shareholders’ equity, subordinated debt may be used to meet a portion of our consolidated capital requirements as a CSE.  

 Capital Ratios and Metrics  

 The following table sets forth information on our assets, shareholders’ equity, leverage ratios and book value per common share:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Adjusted assets excludes (i) low-risk collateralized assets generally associated with our matched book and securities lending businesses (which we calculate by adding our securities borrowed and financial instruments purchased under agreements to resell, at fair value, and then subtracting our nonderivative short positions), (ii) cash and securities we segregate for regulatory and other purposes and (iii) goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. We do not deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts from total assets in order to be consistent with the calculation of tangible equity capital and the adjusted leverage ratio (see footnote 2 below).    

     The following table sets forth a reconciliation of total assets to adjusted assets:    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 81   
  (2)   Tangible equity capital equals total shareholders’ equity and junior subordinated debt issued to trusts less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. We do not deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts from total shareholders’ equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common shareholders’ equity. We consider junior subordinated debt issued to trusts to be a component of our tangible equity capital base due to certain characteristics of the debt, including its long-term nature, our ability to defer payments due on the debt and the subordinated nature of the debt in our capital structure.   

     The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total shareholders’ equity to tangible equity capital:    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (3)   Leverage ratio equals total assets divided by total shareholders’ equity.   

  (4)   Adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible equity capital. We believe that the adjusted leverage ratio is a more meaningful measure of our capital adequacy than the leverage ratio because it excludes certain low-risk collateralized assets that are generally supported with little or no capital and reflects the tangible equity capital deployed in our businesses.   

  (5)   Debt to equity ratio equals unsecured long-term borrowings divided by total shareholders’ equity.   

  (6)   Tangible common shareholders’ equity equals total shareholders’ equity less preferred stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. We do not deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts from total shareholders’ equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common shareholders’ equity.   

     The following table sets forth a reconciliation of total shareholders’ equity to tangible common shareholders’ equity:    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (7)   Book value per common share is based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements, of 439.0 million and 450.1 million as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively.   

  (8)   Tangible book value per common share is computed by dividing tangible common shareholders’ equity by the number of common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements.    

 82   
 Contractual Obligations and Commitments   

 Goldman Sachs has contractual obligations to make future payments related to our unsecured long-term borrowings, secured long-term financings, long-term noncancelable lease agreements and purchase obligations and has commitments under a variety of commercial arrangements.  

 The following table sets forth our contractual obligations by fiscal maturity date as of November 2007:  

 Contractual Obligations

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

    (1)   Obligations maturing within one year of our financial statement date or redeemable within one year of our financial statement date at the option of the holder are excluded from this table and are treated as short-term obligations. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our secured financings.   

    (2)   Obligations that are repayable prior to maturity at the option of Goldman Sachs are reflected at their contractual maturity dates. Obligations that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the holder are reflected at the dates such options become exercisable.   

    (3)   Includes $15.93 billion accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 155 or SFAS No. 159 as of November 2007, primarily consisting of hybrid financial instruments.   

    (4)   These obligations are reported within “Other secured financings” in the consolidated statements of financial condition and include $18.53 billion accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 159 as of November 2007.   

    (5)   Primarily includes amounts related to the acquisition of Litton Loan Servicing LP (Litton) and construction-related obligations.    

 As of November 2007, our unsecured long-term borrowings were $164.17 billion, with maturities extending to 2043, and consisted principally of senior borrowings. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our unsecured long-term borrowings.  

 As of November 2007, our future minimum rental payments, net of minimum sublease rentals, under noncancelable leases were $3.89 billion. These lease commitments, principally for office space, expire on various dates through 2069. Certain agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for increases in real estate taxes and other charges. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our leases.  

 Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our current and future space capacity in relation to current and projected staffing levels. In 2007, we incurred exit costs of $128 million (included in “occupancy” and “depreciation and amortization” expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings). We may incur additional exit costs in 2008 and thereafter to the extent we (i) reduce our space capacity or (ii) commit to, or occupy, new properties in the locations in which we operate and, consequently, dispose of existing space that had been held for potential growth. These exit costs may be material to our results of operations in a given period.  

 83   
 As of November 2007 and November 2006, we had construction-related obligations of $769 million and $1.63 billion, respectively, including outstanding commitments of $642 million and $500 million as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively, related to our new world headquarters in New York City, which is expected to cost between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion. We are partially financing this construction project with tax-exempt Liberty Bonds. We borrowed approximately $1.40 billion and approximately $250 million in 2005 and 2007, respectively, through the issuance of Liberty Bonds.  

 In addition, we entered into an agreement in 2007 to acquire Litton, the mortgage servicing unit of Credit-Based Asset Servicing and Securitization LLC (C-BASS). The transaction closed in December 2007 at a purchase price of $428 million, plus repayment of $916 million of outstanding Litton debt obligations.  

 The following table sets forth our commitments as of November 2007:  

 Commitments

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Our commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to counterparties that have fixed termination dates and are contingent on the satisfaction of all conditions to borrowing set forth in the contract. In connection with our lending activities, we had outstanding commitments to extend credit of $82.75 billion as of November 2007 compared with $100.48 billion as of November 2006. Since these commitments may expire unused or be reduced or cancelled at the counterparty’s request, the total commitment amount does not necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow requirements. Our commercial lending commitments are generally extended in connection with contingent acquisition financing and other types of corporate lending as well as commercial real estate financing. We may seek to reduce our credit risk on these commitments by syndicating all or substantial portions of commitments to other investors. In addition, commitments that are extended for contingent acquisition financing are often intended to be short-term in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other funding sources.  

 84   
 Substantially all of the commitments provided under the William Street credit extension program are to investment-grade corporate borrowers. Commitments under the program are extended by William Street Commitment Corporation (Commitment Corp.), a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. whose assets and liabilities are legally separated from other assets and liabilities of Goldman Sachs, William Street Credit Corporation, GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. or other consolidated wholly owned subsidiaries of Group Inc. The commitments extended by Commitment Corp. are supported, in part, by funding raised by William Street Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.), another consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. whose assets and liabilities are also legally separated from other assets and liabilities of Goldman Sachs. With respect to most of the William Street commitments, SMFG provides us with credit loss protection that is generally limited to 95% of the first loss we realize on approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will provide protection for 70% of the second loss on such commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion. We also use other financial instruments to mitigate credit risks related to certain William Street commitments not covered by SMFG.  

 Our commitments to extend credit also include financing for the warehousing of financial assets to be securitized. These financings are expected to be repaid from the proceeds of the related securitizations for which we may or may not act as underwriter. These arrangements are secured by the warehoused assets, primarily consisting of corporate bank loans and commercial mortgages as of November 2007 and residential mortgages and mortgage-backed securities, corporate bank loans and commercial mortgages as of November 2006.  

 See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our commitments, contingencies and guarantees.   

 Risk Management   

 Management believes that effective risk management is of primary importance to the success of Goldman Sachs. Accordingly, we have a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal risks we assume in conducting our activities. These risks include market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and reputational exposures.   

 Risk Management Structure   

 We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. In addition, a number of committees are responsible for monitoring risk exposures and for general oversight of our risk management process, as described further below. These committees (including their subcommittees), meet regularly and consist of senior members of both our revenue-producing units and departments that are independent of our revenue-producing units.  

 Segregation of duties and management oversight are fundamental elements of our risk management process. In addition to the committees described below, functions that are independent of the revenue-producing units, such as Compliance, Finance, Legal, Management Controls (Internal Audit) and Operations, perform risk management functions, which include monitoring, analyzing and evaluating risk.  

 Management Committee. All risk control functions ultimately report to our Management Committee. Through both direct and delegated authority, the Management Committee approves all of our operating activities and trading risk parameters.  

 Risk Committees. The Firmwide Risk Committee reviews the activities of existing trading businesses, approves new businesses and products, approves firmwide market risk limits, reviews business unit market risk limits, approves market risk limits for selected sovereign markets and  

 85   
 business units, approves sovereign credit risk limits and credit risk limits by ratings group, and reviews scenario analyses based on abnormal or “catastrophic” market movements.  

 The Divisional Risk Committee sets market risk limits for our trading activities subject to overall firmwide risk limits, based on a number of measures, including VaR, stress tests and scenario analyses. Several other committees oversee various risk, valuation, operational, credit and business practice issues related to our asset management business.  

 Business unit risk limits are established by the various risk committees and may be further allocated by the business unit managers to individual trading desks. Trading desk managers have the first line of responsibility for managing risk within prescribed limits. These managers have in-depth knowledge of the primary sources of risk in their respective markets and the instruments available to hedge their exposures.  

 Market risk limits are monitored by the Finance Division and are reviewed regularly by the appropriate risk committee. Limit violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee and business unit managers and addressed, as necessary. Credit risk limits are also monitored by the Finance Division and reviewed by the appropriate risk committee.  

 Business Practices Committee. The Business Practices Committee assists senior management in its oversight of compliance and operational risks and related reputational concerns, seeks to ensure the consistency of our policies, practices and procedures with our Business Principles, and makes recommendations on ways to mitigate potential risks.  

 Firmwide Capital Committee. The Firmwide Capital Committee reviews and approves transactions involving commitments of our capital. Such capital commitments include, but are not limited to, extensions of credit, alternative liquidity commitments, certain bond underwritings and certain distressed debt and principal finance activities. The Firmwide Capital Committee is also responsible for establishing business and reputational standards for capital commitments and seeking to ensure that they are maintained on a global basis.  

 Commitments Committee. The Commitments Committee reviews and approves underwriting and distribution activities, primarily with respect to offerings of equity and equity-related securities, and sets and maintains policies and procedures designed to ensure that legal, reputational, regulatory and business standards are maintained in conjunction with these activities. In addition to reviewing specific transactions, the Commitments Committee periodically conducts strategic reviews of industry sectors and products and establishes policies in connection with transaction practices.  

 Credit Policy Committee. The Credit Policy Committee establishes and reviews broad credit policies and parameters that are implemented by the Credit Department.  

 Finance Committee. The Finance Committee establishes and oversees our liquidity policies, sets certain inventory position limits and has oversight responsibility for liquidity risk, the size and composition of our balance sheet and capital base, and our credit ratings. The Finance Committee regularly reviews our funding position and capitalization and makes adjustments in light of current events, risks and exposures.  

 New Products Committee. The New Products Committee, under the oversight of the Firmwide Risk Committee, is responsible for reviewing and approving new products and businesses globally.  

 Operational Risk Committee. The Operational Risk Committee provides oversight of the ongoing development and implementation of our operational risk policies, framework and methodologies, and monitors the effectiveness of operational risk management.  

 Structured Products Committee. The Structured Products Committee reviews and approves structured product transactions entered into with our clients that raise legal, regulatory, tax or accounting issues or present reputational risk to Goldman Sachs.  

 86   
 Market Risk   

 The potential for changes in the market value of our trading and investing positions is referred to as market risk. Such positions result from market-making, proprietary trading, underwriting, specialist and investing activities. Substantially all of our inventory positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis and changes are recorded in net revenues.  

 Categories of market risk include exposures to interest rates, equity prices, currency rates and commodity prices. A description of each market risk category is set forth below:  

    •   Interest rate risks primarily result from exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads.   

    •   Equity price risks result from exposures to changes in prices and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices.   

    •   Currency rate risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates.   

    •   Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of commodities, such as electricity, natural gas, crude oil, petroleum products, and precious and base metals.    

 We seek to manage these risks by diversifying exposures, controlling position sizes and establishing economic hedges in related securities or derivatives. For example, we may hedge a portfolio of common stocks by taking an offsetting position in a related equity-index futures contract. The ability to manage an exposure may, however, be limited by adverse changes in the liquidity of the security or the related hedge instrument and in the correlation of price movements between the security and related hedge instrument.  

 In addition to applying business judgment, senior management uses a number of quantitative tools to manage our exposure to market risk for “Financial instruments owned, at fair value” and “Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value” in the consolidated statements of financial condition. These tools include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 87   
 VaR  

 VaR is the potential loss in value of trading positions due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a specified confidence level.  

 For the VaR numbers reported below, a one-day time horizon and a 95% confidence level were used. This means that there is a 1 in 20 chance that daily trading net revenues will fall below the expected daily trading net revenues by an amount at least as large as the reported VaR. Thus, shortfalls from expected trading net revenues on a single trading day greater than the reported VaR would be anticipated to occur, on average, about once a month. Shortfalls on a single day can exceed reported VaR by significant amounts. Shortfalls can also accumulate over a longer time horizon such as a number of consecutive trading days.  

 The modeling of the risk characteristics of our trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. While management believes that these assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no standard methodology for estimating VaR, and different assumptions and/or approximations could produce materially different VaR estimates.  

 We use historical data to estimate our VaR and, to better reflect current asset volatilities, we generally weight historical data to give greater importance to more recent observations. Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. An inherent limitation of VaR is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. Different VaR methodologies and distributional assumptions could produce a materially different VaR. Moreover, VaR calculated for a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges within one day.  

 The following tables set forth the daily VaR:  

 Average Daily VaR (1)

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

    (1)   Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk (e.g., due to transfer restrictions and/or illiquidity). See “— Other Market Risk Measures” below.   

    (2)   Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.    

 Our average daily VaR increased to $138 million in 2007 from $101 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to higher levels of exposure and volatility in interest rates and equity prices.  

 Our average daily VaR increased to $101 million in 2006 from $70 million in 2005. We increased our level of exposure across all risk categories, particularly equity prices and interest rates.  

 88   
 Daily VaR

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

    (1)   Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.    

 Our daily VaR increased to $134 million as of November 2007 from $119 million as of November 2006. The increase primarily reflected higher levels of exposure to interest rates, currency rates and commodity prices, as well as increased levels of volatility in interest rates, partially offset by the benefit of increased diversification effects among different risk categories.  

 The following chart presents our daily VaR during 2007:  

 Daily VaR

 ($ in millions)   

 89   
 Trading Net Revenues Distribution  

 The following chart sets forth the frequency distribution of our daily trading net revenues for substantially all inventory positions included in VaR for the year ended November 2007:  

 Daily Trading Net Revenues

 ($ in millions)   

 As part of our overall risk control process, daily trading net revenues are compared with VaR calculated as of the end of the prior business day. Trading losses incurred on a single day exceeded our 95% one-day VaR on ten occasions during 2007.  

 Other Market Risk Measures  

 Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk (e.g., due to transfer restrictions and/or illiquidity). The market risk related to our investments in the ordinary shares of ICBC and the convertible preferred stock of SMFG is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10% decline in the ICBC ordinary share price and a 10% decline in the SMFG common stock price, respectively. The market risk related to the remaining positions is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10% decline in asset values.  

 The sensitivity analyses for equity and debt positions in our trading portfolio and equity, debt (primarily mezzanine instruments) and real estate positions in our non-trading portfolio are measured by the impact of a decline in the asset values (including the impact of leverage in the underlying investments for real estate positions in our non-trading portfolio) of such positions. The fair value of the underlying positions may be impacted by factors such as transactions in similar instruments, completed or pending third-party transactions in the underlying investment or comparable entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or cash flows.  

 The sensitivity analysis of our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC excludes interests held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.  

 The sensitivity analysis of our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG, net of the economic hedge on a substantial portion of the common stock underlying our investment, is  

 90   
 measured by the impact of a decline in the SMFG common stock price. This sensitivity should not be extrapolated to a significant decline in the SMFG common stock price, as the relationship between the fair value of our investment and the SMFG common stock price would be nonlinear due to downside protection on the conversion stock price.  

 The following table sets forth market risk for positions not included in VaR. These measures do not reflect diversification benefits across asset categories and, given the differing likelihood of the potential declines in asset categories, these measures have not been aggregated:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The increase in our 10% sensitivity measures during 2007 in our trading and non-trading portfolios (excluding ICBC and SMFG) was primarily due to new investments.  

 In addition, as of November 2007 and November 2006, in our bank and insurance subsidiaries we held approximately $10.58 billion and $9.95 billion of securities, respectively, primarily consisting of mortgage-backed, federal agency and investment-grade corporate bonds.   

 Credit Risk   

 Credit risk represents the loss that we would incur if a counterparty or an issuer of securities or other instruments we hold fails to perform under its contractual obligations to us, or upon a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or other instruments, including OTC derivatives, we hold. Our exposure to credit risk principally arises through our trading, investing and financing activities. To reduce our credit exposures, we seek to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. In addition, we attempt to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by (i) entering into agreements that enable us to obtain collateral from a counterparty on an upfront or contingent basis, (ii) seeking third-party guarantees of the counterparty’s obligations, and/or (iii) transferring our credit risk to third parties using credit derivatives and/or other structures and techniques.  

 To measure and manage our credit exposures, we use a variety of tools, including credit limits referenced to both current exposure and potential exposure. Potential exposure is generally based on projected worst-case market movements over the life of a transaction. In addition, as part of our market risk management process, for positions measured by changes in credit spreads, we use VaR  

 91   
 and other sensitivity measures. To supplement our primary credit exposure measures, we also use scenario analyses, such as credit spread widening scenarios, stress tests and other quantitative tools.  

 Our global credit management systems monitor credit exposure to individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to counterparties and their affiliates. These systems also provide management, including the Firmwide Risk and Credit Policy Committees, with information regarding credit risk by product, industry sector, country and region.  

 While our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment funds and other institutional clients, resulting in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. In the ordinary course of business, we may also be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer.  

 As of November 2007 and November 2006, we held $45.75 billion (4% of total assets) and $46.20 billion (6% of total assets), respectively, of U.S. government and federal agency obligations (including securities guaranteed by the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation) included in “Financial instruments owned, at fair value” and “Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes” in the consolidated statements of financial condition. As of November 2007 and November 2006, we held $31.65 billion (3% of total assets) and $23.64 billion (3% of total assets), respectively, of other sovereign obligations, principally consisting of securities issued by the governments of Japan and the United Kingdom. In addition, as of November 2007 and November 2006, $144.92 billion and $104.76 billion of our financial instruments purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed, respectively, were collateralized by U.S. government and federal agency obligations. As of November 2007 and 2006, $41.26 billion and $38.22 billion of our financial instruments purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed, respectively, were collateralized by other sovereign obligations. As of November 2007 and November 2006, we did not have credit exposure to any other counterparty that exceeded 2% of our total assets. However, over the past several years, the amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing, due to, among other factors, the growth of our lending and OTC derivative activities and market evolution toward longer dated transactions. A further discussion of our derivative activities follows below.   

 Derivatives   

 Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange.  

 Substantially all of our derivative transactions are entered into to facilitate client transactions, to take proprietary positions or as a means of risk management. In addition to derivative transactions entered into for trading purposes, we enter into derivative contracts to manage currency exposure on our net investment in non-U.S. operations and to manage the interest rate and currency exposure on our long-term borrowings and certain short-term borrowings.  

 Derivatives are used in many of our businesses, and we believe that the associated market risk can only be understood relative to all of the underlying assets or risks being hedged, or as part of a broader trading strategy. Accordingly, the market risk of derivative positions is managed together with our nonderivative positions.  

 The fair value of our derivative contracts is reflected net of cash paid or received pursuant to credit support agreements and is reported on a net-by-counterparty basis in our consolidated statements of financial condition when management believes a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable netting agreement. For an OTC derivative, our credit exposure is directly with our counterparty and continues until the maturity or termination of such contract.  

 92   
 The following tables set forth the fair values of our OTC derivative assets and liabilities by product and by remaining contractual maturity:  

 OTC Derivatives

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

    (1)   Includes credit derivatives.     

 We enter into certain OTC option transactions that provide us or our counterparties with the right to extend the maturity of the underlying contract. The fair value of these option contracts is not material to the aggregate fair value of our OTC derivative portfolio. In the tables above, for option contracts that require settlement by delivery of an underlying derivative instrument, the remaining contractual maturity is generally classified based upon the maturity date of the underlying derivative instrument. In those instances where the underlying instrument does not have a maturity date or either counterparty has the right to settle in cash, the remaining contractual maturity is generally based upon the option expiration date.  

 93   
 The following table sets forth the distribution, by credit rating, of substantially all of our exposure with respect to OTC derivatives as of November 2007, after taking into consideration the effect of netting agreements. The categories shown reflect our internally determined public rating agency equivalents:  

 OTC Derivative Credit Exposure

 ($ in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

    (1)   Net of cash received pursuant to credit support agreements of $59.05 billion.    

 The following tables set forth our OTC derivative credit exposure, net of collateral, by remaining contractual maturity:  

 Exposure Net of Collateral

 (in millions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

    (1)   Where we have obtained collateral from a counterparty under a master trading agreement that covers multiple products and transactions, we have allocated the collateral ratably based on exposure before giving effect to such collateral.   

    (2)   Includes credit derivatives.    

 94   
 Derivative transactions may also involve legal risks including the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for a counterparty, that documentation has not been properly executed or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty. We attempt to minimize these risks by obtaining advice of counsel on the enforceability of agreements as well as on the authority of a counterparty to effect the derivative transaction. In addition, certain derivative transactions (e.g., credit derivative contracts) involve the risk that we may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security or obligation in order to satisfy any physical settlement requirement.   

 Liquidity and Funding Risk   

 Liquidity is of critical importance to companies in the financial services sector. Most failures of financial institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient liquidity resulting from adverse circumstances. Accordingly, Goldman Sachs has in place a comprehensive set of liquidity and funding policies that are intended to maintain significant flexibility to address both Goldman Sachs-specific and broader industry or market liquidity events. Our principal objective is to be able to fund Goldman Sachs and to enable our core businesses to continue to generate revenues, even under adverse circumstances.  

 Management has implemented a number of policies according to the following liquidity risk management framework:  

    •   Excess Liquidity — We maintain substantial excess liquidity to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows in a stressed environment including financing obligations.   

    •   Asset-Liability Management — We seek to maintain funding sources that are sufficiently long-term in order to withstand a prolonged or severe liquidity-stressed environment without having to rely on asset sales.   

    •   Conservative Liability Structure — We access funding across a diverse range of markets, products and counterparties, emphasize less credit-sensitive sources of funding and conservatively manage the distribution of funding across our entity structure.   

    •   Crisis Planning — We base our liquidity and funding management on stress-scenario planning and maintain a crisis plan detailing our response to a liquidity-threatening event.    

 Excess Liquidity  

 Our most important liquidity policy is to pre-fund what we estimate will be our likely cash needs during a liquidity crisis and hold such excess liquidity in the form of unencumbered, highly liquid securities that may be sold or pledged to provide same-day liquidity. This “Global Core Excess” liquidity is intended to allow us to meet immediate obligations without needing to sell other assets or depend on additional funding from credit-sensitive markets. We believe that this pool of excess liquidity provides us with a resilient source of funds and gives us significant flexibility in managing through a difficult funding environment. Our Global Core Excess reflects the following principles:  

    •   The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most critical to a company’s survival.   

    •   Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and collateral outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. Goldman Sachs’ businesses are diverse, and its cash needs are driven by many factors, including market movements, collateral requirements and client commitments, all of which can change dramatically in a difficult funding environment.   

    •   During a liquidity crisis, credit-sensitive funding, including unsecured debt and some types of secured financing agreements, may be unavailable and the terms or availability of other types of secured financing may change.   

    •   As a result of our policy to pre-fund liquidity that we estimate may be needed in a crisis, we hold more unencumbered securities and have larger unsecured debt balances than our businesses would otherwise require. We believe that our liquidity is stronger with greater    

 95   
      balances of highly liquid unencumbered securities, even though it increases our unsecured liabilities.    

 The size of our Global Core Excess is based on an internal liquidity model together with a qualitative assessment of the condition of the financial markets and of Goldman Sachs. Our liquidity model identifies and estimates cash and collateral outflows over a short-term horizon in a liquidity crisis, including, but not limited to:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following table sets forth the average loan value (the estimated amount of cash that would be advanced by counterparties against these securities) of our Global Core Excess:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 The U.S. dollar-denominated excess is comprised of only unencumbered U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities and highly liquid U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, all of which are Federal Reserve repo-eligible, as well as overnight cash deposits. Our non-U.S. dollar-denominated excess is comprised of only unencumbered French, German, United Kingdom and Japanese government bonds and euro, British pound and Japanese yen overnight cash deposits. We strictly limit our Global Core Excess to this narrowly defined list of securities and cash because we believe they are highly liquid, even in a difficult funding environment. We do not believe other potential sources of excess liquidity, such as lower-quality unencumbered securities or committed credit facilities, are as reliable in a liquidity crisis.  

 The majority of our Global Core Excess is structured such that it is available to meet the liquidity requirements of our parent company, Group Inc., and all of its subsidiaries. The remainder is held in our principal non-U.S. operating entities, primarily to better match the currency and timing requirements for those entities’ potential liquidity obligations.  

 In addition to our Global Core Excess, we have a significant amount of other unencumbered securities as a result of our business activities. These assets, which are located in the United States, Europe and Asia, include other government bonds, high-grade money market securities, corporate bonds and marginable equities. We do not include these securities in our Global Core Excess.  

 (1) The Global Core Excess excludes liquid assets of $6.17 billion held separately by William Street Funding Corporation. See 

 “— Contractual Obligations and Commitments” above for a further discussion of the William Street credit extension program.  

 96   
 We maintain Global Core Excess and other unencumbered assets in an amount that, if pledged or sold, would provide the funds necessary to replace at least 110% of our unsecured obligations that are scheduled to mature (or where holders have the option to redeem) within the next 12 months. We assume conservative loan values that are based on stress-scenario borrowing capacity and we regularly review these assumptions asset class by asset class. The estimated aggregate loan value of our Global Core Excess and our other unencumbered assets averaged $156.74 billion and $134.38 billion for the fiscal years ended 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

 Asset-Liability Management  

 We seek to maintain a highly liquid balance sheet and substantially all of our inventory is marked-to-market daily. We utilize aged inventory limits for certain financial instruments as a disincentive to our businesses to hold inventory over longer periods of time. We believe that these limits provide a complementary mechanism for ensuring appropriate balance sheet liquidity in addition to our standard position limits. Although our balance sheet fluctuates due to seasonal activity, market conventions and periodic market opportunities in certain of our businesses, our total assets and adjusted assets at financial statement dates are not materially different from those occurring within our reporting periods.  

 We seek to manage the maturity profile of our funding base such that we should be able to liquidate our assets prior to our liabilities coming due, even in times of prolonged or severe liquidity stress. We do not rely on immediate sales of assets (other than our Global Core Excess) to maintain liquidity in a distressed environment, although we recognize orderly asset sales may be prudent and necessary in a persistent liquidity crisis.  

 In order to avoid reliance on asset sales, our goal is to ensure that we have sufficient total capital (unsecured long-term borrowings plus total shareholders’ equity) to fund our balance sheet for at least one year. The amount of our total capital is based on an internal liquidity model, which incorporates, among other things, the following long-term financing requirements:  

    •   the portion of financial instruments owned that we believe could not be funded on a secured basis in periods of market stress, assuming conservative loan values;   

    •   goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, property, leasehold improvements and equipment, and other illiquid assets;   

    •   derivative and other margin and collateral requirements;   

    •   anticipated draws on our unfunded loan commitments; and   

    •   capital or other forms of financing in our regulated subsidiaries that is in excess of their long-term financing requirements. See “— Conservative Liability Structure” below for a further discussion of how we fund our subsidiaries.    

 97   
 Certain financial instruments may be more difficult to fund on a secured basis during times of market stress. Accordingly, we generally hold higher levels of total capital for these assets than more liquid types of financial instruments. The table below sets forth our aggregate holdings in these categories of financial instruments:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Excludes $7.64 billion of mortgage whole loans that were transferred to securitization vehicles where such transfers were accounted for as secured financings rather than sales under SFAS No. 140. We distributed to investors the securities that were issued by the securitization vehicles and therefore do not bear economic exposure to the underlying mortgage whole loans.   

  (2)   Includes funded commitments and inventory held in connection with our origination and secondary trading activities.   

  (3)   Includes interests in our merchant banking funds. Such amounts exclude assets related to consolidated investment funds of $8.13 billion and $6.03 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively, for which Goldman Sachs does not bear economic exposure.   

  (4)   Includes interests of $4.30 billion and $3.28 billion as of November 2007 and November 2006, respectively, held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.   

  (5)   Includes interests in other investment funds that we manage.    

 A large portion of these assets are funded through secured funding markets or nonrecourse financing. We focus on demonstrating a consistent ability to fund these assets on a secured basis for extended periods of time to reduce refinancing risk and to help ensure that they have an established amount of loan value in order that they can be funded in periods of market stress.  

 See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the financial instruments we hold.  

 98   
 Conservative Liability Structure  

 We seek to structure our liabilities conservatively to reduce refinancing risk and the risk that we may redeem or repurchase certain of our borrowings prior to their contractual maturity. Our conservative liability structure reflects the following policies:  

    •   We fund a substantial portion of our inventory on a secured basis. We believe secured financing provides Goldman Sachs with a more stable source of liquidity than unsecured financing, as it is less sensitive to changes in our credit due to the underlying collateral.   

    •   Our liquidity depends to an important degree on the stability of our short-term unsecured financing base. Accordingly, we prefer the use of promissory notes (in which Goldman Sachs does not make a market) over commercial paper, which we may repurchase prior to maturity through the ordinary course of business as a market maker. As of November 2007 and November 2006, our unsecured short-term borrowings, including the current portion of unsecured long-term borrowings, were $71.56 billion and $47.90 billion, respectively. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our unsecured short-term borrowings.   

    •   We recognize that secured funding transactions have greater refinancing risk when the underlying collateral is more difficult to fund. Consequently, we seek longer maturities for secured funding transactions collateralized by these assets. In some cases, we use extendible maturity features to obtain a rolling minimum term to the funding.   

    •   We issue substantially all of our unsecured debt without provisions that would, based solely upon an adverse change in our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price, trigger a requirement for an early payment, collateral support, change in terms, acceleration of maturity or the creation of an additional financial obligation.    

 We seek to maintain broad and diversified funding sources globally for both secured and unsecured funding. We make extensive use of the repurchase agreement and securities lending markets, as well as other secured funding markets. In addition, we issue debt through syndicated U.S. registered offerings, U.S. registered and 144A medium-term note programs, offshore medium-term note offerings and other bond offerings, U.S. and non-U.S. commercial paper and promissory note issuances, and other methods. We also arrange for letters of credit to be issued on our behalf.  

 We benefit from distributing our debt issuances through our own sales force to a large, diverse global creditor base and we believe that our relationships with our creditors are critical to our liquidity. Our creditors include banks, governments, securities lenders, pension funds, insurance companies and mutual funds. We access funding in a variety of markets in the Americas, Europe and Asia. We have imposed various internal guidelines on investor concentration, including the amount of our commercial paper that can be owned and letters of credit that can be issued by any single investor or group of investors.  

 99   
 To mitigate refinancing risk, we have created internal guidelines on the principal amount of debt maturing on any one day or during any week or year. The following table sets forth our quarterly unsecured long-term borrowings maturity profile through 2013:  

 Unsecured Long-Term Borrowings Maturity Profile

 ($ in millions)   

 The weighted average maturity of our unsecured long-term borrowings as of November 2007 was approximately seven years. We swap a substantial portion of our long-term borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations with short-term floating interest rates in order to minimize our exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements.  

 For a discussion of factors that could impair our ability to access the capital markets, see “— Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business” above as well as “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Subsidiary Funding Policies. Substantially all of our unsecured funding is raised by our parent company, Group Inc. The parent company then lends the necessary funds to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their asset financing and capital requirements. In addition, the parent company provides its regulated subsidiaries with the necessary capital to meet their regulatory requirements. The benefits of this approach to subsidiary funding include enhanced control and greater flexibility to meet the funding requirements of our subsidiaries.  

 Our intercompany funding policies are predicated on an assumption that, unless legally provided for, funds or securities are not freely available from a subsidiary to its parent company or other subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or limit the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Group Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on obligations, including debt obligations. As such, we assume that capital or other financing provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available to our parent company or other subsidiaries. In addition, we assume that the Global Core Excess held in our principal non-U.S. operating entities will not be available to our parent company or other subsidiaries and therefore is available only to meet the potential liquidity requirements of those entities.  

 100   
 We also manage our liquidity risk by requiring senior and subordinated intercompany loans to have maturities equal to or shorter than the maturities of the aggregate borrowings of the parent company. This policy ensures that the subsidiaries’ obligations to the parent company will generally mature in advance of the parent company’s third-party borrowings. In addition, many of our subsidiaries and affiliates maintain unencumbered assets to cover their intercompany borrowings (other than subordinated debt) in order to mitigate parent company liquidity risk.  

 Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its regulated subsidiaries; for example, as of November 2007, Group Inc. had $24.49 billion of such equity and subordinated indebtedness invested in Goldman, Sachs & Co., its principal U.S. registered broker-dealer; $27.51 billion invested in Goldman Sachs International, a regulated U.K. broker-dealer; $2.40 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P., a U.S. registered broker-dealer; and $3.15 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd., a regulated Japanese broker-dealer. Group Inc. also had $44.99 billion of unsubordinated loans to these entities as of November 2007, as well as significant amounts of capital invested in and loans to its other regulated subsidiaries.  

 Crisis Planning  

 In order to be prepared for a liquidity event, or a period of market stress, we base our liquidity risk management framework and our resulting funding and liquidity policies on conservative stress-scenario assumptions. Our planning incorporates several market-based and operational stress scenarios. We also periodically conduct liquidity crisis drills to test our lines of communication and backup funding procedures.  

 In addition, we maintain a liquidity crisis plan that specifies an approach for analyzing and responding to a liquidity-threatening event. The plan provides the framework to estimate the likely impact of a liquidity event on Goldman Sachs based on some of the risks identified above and outlines which and to what extent liquidity maintenance activities should be implemented based on the severity of the event. It also lists the crisis management team and internal and external parties to be contacted to ensure effective distribution of information.  

 Credit Ratings  

 We rely upon the short-term and long-term debt capital markets to fund a significant portion of our day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of debt financing is influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are important when we are competing in certain markets and when we seek to engage in longer term transactions, including OTC derivatives. We believe our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit rating agencies’ assessment of our liquidity, market, credit and operational risk management practices, the level and variability of our earnings, our capital base, our franchise, reputation and management, our corporate governance and the external operating environment. See “— Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business” above for a discussion of the risks associated with a reduction in our credit ratings.  

 The following table sets forth our unsecured credit ratings as of November 2007:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 101   
 As of November 2007, collateral or termination payments pursuant to bilateral agreements with certain counterparties of approximately $728 million would have been required in the event of a one-notch reduction in our long-term credit ratings. In evaluating our liquidity requirements, we consider additional collateral or termination payments that would be required in the event of a two-notch downgrade in our long-term credit ratings, as well as collateral that has not been called by counterparties, but is available to them.  

 Cash Flows  

 As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex and interrelated and bear little relation to our net earnings and net assets and, consequently, we believe that traditional cash flow analysis is less meaningful in evaluating our liquidity position than the excess liquidity and asset-liability management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may, however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and strategic initiatives in our business.  

 Year Ended November 2007. Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $5.59 billion to $11.88 billion at the end of 2007. We raised $73.79 billion in net cash from financing and investing activities, primarily through the issuance of unsecured borrowings, partially offset by common stock repurchases. We used net cash of $68.20 billion in our operating activities, primarily to capitalize on trading and investing opportunities for our clients and ourselves.  

 Year Ended November 2006. Our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $3.97 billion to $6.29 billion at the end of 2006. We raised $64.09 billion in net cash from financing activities, primarily in long-term borrowings as well as through secured financings, partially offset by common stock repurchases. We used net cash of $68.06 billion in our operating and investing activities, primarily to capitalize on trading and investing opportunities for our clients and ourselves.   

 Operational Risk   

 Operational risk relates to the risk of loss arising from shortcomings or failures in internal processes, people or systems, or from external events. Operational risk can arise from many factors ranging from routine processing errors to potentially costly incidents related to, for example, major systems failures. Operational risk may also cause reputational harm. Thus, efforts to identify, manage and mitigate operational risk must be equally sensitive to the risk of reputational damage as well as the risk of financial loss.  

 We manage operational risk through the application of long-standing, but continuously evolving, firmwide control standards which are supported by the training, supervision and development of our people; the active participation and commitment of senior management in a continuous process of identifying and mitigating key operational risks across Goldman Sachs; and a framework of strong and independent control departments that monitor operational risk on a daily basis. Together, these elements form a strong firmwide control culture that serves as the foundation of our efforts to minimize operational risk exposure.  

 The Operational Risk Department, an independent risk management function, is responsible for developing and implementing a standardized framework to identify, measure, monitor, and report operational risks to support active risk management across Goldman Sachs. This framework, which evolves with the changing needs of our businesses and regulatory guidance, incorporates analysis of internal and external operational risk events, business environment and internal control factors, and scenario analysis. The framework also provides regular reporting of our operational risk exposures to our Board, risk committees and senior management. For a further discussion of operational risk see “— Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 102   
 Recent Accounting Developments   

 FIN No. 48. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109.” FIN No. 48 requires that we determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets this recognition threshold, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the financial statements. We will adopt the provisions of FIN No. 48 in the first quarter of 2008. Adoption of FIN No. 48 will not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

 SFAS No. 157. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements.” SFAS No. 157 clarifies that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under SFAS No. 157, fair value measurements are not adjusted for transaction costs.  

 SFAS No. 157 nullifies the guidance included in Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 02-3, “Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities,” that prohibited the recognition of a day one gain or loss on derivative contracts (and hybrid financial instruments measured at fair value under SFAS No. 155) where we were unable to verify all of the significant model inputs to observable market data and/or verify the model to market transactions. However, SFAS No. 157 requires that a fair value measurement reflect the assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability based on the best information available. Assumptions include the risks inherent in a particular valuation technique (such as a pricing model) and/or the risks inherent in the inputs to the model.  

 In addition, SFAS No. 157 prohibits the recognition of “block discounts” for large holdings of unrestricted financial instruments where quoted prices are readily and regularly available for an identical asset or liability in an active market.  

 The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are to be applied prospectively, except changes in fair value measurements that result from the initial application of SFAS No. 157 to existing derivative financial instruments measured under EITF Issue No. 02-3, existing hybrid financial instruments measured at fair value and block discounts, all of which are to be recorded as an adjustment to beginning retained earnings in the year of adoption.  

 We adopted SFAS No. 157 as of the beginning of 2007. The transition adjustment to beginning retained earnings was a gain of $51 million, net of tax. For the first quarter of 2007, the effect of the nullification of EITF Issue No. 02-3 and the removal of liquidity discounts for actively traded positions was not material. In addition, under SFAS No. 157, gains on principal investments are recorded in the absence of substantial third-party transactions if market evidence is sufficient. In the first quarter of 2007, we recorded approximately $500 million of such gains as a result of adopting SFAS No. 157.  

 SFAS No. 158. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132-R.” SFAS No. 158 requires an entity to recognize in its statement of financial condition the funded status of its defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. SFAS No. 158 also requires an entity to recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit pension and postretirement plan within accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, to the extent such changes are not recognized in earnings as components of periodic net benefit cost. SFAS No. 158 is effective as of the end of the fiscal year ending after December 15, 2006. We adopted SFAS No. 158 as of the end of 2007. The adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss for the initial application of SFAS No. 158 was $194 million, net of tax.  

 103   
 SFAS No. 159. In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities,” which gives entities the option to measure eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value (i.e., the fair value option), on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. The election to use the fair value option is available at specified election dates, such as when an entity first recognizes a financial asset or financial liability or upon entering into a firm commitment. Subsequent changes in fair value must be recorded in earnings. Additionally, SFAS No. 159 allows for a one-time election for existing positions upon adoption, with the transition adjustment recorded to beginning retained earnings.  

 We adopted SFAS No. 159 as of the beginning of 2007 and elected to apply the fair value option to the following financial assets and liabilities existing at the time of adoption:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The transition adjustment to beginning retained earnings related to the adoption of SFAS No. 159 was a loss of $45 million, net of tax, substantially all of which related to applying the fair value option to prepaid physical commodity transactions.  

 Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, we have elected to apply the fair value option (i) to new positions within the above categories, (ii) to corporate loans, corporate loan commitments and certificates of deposit issued by GS Bank USA and (iii) generally to investments where we would otherwise apply the equity method of accounting. In certain cases, we may continue to apply the equity method of accounting to those investments which are strategic in nature or closely related to our principal business activities, where we have a significant degree of involvement in the cash flows or operations of the investee, and/or where cost-benefit considerations are less significant.  

 The primary reasons for electing the fair value option are mitigating volatility in earnings from using different measurement attributes, simplification and cost-benefit considerations.  

 SOP No. 07-1 and FSP FIN No. 46-R-7. In June 2007, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) issued Statement of Position (SOP) No. 07-1, “Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide ‘Audits of Investment Companies’ and Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments in Investment Companies.” SOP No. 07-1 clarifies when an entity may apply the provisions of the Audit and Accounting Guide for Investment Companies (the Guide). In May 2007, the FASB issued FSP FIN No. 46-R-7, “Application of FIN 46-R to Investment Companies,” which amends FIN No. 46-R to make permanent the temporary deferral of the application of FIN No. 46-R to entities within the scope of the revised Guide under SOP No. 07-1. FSP FIN No. 46-R-7 is effective upon adoption of SOP No. 07-1. In November 2007, the FASB issued Proposed FSP SOP No. 07-1-a, “The Effective Date of AICPA Statement of Position 07-1,” which proposes to indefinitely defer the effective date for SOP No. 07-01 and, consequently, FSP FIN No. 46-R-7.  

 104   
 EITF Issue No. 06-11. In June 2007, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 06-11, “Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards.” EITF Issue No. 06-11 requires that the tax benefit related to dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units, which are expected to vest, be recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital. We currently account for this tax benefit as a reduction to income tax expense. EITF Issue No. 06-11 is to be applied prospectively for tax benefits on dividends declared in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007, and we expect to adopt the provisions of EITF Issue No. 06-11 beginning in the first quarter of 2009. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting EITF Issue No. 06-11 on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk