PART I   

  Item 1.    Business     

 Introduction   

 Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals. Goldman Sachs is the successor to a commercial paper business founded in 1869 by Marcus Goldman. On May 7, 1999, we converted from a partnership to a corporation and completed an initial public offering of our common stock.  

 Our activities are divided into three segments: (i) Investment Banking, (ii) Trading and Principal Investments and (iii) Asset Management and Securities Services.  

 All references to 2007, 2006 and 2005 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, November 30, 2007, November 24, 2006 and November 25, 2005, respectively. When we use the terms “Goldman Sachs,” “the firm,” “we,” “us” and “our,” we mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. References herein to the Annual Report on Form 10-K are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007.  

 Financial information concerning our business segments and geographic regions for each of 2007, 2006 and 2005 is set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, which are in Part II, Items 7, 7A and 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Our Internet address is www.gs.com and the investor relations section of our web site is located at www.gs.com/shareholders. We make available free of charge, on or through the investor relations section of our web site, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Also posted on our web site, and available in print upon request of any shareholder to our Investor Relations Department, are our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, our Policy Regarding Director Independence Determinations, our Policy on Reporting of Concerns Regarding Accounting and Other Matters, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers and employees. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our web site any amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to any executive officer, director or senior financial officer (as defined in the Code). In addition, our web site includes information concerning purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to certain non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in the SEC’s Regulation G) that we may make public orally, telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means from time to time.  

 Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 85 Broad Street, 17th Floor, New York, New York 10004, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone: 212-902-0300, e-mail: gs-investor-relations@gs.com.  

 1   
 Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995   

 We have included or incorporated by reference in the Annual Report on Form 10-K, and from time to time our management may make, statements that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements include statements other than historical information or statements of current condition and may relate to our future plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may also include our belief regarding the effect of various legal proceedings, as set forth under “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as statements about the objectives and effectiveness of our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses and statements about our investment banking transaction backlog, in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, those discussed below and under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 In the case of statements about our investment banking transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the risk that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues, if any, that we actually earn from these transactions may differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected. Important factors that could result in a modification of the terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline in general economic conditions, outbreak of hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions, a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors that could adversely affect our investment banking transactions, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 2   
 Segment Operating Results

 (in millions)    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Includes net provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings of $37 million, $45 million and $37 million for the years ended November 2007, November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, that have not been allocated to our segments.    

 3   
 Where We Conduct Business   

 As of November 30, 2007, we operated offices in over 25 countries and 43% of our 30,522 employees were based outside the United States. In 2007, we derived 49% of our net revenues and 57% of our pre-tax earnings outside of the Americas. See geographic information in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Our clients and customers are located worldwide, and we are an active participant in financial markets around the world. We have developed and continue to build strong investment banking relationships in new and developing markets. We also continue to expand our presence throughout these markets to invest strategically when opportunities arise and to work more closely with our asset management clients in these regions. Our global reach is illustrated by the following:  

    •   we are a member of and an active participant in most of the world’s major stock, options and futures exchanges and marketplaces;   

    •   we are a primary dealer in many of the largest government bond markets around the world;   

    •   we have interbank dealer status in currency markets around the world; and   

    •   we are a member of or have relationships with major commodities exchanges worldwide.    

 Our businesses are supported by our Global Investment Research division, which, as of November 2007, provided research coverage of over 3,250 companies worldwide and over 50 national economies, and maintained a presence in locations around the world.  

 We continue to expand our geographic reach. For example, over the past two years we have opened offices in Mumbai, Moscow, Sao Paulo, Dubai, Qatar and Tel Aviv, become licensed as a broker-dealer in Russia, India and China, opened a bank in Brazil and entered into the asset management business in South Korea. In December 2007, we established two wholly owned banks in Dublin, Ireland. Through this banking presence, we will initially focus on our private client business, underwrite commercial bank loans, undertake fund administration for our European global securities services business and facilitate funding transactions for the firm.  

 4   
 Business Segments   

 The primary products and activities of our business segments are set forth in the following chart:  

  Business Segment/Component       Primary Products and Activities   

   Investment Banking:          

   Financial Advisory         • Mergers and acquisitions advisory services    

         • Financial restructuring advisory services    

   Underwriting         • Equity and debt underwriting    

   Trading and Principal Investments:          

   Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities         • Commodities and commodity derivatives, including power generation and related activities    

         • Credit products, including trading and investing in credit derivatives, investment-grade corporate securities, high-yield securities, bank and secured loans, municipal securities, emerging market and distressed debt, public and private equity securities and real estate    

         • Currencies and currency derivatives    

         • Interest rate products, including interest rate derivatives, global government securities and money market instruments, including matched book positions    

         • Mortgage-related securities and loan products and other asset-backed instruments    

   Equities         • Equity securities and derivatives    

         • Securities, futures and options clearing services    

         • Market-making and specialist activities in equity securities and options    

         • Insurance activities    

   Principal Investments         • Principal investments in connection with merchant banking activities    

         • Investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited    

         • Investment in the convertible preferred stock of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc.    

   Asset Management and Securities Services:          

   Asset Management         • Investment advisory services, financial planning and investment products (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled vehicles) across all major asset classes, including money markets, fixed income, equities and alternative investments (including hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies), for institutional and individual investors (including high-net-worth clients, as well as retail clients through third-party channels)    

         • Management of merchant banking funds    

   Securities Services         • Prime brokerage    

         • Financing services    

         • Securities lending    

 5   
 Investment Banking  

 Investment Banking represented 16% of 2007 net revenues. We provide a broad range of investment banking services to a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals and seek to develop and maintain long-term relationships with these clients as their lead investment bank.  

 Our current structure, which is organized by regional, industry and product groups, seeks to combine client-focused investment bankers with execution and industry expertise. We continually assess and adapt our organization to meet the demands of our clients in each geographic region. Through our commitment to teamwork, we believe that we provide services in an integrated fashion for the benefit of our clients.  

 Our goal is to make available to our clients the entire resources of the firm in a seamless fashion, with investment banking serving as “front of the house.” To accomplish this objective, we focus on coordination among our equity and debt underwriting activities and our corporate risk and liability management activities. This coordination is intended to assist our investment banking clients in managing their asset and liability exposures and their capital.  

 Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components: Financial Advisory and Underwriting.  

 Financial Advisory  

 Financial Advisory includes advisory assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities, restructurings and spin-offs. Our mergers and acquisitions capabilities are evidenced by our significant share of assignments in large, complex transactions for which we provide multiple services, including “one-stop” acquisition financing and cross-border structuring expertise, as well as services in other areas of the firm, such as interest rate and currency hedging. In particular, a significant number of the loan commitments and bank and bridge loan facilities that we enter into arise in connection with our advisory assignments.  

 Underwriting  

 Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of a wide range of securities and other financial instruments, including common and preferred stock, convertible and exchangeable securities, investment-grade debt, high-yield debt, sovereign and emerging market debt, municipal debt, bank loans, asset-backed securities and real estate-related securities, such as mortgage-related securities and the securities of real estate investment trusts.  

 Equity Underwriting. Equity underwriting has been a long-term core strength of Goldman Sachs. As with mergers and acquisitions, we have been particularly successful in winning mandates for large, complex transactions. We believe our leadership in worldwide initial public offerings and worldwide public common stock offerings reflects our expertise in complex transactions, prior experience and distribution capabilities.  

 Debt Underwriting. We engage in the underwriting and origination of various types of debt instruments, including investment-grade debt securities, high-yield debt securities, bank and bridge loans and emerging market debt securities, which may be issued by, among others, corporate, sovereign and agency issuers. In addition, we underwrite and originate structured securities, which include mortgage-related securities and other asset-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations.  

 6   
 Trading and Principal Investments  

 Trading and Principal Investments represented 68% of 2007 net revenues. Trading and Principal Investments facilitates client transactions with a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals and takes proprietary positions through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed income and equity products, currencies, commodities and derivatives on these products. In addition, we engage in market-making and specialist activities on equities and options exchanges, and we clear client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. In connection with our merchant banking and other investing activities, we make principal investments directly and through funds that we raise and manage.  

 To meet the needs of our clients, Trading and Principal Investments is diversified across a wide range of products. We believe our willingness and ability to take risk to facilitate client transactions distinguishes us from many of our competitors and substantially enhances our client relationships.  

 Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into three components: Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities; Equities; and Principal Investments.  

 Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities and Equities  

 Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) and Equities are large and diversified operations through which we engage in a variety of customer-driven and proprietary trading and investing activities.  

 In our customer-driven businesses, FICC and Equities strive to deliver high-quality service by offering broad market-making and market knowledge to our clients on a global basis. In addition, we use our expertise to take positions in markets, by committing capital and taking risk, to facilitate client transactions and to provide liquidity. Our willingness to make markets, commit capital and take risk in a broad range of fixed income, currency, commodity and equity products and their derivatives is crucial to our client relationships and to support our underwriting business by providing secondary market liquidity.  

 We generate trading net revenues from our customer-driven businesses in three ways:  

    •   First, in large, highly liquid markets, we undertake a high volume of transactions for modest spreads and fees.   

    •   Second, by capitalizing on our strong relationships and capital position, we undertake transactions in less liquid markets where spreads and fees are generally larger.   

    •   Finally, we structure and execute transactions that address complex client needs.    

 Our FICC and Equities businesses operate in close coordination to provide clients with services and cross-market knowledge and expertise.  

 In our proprietary activities in both FICC and Equities, we assume a variety of risks and devote resources to identify, analyze and benefit from these exposures. We capitalize on our analytical models to analyze information and make informed trading judgments, and we seek to benefit from perceived disparities in the value of assets in the trading markets and from macroeconomic and issuer-specific trends.  

 7   
 FICC  

 We make markets in and trade interest rate and credit products, mortgage-related securities and loan products and other asset-backed instruments, currencies and commodities, structure and enter into a wide variety of derivative transactions, and engage in proprietary trading and investing. FICC has five principal businesses: commodities; credit products; currencies; interest rate products, including money market instruments; and mortgage-related securities and loan products and other asset-backed instruments.  

 Commodities. We enter into trades with our clients in, make markets in, and trade for our own account a wide variety of commodities, commodity derivatives and interests in commodity-related assets, including oil and oil products, metals, natural gas and electricity, and forest products.  

 As part of our commodities business, we acquire and dispose of interests in, and engage in the development and operation of, electric power generation facilities and related activities. In November 2007, we disposed of approximately 80% of our ownership interests in 14 power plants, and we have entered into contractual arrangements to manage these plants. In addition to our remaining minority interest in these facilities, we have a portfolio of four other power generation facilities.  

 Credit Products. We offer to and trade for our clients a broad array of credit and credit-linked products all over the world, including credit derivatives, investment-grade corporate securities, high-yield securities, bank and secured loans (origination and trading), municipal securities, and emerging market and distressed debt. For example, we enter, as principal, into complex structured transactions designed to meet client needs.  

 In addition, we provide credit through bridge and other loan facilities to a broad range of clients. Commitments that are extended for contingent acquisition financing are often intended to be short-term in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other funding sources. As part of our ongoing credit origination activities, we may seek to reduce our credit risk on commitments by syndicating all or substantial portions of commitments to other investors or, upon funding, by securitizing the positions through investment vehicles sold to other investors. Underwriting fees from syndications of these commitments are recorded in debt underwriting in our Investment Banking segment. However, to the extent that we recognize losses on these commitments, such losses are recorded within our Trading and Principal Investments segment, net of any related underwriting fees. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations and Commitments” in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our commitments.  

 Our credit products business includes making significant long-term and short-term investments for our own account (sometimes investing together with our merchant banking funds) in a broad array of asset classes (including distressed debt) globally. We opportunistically invest in debt and equity securities and secured loans, and in private equity, real estate and other assets.  

 Currencies. We act as a dealer in foreign exchange and trade for our clients and ourselves in most currencies on exchanges and in cash and derivative markets globally.  

 Interest Rate Products. We trade and make markets in a variety of interest rate products, including interest rate swaps, options and other derivatives, and government bonds, as well as money market instruments, such as commercial paper, treasury bills, repurchase agreements and other highly liquid securities and instruments. This business includes our matched book, which consists of short-term collateralized financing transactions.  

 8   
 Mortgage Business. We make markets in and trade for our clients and ourselves commercial and residential mortgage-related securities and loan products (including prime, subprime and other nontraditional mortgages) and other asset-backed and derivative instruments. We acquire positions in these products for proprietary trading purposes as well as for securitization or syndication. We also originate and service commercial and residential mortgages.  

 Equities  

 We make markets in and trade equities and equity-related products, structure and enter into equity derivative transactions, and engage in proprietary trading. We generate commissions from executing and clearing client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide through our Equities customer franchise and clearing activities.  

 Equities includes two principal businesses: our customer franchise business and principal strategies. We also engage in specialist and insurance activities.  

 Customer Franchise Business. Our customer franchise business includes primarily customer-driven activities in the shares, equity derivatives and convertible securities markets. These activities also include clearing client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide, as well as our options specialist and market-making businesses. Our customer franchise business increasingly involves providing our clients with access to electronic “low-touch” equity trading platforms, and electronic trades now account for the majority of our customer trading activity in this business. However, a majority of our net revenues in this business continues to be derived from our traditional “high-touch” handling of more complex trades. We expect both types of trading activities to remain important components of our customer franchise business.  

 We trade equity securities and equity-related products, including convertible securities, options, futures and over-the-counter (OTC) derivative instruments, on a global basis as an agent, as a market maker or otherwise as a principal. As a principal, we facilitate client transactions, often by committing capital and taking risk, to provide liquidity to clients with large blocks of stocks or options. For example, we are active in the execution of large block trades. We also execute transactions as agent and offer clients direct electronic access to trading markets.  

 In the options and futures markets, we structure, distribute and execute derivatives on market indices, industry groups, financial measures and individual company stocks to facilitate client transactions and our proprietary activities. We develop strategies and render advice with respect to portfolio hedging and restructuring and asset allocation transactions. We also create specially tailored instruments to enable sophisticated investors to undertake hedging strategies and to establish or liquidate investment positions. We are one of the leading participants in the trading and development of equity derivative instruments. In options, we are a specialist and/or market maker on the International Securities Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, NYSE Arca, the Boston Options Exchange, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and the American Stock Exchange.  

 Principal Strategies. Our principal strategies business is a multi-strategy proprietary investment business that invests and trades for our own account. Principal strategies trades and invests our capital across global markets employing strategies that are primarily focused on public markets. Most strategies involve fundamental equities and relative value trading (which involves trading strategies designed to take advantage of perceived discrepancies in the relative value of financial instruments, including equity, equity-related and debt instruments). Other strategies involve event-driven investments (which focus on event-oriented special situations such as corporate restructurings, bankruptcies, recapitalizations, mergers and acquisitions, and legal and regulatory events) as well as convertible bond trading, various types of volatility trading and principal finance (which includes private structured investments in public or private companies).  

 At the start of our first fiscal quarter of 2008, we reassigned approximately one-half of the traders and other personnel and transferred approximately one-half of the firm’s assets comprising our principal strategies business in an effort to strengthen and diversify our asset management offerings. These assets are now invested in a new alternative investment fund managed by our asset  

 9   
 management business. Over time, we intend to replace the reassigned personnel and transferred assets of our principal strategies business.  

 Specialist Activities. Our specialist activities business consists of our stock and exchange-traded funds (ETF) specialist and market-making businesses. We engage in specialist and market-making activities on equities exchanges. In the United States, we are one of the leading stock specialists on the NYSE. For ETFs, we are a specialist on the NYSE, the American Stock Exchange and NYSE Arca.  

 Insurance Activities. Through our insurance subsidiaries, we buy, sell and originate variable annuity and life insurance contracts, and we participate opportunistically in reinsurance activities, including life and annuity reinsurance and property catastrophe reinsurance.  

 Principal Investments  

 Principal Investments primarily represents net revenues from four primary sources: returns on corporate and real estate investments, overrides on corporate and real estate investments, our investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC) and our investment in the convertible preferred stock of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG).  

 Returns on Corporate and Real Estate Investments. As of November 2007, the aggregate carrying value of our principal investments held directly or through our merchant banking funds, excluding our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC and the convertible preferred stock of SMFG, was $11.93 billion, comprised of corporate principal investments with an aggregate carrying value of $9.50 billion and real estate investments with an aggregate carrying value of $2.43 billion. In addition, as of November 2007, we had outstanding unfunded equity capital commitments of up to $15.25 billion.  

 Overrides. Consists of the increased share of the income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds when the return on a fund’s investments over the life of the fund exceeds certain threshold returns (typically referred to as an override). Overrides are recognized in net revenues when all material contingencies have been resolved.  

 ICBC. Our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC was acquired on April 28, 2006. The ordinary shares acquired from ICBC are subject to transfer restrictions that, among other things, prohibit any sale, disposition or other transfer until April 28, 2009. From April 28, 2009 to October 20, 2009, we may transfer up to 50% of the aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that we owned as of October 20, 2006. We may transfer the remaining shares after October 20, 2009. As of November 2007, the carrying value of our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC was $6.81 billion. A portion of our interest is held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.  

 SMFG. Our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG is generally nontransferable without the consent of SMFG but is freely convertible into SMFG common stock. As of November 2007, we had hedged approximately 90% of the common stock underlying our investment in SMFG and there were no restrictions on our ability to hedge the remainder. As of November 2007, the carrying value of our investment in the SMFG preferred stock was $4.06 billion.  

 For further information regarding our investments in the ordinary shares of ICBC and the convertible preferred stock of SMFG, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Fair Value — Cash Instruments” in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 10   
 Asset Management and Securities Services  

 Asset Management and Securities Services represented 16% of 2007 net revenues. Our asset management business provides investment advisory and financial planning services and offers investment products (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled vehicles) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and primarily generates revenues in the form of management and incentive fees. Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing services and securities lending services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high-net-worth individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the form of interest rate spreads or fees.  

 Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided into two components: Asset Management and Securities Services.  

 Asset Management  

 We offer a broad array of investment strategies, advice and planning. We provide asset management services and offer investment products (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and private investment funds) across all major asset classes: money markets, fixed income, equities and alternative investments (including hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies). Through our subsidiary, The Ayco Company, L.P. (Ayco), we also provide fee-based financial counseling and financial education in the United States.  

 Assets under management (AUM) typically generate fees as a percentage of asset value, which is affected by investment performance and by inflows or redemptions. The fees that we charge vary by asset class, as do our related expenses. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s return or when the return on assets under management exceeds specified benchmark returns or other performance targets. Incentive fees are recognized when the performance period ends and they are no longer subject to adjustment. We have numerous incentive fee arrangements, many of which have annual performance periods that end on December 31. For that reason, incentive fees have been seasonally weighted to our first quarter.  

 AUM includes our mutual funds, alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and individual investors. Alternative investments include our merchant banking funds, which generate revenues as described below under “Management of Merchant Banking Funds.” AUM includes assets in clients’ brokerage accounts to the extent that they generate fees based on the assets in the accounts rather than commissions on transactional activity in the accounts.  

 AUM does not include assets in brokerage accounts that generate commissions, mark-ups and spreads based on transactional activity, or our own investments in funds that we manage. Net revenues from these assets are included in our Trading and Principal Investments segment. AUM also does not include non-fee-paying assets, including interest-bearing deposits held through Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA).  

 See “Trading and Principal Investments — Equities — Principal Strategies” above for a discussion of the personnel and assets that we moved from our principal strategies business to our asset management business at the start of our first fiscal quarter of 2008.  

 11   
 The amount of AUM is set forth in the graph below. In the following graph, as well as in the following tables, substantially all assets under management are valued as of November 30:  

 Assets Under Management

 (in billions)   

 The following table sets forth AUM by asset class:  

 Assets Under Management by Asset Class

 (in billions)   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  (1)   Primarily includes hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies.    

 12   
 Clients. Our clients are institutions and individuals, including both high-net-worth and retail investors. We access institutional and high-net-worth clients through both direct and third-party channels and retail clients primarily through third-party channels. Our institutional clients include pension funds, governmental organizations, corporations, insurance companies, banks, foundations and endowments. In third-party distribution channels, we distribute our mutual funds, alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts through brokerage firms, banks, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. Our clients are located worldwide.  

 The table below sets forth the amount of AUM by distribution channel and client category:  

 Assets Under Management by Distribution Channel

 (in billions)   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Management of Merchant Banking Funds. Goldman Sachs sponsors numerous corporate and real estate private investment funds. Our strategy with respect to these funds generally is to invest opportunistically to build a portfolio of investments that is diversified by industry, product type, geographic region, and transaction structure and type. Our corporate investment funds pursue, on a global basis, long-term investments in equity and debt securities in privately negotiated transactions, leveraged buyouts, acquisitions and investments in funds managed by external parties. Our real estate investment funds invest in real estate operating companies, debt and equity interests in real estate assets, and other real estate-related investments. In addition, our merchant banking funds include a fund that invests in infrastructure and infrastructure-related assets and companies on a global basis.  

 Since inception, we have raised $118 billion of committed equity capital in these funds, consisting of $96 billion related to our corporate funds and $22 billion related to our real estate funds. As of November 2007, $68 billion of the committed equity capital was funded and the amount of AUM remaining in these funds after distributions was $64 billion.  

 Merchant banking activities generate three primary revenue streams. First, we receive a management fee that is generally a percentage of a fund’s committed capital, invested capital, total gross acquisition cost or asset value. These annual management fees are included in our Asset Management net revenues. Second, Goldman Sachs, as a substantial investor in some of these funds, is allocated its proportionate share of the funds’ unrealized appreciation or depreciation arising from changes in fair value as well as gains and losses upon realization. Third, after a fund has achieved a minimum return for fund investors, we receive an increased share of the fund’s income and gains that is a percentage of the income and gains from the fund’s investments. The second and third of these revenue streams are included in Principal Investments within our Trading and Principal Investments segment.  

 13   
 Securities Services  

 Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing services and securities lending services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high-net-worth individuals worldwide.  

 Prime brokerage services. We offer prime brokerage services to our clients, allowing them the flexibility to trade with most brokers while maintaining a single source for financing and consolidated portfolio reports. Our prime brokerage business provides clearing and custody in 49 markets and provides consolidated multi-currency accounting and reporting, fund administration and other ancillary services.  

 Financing services. A central element of our prime brokerage business involves providing financing to our clients for their securities trading activities through margin and securities loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or other acceptable collateral.  

 Securities lending services. Securities lending services principally involve the borrowing and lending of securities to cover clients’ and Goldman Sachs’ short sales and otherwise to make deliveries into the market. In addition, we are an active participant in the broker-to-broker securities lending business and the third-party agency lending business. Net revenues in securities lending services are, as a general matter, weighted toward our second and third quarters each year due to seasonally higher activity levels in Europe.   

 Global Investment Research   

 Global Investment Research provides fundamental research on companies, industries, economies, currencies and commodities and macro strategy research on a worldwide basis.  

 Global Investment Research employs a team approach that as of November 2007 provided research coverage of over 3,250 companies worldwide and over 50 national economies. This is accomplished by the following departments:  

    •   The Equity Research Departments provide fundamental analysis, earnings forecasts and investment opinions for equity securities;   

    •   The Credit Research Department provides fundamental analysis, forecasts and investment opinions as to investment-grade and high-yield corporate bonds and credit derivatives;   

    •   The Economic Research Department formulates macroeconomic forecasts for economic activity, foreign exchange and interest rates;   

    •   The Commodities Research Department provides research on the commodity markets; and   

    •   The Strategy Research Department provides equity market forecasts, opinions on both asset and industry sector allocation, equity trading strategies, credit trading strategies and options research.    

 Further information regarding research at Goldman Sachs is provided below under “— Regulation — Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States” and “Legal Proceedings — Research Independence Matters” in Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 14   
 Technology   

 Goldman Sachs is committed to the ongoing development, maintenance and use of technology throughout the organization. Our technology initiatives can be broadly categorized into four efforts:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We have tailored our services to our clients by providing them with electronic access to our products and services. In particular, we provide global electronic trading and information distribution capabilities covering many of our fixed income, currency, commodity, equity and mutual fund products around the world.  

 Electronic commerce and technology have changed and will continue to change the ways that securities and other financial products are traded, distributed and settled. This creates both opportunities and challenges for our businesses. We remain committed to being at the forefront of technological innovation in the global capital markets.   

 Business Continuity and Information Security   

 Business continuity and information security are high priorities for Goldman Sachs. Our Business Continuity Program has been developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity in the event of disruptions at the firm’s critical facilities and to comply with the regulatory requirements of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA). The SEC also reviews our Business Continuity Program. The key elements of the program are crisis management, people recovery facilities, business recovery, systems and data recovery, and process improvement. In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect the information assets of the firm and our clients. Safeguards are applied to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information resources.   

 Employees   

 Management believes that a major strength and principal reason for the success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and dedication of our people and the shared sense of being part of a team. We strive to maintain a work environment that fosters professionalism, excellence, diversity, cooperation among our employees worldwide and high standards of business ethics.  

 Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a continuous process, in which training plays an important part. All employees are offered the opportunity to participate in education and periodic seminars that we sponsor at various locations throughout the world. Another important part of instilling the Goldman Sachs culture is our employee review process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and employees they supervise in a 360-degree review process that is integral to our team approach.  

 As of November 2007, we had 30,522 employees, excluding 4,572 employees of certain consolidated entities that are held for investment purposes only. Consolidated entities held for investment purposes include entities that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our principal businesses.  

 15   
 Competition   

 The financial services industry — and all of our businesses — are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. Our competitors are other brokers and dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, insurance companies, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and merchant banks. We compete with some of our competitors globally and with others on a regional, product or niche basis. Our competition is based on a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price.  

 We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete effectively in our businesses will depend upon our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees.  

 Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry, due in part to U.S. federal legislation that has expanded the activities permissible for firms affiliated with a U.S. bank. In particular, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking and securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted in pricing pressure in our investment banking and trading businesses and could result in pricing pressure in other of our businesses.  

 Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face, pressure to retain market share by committing capital to businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate clients increasingly seek such commitments (such as agreements to participate in their commercial paper backstop or other loan facilities) from financial services firms in connection with investment banking and other assignments. We provide these commitments through our William Street entities or through GS Bank USA, primarily for investment-grade clients, or through Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. or our other subsidiaries, primarily for other clients. With respect to most of the William Street commitments, SMFG provides us with credit loss protection that is generally limited to 95% of the first loss we realize on approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will provide protection for 70% of the second loss on such commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion. We also use other financial instruments to mitigate credit risks related to certain William Street commitments not covered by SMFG. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations and Commitments” in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding the William Street entities and for a description of the credit loss protection provided by SMFG. An increasing number of our commitments in connection with investment banking and other assignments do not meet the criteria established for the William Street entities and do not benefit from the SMFG loss protection. These commitments are issued through Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., GS Bank USA or our other subsidiaries.  

 The trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our competitors. This trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. To take advantage of some of our most significant challenges and opportunities, we will have to compete successfully with financial institutions that are larger and better capitalized and that may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history outside the United States.  

 16   
 We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. There has been considerable pressure in the pricing of block trades. Also, equity and debt underwriting discounts, as well as trading spreads, have been under pressure for a number of years and the ability to execute trades electronically, through the Internet and through other alternative trading systems, has increased the pressure on trading commissions. It appears that this trend toward electronic and other “low-touch,” low-commission trading will continue. We believe that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.  

 Regulation   

 Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the securities and commodity futures and options industries, is subject to extensive regulation in the United States and the other countries in which we operate. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies around the world are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of clients participating in those markets. They are not, however, charged with protecting the interests of Goldman Sachs’ shareholders or creditors.  

 Broker-dealers, in particular, are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping, the financing of clients’ purchases, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. A number of our affiliates are regulated by investment advisory laws in the countries in which we operate. See “Risk Factors — Our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for a further discussion of the effect that regulation may have on our businesses.  

 Regulation in the United States  

 In the United States, the SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is subject to regulation by the SEC as a Consolidated Supervised Entity. As such, it is subject to group-wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital standards on a consolidated basis. As part of a Consolidated Supervised Entity, Goldman, Sachs & Co. (GS&Co.), our principal U.S. broker-dealer, is permitted to calculate its regulatory capital requirements in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We may be required or may determine to disclose publicly our group-wide Consolidated Supervised Entity capital ratios on an ongoing basis beginning in mid-2008.  

 GS&Co. is registered as a broker-dealer and as an investment adviser with the SEC and as a broker-dealer in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA and the NYSE, adopt rules that apply to, and examine, broker-dealers such as GS&Co. FINRA was formed when the NASD and the NYSE merged their regulatory operations, although the NYSE continues to have oversight over NYSE-related market activities. In addition, state securities and other regulators also have regulatory or oversight authority over GS&Co. Similarly, our businesses are also subject to regulation by various non-U.S. governmental and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in virtually all countries where we have offices. Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P. (GSEC) and two of its subsidiaries are registered U.S. broker-dealers and are regulated by the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA. Goldman Sachs Financial Markets, L.P. is registered with the SEC as an OTC derivatives dealer and conducts certain OTC derivatives businesses.  

 The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the United States is subject to regulation under the Commodity Exchange Act. The Commodity Futures Trading Commission is the federal agency charged with the administration of the Commodity Exchange Act. Several of Goldman Sachs’ subsidiaries, including GS&Co. and GSEC, are registered with the CFTC and act as futures  

 17   
 commission merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and are subject to the Commodity Exchange Act. The rules and regulations of various self-regulatory organizations, such as the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, other futures exchanges and the National Futures Association, also govern the commodity futures and commodity options businesses of these entities.  

 GS&Co. and GSEC are subject to Rule 15c3-1 of the SEC and Rule 1.17 of the CFTC, which specify uniform minimum net capital requirements and also effectively require that a significant part of the registrants’ assets be kept in relatively liquid form. GS&Co. and GSEC have elected to compute their minimum capital requirements in accordance with the “Alternative Net Capital Requirement” as permitted by Rule 15c3-1. As of November 2007, GS&Co. and GSEC had net capital in excess of their minimum capital requirements. In addition to its alternative minimum net capital requirements, GS&Co. is also required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1. GS&Co. is required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of November 2007, GS&Co. had tentative net capital and net capital in excess of both the minimum and the notification requirements. These net capital requirements may have the effect of prohibiting these entities from distributing or withdrawing capital and may require prior notice to the SEC for certain withdrawals of capital. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Goldman Sachs’ three limited purpose trust companies operate under state or federal law. They are not permitted to and do not accept deposits (other than as incidental to their trust activities) or make loans and, as a result, are not considered to be banks for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, nor are they insured by the FDIC or subject to the Community Reinvestment Act. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company, N.A., a national bank that is limited to fiduciary activities, is regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and is a member bank of the Federal Reserve System. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company, a New York limited purpose trust company, is regulated by the New York State Banking Department. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company of Delaware, a Delaware limited purpose trust company, is regulated by the Office of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner.  

 Goldman Sachs has established GS Bank USA, a wholly owned industrial bank, to extend credit and to take deposits, other than demand deposits. GS Bank USA is regulated by the FDIC and the State of Utah Department of Financial Institutions and is subject to minimum capital requirements. As of November 2007, GS Bank USA was in compliance with all regulatory capital requirements. Because it does not accept demand deposits, GS Bank USA is not considered to be a bank for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. The deposits maintained at GS Bank USA are insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by law.  

 Our specialist businesses are subject to extensive regulation by a number of securities exchanges. The rules of these exchanges generally require our specialists to maintain orderly markets in the securities in which they are specialists.  

 J. Aron & Company is authorized by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to sell wholesale physical power at market-based rates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer, J. Aron & Company is subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act and FERC regulations and to the oversight of FERC. As a result of our investing activities, GS&Co. is also an “exempt holding company” under FERC rules.  

 In addition, as a result of our power-related activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, as discussed under “Risk Factors — Our power generation interests and related activities subject us to extensive regulation, as well as environmental and other risks associated with power generation activities” in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 18   
 Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state insurance regulation and oversight in the states in which they are domiciled and in the other states in which they are licensed, and we are subject to oversight as an insurance holding company in states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled. In addition, a number of our other businesses, including our lending and mortgage businesses, require us to obtain licenses, adhere to applicable regulations and be subject to the oversight of various regulators in the states in which we conduct these businesses.  

 The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities. Through these and other provisions, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 seeks to promote the identification of parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious activities. Anti-money laundering laws outside the United States contain some similar provisions. The obligation of financial institutions, including Goldman Sachs, to identify their clients, to monitor for and report suspicious transactions, to respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and to share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls that have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs, and any failure with respect to our programs in this area could subject us to substantial liability and regulatory fines.  

 Regulation Outside the United States  

 Goldman Sachs provides investment services in and from the United Kingdom under the regulation of the Financial Services Authority (FSA). Goldman Sachs International (GSI), our regulated U.K. broker-dealer, is subject to the capital requirements of the FSA. As of November 2007, GSI was in compliance with the FSA capital requirements. Other subsidiaries, including Goldman Sachs International Bank, are also regulated by the FSA.  

 Goldman Sachs has established two wholly owned banks in Dublin, Ireland. These banks are regulated by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. Because our Irish banks have no branches, agencies or banking subsidiaries in the United States, they do not subject Goldman Sachs to the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act. As of the commencement of business in December 2007, these banks were in compliance with all regulatory capital requirements.  

 Various other Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking, insurance and securities regulatory authorities of the European countries in which they operate, including, among others, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and the Bundesbank in Germany, Banque de France and the Autorité des Marchés Financiers in France, Banca d’Italia and the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy, the Federal Financial Markets Service in Russia and the Swiss Federal Banking Commission. Certain Goldman Sachs entities are also regulated by the European securities, derivatives and commodities exchanges of which they are members.  

 The investment services that are subject to oversight by the FSA and other regulators within the European Union are regulated in accordance with national laws, many of which implement European Union directives requiring, among other things, compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer protection requirements and market conduct and trade reporting rules. These standards, requirements and rules are similarly implemented, under the same directives, throughout the European Union.  

 On November 1, 2007, the national implementing legislation to the European Union’s Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (Directive 2004/39/EC, known as MiFID) became effective in countries such as the United Kingdom, Germany and France. MiFID affects several of our subsidiaries by imposing detailed pan-European requirements in areas such as internal organization (including conflict management, outsourcing and recordkeeping), best execution, real-time disclosure of completed transactions in shares, quoting obligations for internalized client orders in shares, transaction reporting  

 19   
 to regulators, client classification and documentation, disclosure of fees and other payments received from or paid to third parties in relation to investment services and the regulation of investment services related to commodity derivatives. The lack of detailed regulatory practice under this regime could lead to regulatory uncertainties.  

 Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanese broker-dealer, is subject to the capital requirements of Japan’s Financial Services Agency. As of November 2007, GSJCL was in compliance with its capital adequacy requirements. GSJCL is also regulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the Japan Securities Dealers Association, the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan.  

 Also in Asia, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Korean Financial Supervisory Service and the Securities and Exchange Board of India, among others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and also have capital standards and other requirements comparable to the rules of the SEC.  

 Various Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and regulatory authorities of other non-U.S. countries in which Goldman Sachs operates, including, among others, Brazil and Dubai. In addition, certain of our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the Bermuda Registrar of Companies.  

 Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States  

 The U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions and other state regulators in the United States, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease and desist orders, or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer or its directors, officers or employees. From time to time, our subsidiaries have been subject to investigations and proceedings, and sanctions have been imposed for infractions of various regulations relating to our activities, none of which has had a material adverse effect on us or our businesses.  

 The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has issued the Basel II capital standards, which are designed to promote enhanced risk management practices among large, international financial services firms by aligning regulatory capital requirements more closely with the underlying risks faced by these firms. GSI, as well as our other subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe, became subject to the Basel II requirements on January 1, 2008. The Consolidated Supervised Entity rules described above under “— Regulation in the United States,” which provide for group-wide supervision, are consistent with Basel II. Complying with these new standards has required us to develop and apply new and sophisticated measurement techniques to determine our regulatory capital adequacy. As an increasing number of financial institutions become subject to Basel II, new interpretations may arise, and harmonization among regulators could then impact the regulatory capital standards under which we operate as a Consolidated Supervised Entity, as well as the requirements for some of our regulated subsidiaries.  

 The research areas of investment banks have been and remain the subject of regulatory scrutiny. The SEC, the NYSE and FINRA have adopted rules governing research analysts, including rules imposing restrictions on the interaction between equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at member securities firms. Various non-U.S. jurisdictions have imposed both substantive and disclosure-based requirements with respect to research and may impose additional regulations. In 2003, GS&Co. agreed to a global settlement with certain federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations to resolve investigations into equity research analysts’ alleged conflicts of interest. The global settlement includes certain restrictions and undertakings that have imposed additional costs and limitations on the conduct of our businesses, including restrictions on the interaction between research and investment banking areas.  

 20   
 In connection with the research settlement, we have also subscribed to a voluntary initiative imposing restrictions on the allocation of shares in initial public offerings to executives and directors of public companies. The FSA in the United Kingdom has imposed requirements on the conduct of the allocation process in equity and fixed income securities offerings (including initial public offerings and secondary distributions). The SEC, the FSA, the NYSE, FINRA and other U.S. or non-U.S. regulators may in the future adopt additional and more stringent rules with respect to offering procedures and the management of conflicts of interest, and we cannot fully predict the effect that any new requirements will have on our business.  

 Our investment management businesses are subject to significant regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets and our management of client funds.  

 As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based upon its underlying risk.  

 Certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union or other jurisdictions and/or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage.   

 Item 1A. Risk Factors