Item 1A. Risk Factors   

 We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses.  

 Our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally.  

 Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. While we have achieved record earnings per common share in each of our last four fiscal years, reflecting a favorable trading and investing environment and an increase in investment banking activity, an adverse change in these market conditions may adversely affect our results of operations.  

 Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, and these conditions may change suddenly and dramatically. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused by: outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors, have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability in many ways, including the following:  

    •   Increasing or high interest rates and/or widening credit spreads, especially if such changes are rapid, may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses, and may affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or hold. For example, beginning in the second half of 2007, difficulties in the mortgage and broader credit markets in the United States and elsewhere resulted in a relatively sudden and substantial decrease in the    

 21   
      availability of credit and a corresponding increase in funding costs. Credit spreads widened significantly, affecting volatility and liquidity in the debt and equity markets, particularly in the markets for mortgage-related securities and non-investment-grade debt securities and loans. This negatively impacted prices of these securities and loans (as well as commitments for these loans), and, to the extent that we sought to do so, our ability to sell these securities and loans (and loan commitments). The sudden decline in liquidity and prices of these types of securities and loans made it generally more difficult to value them. These conditions have persisted through the end of 2007 and we cannot predict how long these conditions will exist or how our businesses may be affected.    

    •   We have been committing increasing amounts of capital in many of our businesses and generally maintain large trading, specialist and investing positions. Market fluctuations and volatility may adversely affect the value of those positions, including, but not limited to, our interest rate and credit products, currency, commodity and equity positions, and our merchant banking investments, or may reduce our willingness to enter into new transactions. From time to time, we have incurred significant trading losses in periods of market turbulence. Conversely, certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses.   

    •   Increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, such as occurred in the second half of 2007, can affect our ability to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. We seek to finance our less liquid assets on a secured basis and disruptions in the credit markets are likely to make it harder and more expensive to fund these assets. In difficult credit markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our business activities. This could cause us to curtail our business activities and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability.   

    •   Our investment banking business is affected by changes in market conditions. Industry-wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and mergers and acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our revenues and, because we may be unable to reduce expenses correspondingly, our profit margins. In particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues are derived from our participation in large transactions, a decrease in the number of large transactions due to uncertain or unfavorable market conditions may adversely affect our investment banking business. Our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. The lack of available credit or increased cost of credit may adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients’ merger and acquisition transactions — particularly large transactions — and adversely affect our financial advisory and underwriting businesses.   

    •   We receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients’ portfolios and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of our clients’ portfolios. Reductions in the level of the equity markets or increases in interest rates tend to reduce the value of our clients’ portfolios, which in turn may reduce the fees we earn for managing assets. Increases in interest rates or attractive conditions in other investments could cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products. Even in the absence of uncertain or unfavorable economic or market conditions, investment performance by our asset management business below the performance of benchmarks or competitors could result in a decline in assets under management, including through redemptions, and in the incentive and management fees we receive and might make it more difficult to attract new investors.    

 22   
    •   Market volatility has been relatively low in recent years, although it generally increased in the second half of 2007. An increase in volatility increases our measured risk, which might cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to reduce certain of our business activities. In such circumstances, we may not be able to reduce our positions or our exposure in a timely, cost-effective way or in a manner sufficient to offset the increase in measured risk.   

    •   The volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and as a specialist or market maker may decline, which would reduce the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. In our specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. This may result in trading losses and an increased need for liquidity. Weakness in global equity markets and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple exchanges could adversely impact our trading businesses and impair the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets.   

    •   The emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world. In addition, unforeseen or catastrophic events, including health emergencies, terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could expose our insurance subsidiaries to significant losses.    

 We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies.  

 We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review processes and other mechanisms. Our trading risk management process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses.  

 The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators, and in times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or conversely previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. In the past, these types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In these cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants. In addition, we are increasingly investing our own capital in our alternative investment and merchant banking funds, and limitations on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures relating to these investments.  

 For a further discussion of our risk management policies and procedures, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets, by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an inability of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. to access funds from its subsidiaries.  

 Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access secured and/or unsecured debt markets, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or  

 23   
 unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we are experiencing greater liquidity risk. The financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are increasingly complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. Growth of our proprietary investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity.  

 Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral. Termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements.  

 The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including GS&Co., are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. needs to make payments on obligations, including debt obligations, or dividend payments.  

 Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets or whose securities or obligations we hold.  

 The amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, as has the breadth and size of the entities to which we have credit exposures. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and/or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. While in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral from counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. The termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral tend to increase in times of market stress and illiquidity.  

 In addition, as part of our clearing business, we finance our client positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are  

 24   
 difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect Goldman Sachs.  

 Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses.  

 Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market-making, proprietary trading and investing, block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending businesses. This risk may increase to the extent we expand our proprietary trading and investing businesses or commit capital to facilitate customer-driven business. The number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. For example, we regularly enter into large transactions as part of our trading businesses, including large blocks of securities sold in block trades rather than on a marketed basis. Moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for our competitors. In addition, we extend large commitments as part of our credit origination activities. Our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions could negatively affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, as well as the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or loans.  

 While our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment funds and other institutional clients, resulting in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. In the ordinary course of business, we may also be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer.  

 The financial services industry is highly competitive.  

 The financial services industry — and all of our businesses — are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We believe that we will continue to experience pricing pressures in the future as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry. U.S. federal legislation, which significantly expanded the activities permissible for firms affiliated with a U.S. bank, has accelerated this consolidation and further increased competition. This trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of our competitors. This trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. As we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to expand.  

 Pricing and other competitive pressures in our investment banking business, as well as our other businesses, have continued to increase. For example, the trend in the underwriting business toward multiple book runners and co-managers handling transactions, where previously there would have been a single book runner, has adversely affected our business and reduced our revenues. In addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. In particular, corporate clients sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. Finally, competitive pressures and other industry factors, including the increasing use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading, have caused and could continue to cause a reduction in commissions and spreads.  

 25   
 We face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and expose us to new asset classes and new markets.  

 A number of our recent and planned business initiatives and expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client base and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. For example, in recent years we have begun providing loans to small and mid-sized businesses, originating and acquiring life insurance policies and originating residential mortgages, and we are increasingly transacting business and investing in new regions, including a wider range of emerging markets. In addition, we are increasingly offering complex structured products, including securitized derivatives, and alternative investments to a wider investor base, including retail investors, both directly and through third-party distribution channels. Furthermore, a number of our businesses, including our proprietary investing and merchant banking activities, cause us to directly or indirectly own interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership and operation of, public services, such as airports, toll roads, shipping ports, electric power generation facilities and other commodities infrastructure components, both within and outside the United States. Recent market conditions are likely to lead to an increase in opportunities to acquire distressed assets, and we may determine opportunistically to increase our exposure to these types of assets. These business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including reputational concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in which these assets are being operated or held.  

 Derivative transactions may expose us to unexpected risk and potential losses.  

 We are party to a large number of derivative transactions, including credit derivatives that require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation and may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation through the physical settlement of other transactions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we may not be able to obtain the security, loan or other obligation within the required contractual time frame for delivery, particularly if default rates increase from the historically low levels over the past several years. This could cause us to forfeit the payments due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as increased costs to the firm.  

 Derivative contracts and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties on a timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed, we are subject to heightened credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. In addition, as new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs.  

 A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause losses.  

 Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. These transactions, as well as information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. As our client base and our geographical reach expands, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. Our financial, accounting,  

 26   
 data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses.  

 We also face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions, and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we will increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients’ systems. In recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. Any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk.  

 Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by Goldman Sachs or third parties with which we conduct business. These disruptions may occur, for example, as a result of events that affect only the buildings of Goldman Sachs or such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those buildings are located. Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including the New York metropolitan area, London, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Bangalore, work in close proximity to one another, in one or more buildings. Notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest concentration of our employees are in the New York metropolitan area, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a catastrophic event impacting our New York metropolitan area offices could very negatively affect our business. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend on communication or travel.  

 Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations, which could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.  

 We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. We have discussed and worked with clients and counterparties to develop secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our clients and counterparties. An interception or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a client or counterparty could result in legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm. We are exposed to similar risks arising from the interception of personal, confidential or proprietary information sent to or received from, or the misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information by, vendors, service  

 27   
 providers and other third parties who may receive such information from us, and our efforts to ensure that these third parties have appropriate controls in place may not be successful.  

 Conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify and deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our businesses.  

 Our reputation is one of our most important assets. As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client base, we increasingly have to address potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client or our own proprietary investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client, as well as situations where one or more of our businesses have access to material non-public information that may not be shared with other businesses within the firm.  

 The SEC, the NYSE, FINRA, other federal and state regulators and regulators outside the United States, including in the United Kingdom and Japan, have announced their intention to increase their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. There have been complaints filed against financial institutions, including Goldman Sachs, alleging the violation of antitrust laws arising from their joint participation in certain leveraged buyouts, referred to as “club deals,” as discussed under “Legal Proceedings — Private Equity-Sponsored Acquisitions Litigation” in Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, a number of class action complaints have also been filed in connection with certain specific “club deal” transactions which name the relevant “club deal” participants among the defendants, including Goldman Sachs affiliates in several cases, and generally allege that the transactions constitute a breach of fiduciary duty by the target company and that the “club” participants aided and abetted such breach. We cannot predict the outcome of the litigation to which we are a party, and we may become subject to further litigation or regulatory scrutiny in the future in this regard.  

 We have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to identify and address conflicts of interest, including those designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among our businesses. However, appropriately identifying and dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify and deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions.  

 Our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the world.  

 Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the financial services industry, is subject to extensive regulation in jurisdictions around the world. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. Among other things, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some of our business activities or subject to limitations or conditions on our business activities.  

 New laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or those of our clients may also adversely affect our businesses. Regulatory changes could lead to business disruptions, could require us to change certain of our business practices and could expose us to additional costs and liabilities as well as reputational harm. For a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our businesses are subject, see “Business — Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Our firm is subject to regulatory capital requirements at a number of levels, as described above under “Business — Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a Consolidated Supervised Entity, we are subject to minimum capital standards on a consolidated basis. A number of our subsidiaries, including GS&Co., GSEC, GSI, GS Bank USA, our Irish banking entities, GSJCL and Goldman, Sachs & Co. oHG, are separately subject to their own minimum capital  

 28   
 requirements imposed by various regulatory bodies. Complying with these requirements may cause us to limit our business activities or require us to liquidate assets or otherwise raise capital in a manner that adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. While we currently disclose these ratios to the SEC and the FSA and to rating agencies, we may be required or may determine to disclose publicly our group-wide Consolidated Supervised Entity capital ratios beginning in mid-2008. It is unclear how our ratios will compare to those of our competitors, or how our investors, counterparties or clients may react to any difference, positive or negative, in such ratios.  

 Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. The industry has experienced increased scrutiny from a variety of regulators, both within and outside the United States. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions. For example, regulators, both within and outside the United States, continue to scrutinize complex, structured finance transactions and have brought enforcement actions against a number of financial institutions in connection with such transactions. We seek to create innovative solutions to address our clients’ needs, and we have entered into, and continue to enter into, structured transactions with clients.  

 This environment has led some of our clients to be less willing to engage in transactions that may carry a risk of increased scrutiny by regulators and has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms, including our firm, and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. This environment also has led us and our competitors to modify transaction structures and, in some cases, to limit or cease our execution of some types of transactions. While we have policies and procedures in place that are intended to ensure that the transactions we enter into are appropriately reviewed and comply with applicable laws and regulations, it is possible that certain transactions could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions or that the regulatory scrutiny of, and litigation in connection with, transactions will make our clients less willing to enter into these transactions with us, and will adversely affect our business.  

 Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against Goldman Sachs could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to Goldman Sachs, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects.  

 We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. See “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are involved.  

 There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases.  

 The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technology may adversely affect our business and may increase competition.  

 Technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with new challenges. Securities, futures and options transactions are increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue and probably accelerate. Some of these alternative trading systems compete with our trading businesses, including our specialist businesses, and we may experience continued competitive pressures in these and other areas. In addition, the increased use by our clients of low-cost electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to trading  

 29   
 markets could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. As our clients increasingly use our systems to trade directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. The NYSE’s adoption and continued refinement of its hybrid market for trading securities may increase pressure on our Equities business as customers execute more of their NYSE-related trades electronically. We have invested significant resources into the development of electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these systems will yield an adequate return on our investment, particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from electronic trades.  

 Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees.  

 Competition from within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds, for qualified employees is intense. This is particularly the case in emerging markets, where we are often competing for qualified employees with entities that have a significantly greater presence or more extensive experience in the region. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability to compete effectively in our businesses and to expand into new businesses and geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. In addition, current and future laws (including laws relating to immigration and outsourcing) may restrict our ability to move responsibilities or personnel from one jurisdiction to another. This may impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or potential efficiencies.  

 Our power generation interests and related activities subject us to extensive regulation, as well as environmental and other risks associated with power generation activities.  

 The power generation facilities that we own and those that we operate, as well as our other power-related activities, are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water quality, waste management, natural resources, site remediation and health and safety. In the past several years, intensified scrutiny of the energy market by federal, state and local authorities and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal proceedings involving companies engaged in electric power generation and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas.  

 In addition, we may incur substantial costs in complying with current or future laws and regulations relating to power generation, including having to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, payment of emission fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of, permits and licenses at our power generation facilities. In certain instances, compliance with applicable laws and regulations may require us to cease or curtail operations of one or more of our power generation facilities.  

 Our power generation facilities are also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. We may not have insurance against these risks or other risks, including environmental risks, that such facilities face, and, in cases in which we do have insurance, the insurance proceeds may be inadequate to cover our losses. Our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory proceedings, particularly those related to environmental matters, arising out of our power generation business, as well as by the occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events or negative publicity associated with our power-related activities.  

 The operation of our power generation facilities may be disrupted for many reasons, many of which are outside our control, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines or other equipment or processes, and performance below expected levels of output  

 30   
 or efficiency. In addition, these facilities could be adversely affected by the failure of any of our third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their contractual obligations, including the failure to obtain raw materials necessary for operation at reasonable prices. Market conditions or other factors could cause a failure to satisfy or obtain waivers under agreements with third parties, including lenders and utilities, which impose significant obligations on our subsidiaries that own such facilities. The occurrence of any of such events may prevent the affected facilities from performing under applicable power sales agreements, may impair their operations or financial results and may result in litigation or other reputational harm.  

 In conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.  

 In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries and many of the transactions in which we are involved are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in compliance with the application of local laws in a particular market or our failure to develop effective working relationships with local regulators could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases.  

 Our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets, and we expect this trend to continue. Various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies. The possible effects of any of these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally.   

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   

 There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

 Item 2. Properties