Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Overview  

Mattel’s vision is “creating the future of play.” Mattel’s objectives are to grow its share in the marketplace, continue to improve its operating margins, and create long-term stockholder value. To achieve these objectives, management has established the following strategies:  

The first strategy is to deliver consistent growth by investing in its core brands, optimizing entertainment partnerships, building new franchises, and working to expand and leverage its international footprint.  

The second strategy is to optimize operating margins through sustaining gross margins of about 50% over the long-term, and delivering on cost savings initiatives.  

The third strategy is to generate significant cash flow and continue its disciplined, opportunistic, and value-enhancing deployment.  

2014 Overview  

Mattel’s 2014 results were disappointing. Revenue and profitability did not meet management’s expectations, as Mattel’s performance fell short in three areas. Mattel’s product innovation was inconsistent, resulting in brand propositions that were not compelling enough to consumers. The doll category environment was dynamic and challenging and, although Mattel experienced success with the Disney Princess line, it did not drive significant overall growth in the doll category where Mattel’s doll brands make up approximately 40% of its revenue. Additionally, global retail execution fell short of management’s expectations, especially in North America.  

Mattel’s 2014 financial highlights include the following:  

   •    Net sales decreased 7% from $6.48 billion in 2013 to $6.02 billion in 2014.  

   •    Gross profit as a percentage of net sales for 2014 was 49.8%, a decrease of 380 basis points from 2013.  

   •    Operating income was $653.7 million in 2014, or 10.9% of net sales, compared to the prior year’s operating income of $1.17 billion in 2013, or 18.0% of net sales.  

   •    Mattel’s Operational Excellence 3.0 program resulted in gross cost savings before severance charges and investments of approximately $119 million, or approximately $74 million in net cost savings.  

   •    Mattel paid total annual dividends of $1.52 per share, an increase of 6% from the prior year, and repurchased 4.9 million shares of its common stock.  

2015 and Beyond  

In 2015 and beyond, Mattel intends to utilize its unmatched portfolio of brands, global scale of infrastructure, capable management team, and strong balance sheet to work towards revitalizing its business and to deepen its connection with children and parents around the world. In addition, Mattel will launch Funding Our Future, its next cost savings program, where it will look to simplify its global operations through structural and process improvements and supply chain optimization.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Results of Operations  

2014 Compared to 2013  

Consolidated Results  

Net sales for 2014 were $6.02 billion, a 7% decrease, as compared to $6.48 billion in 2013, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. Net income for 2014 was $498.9 million, or $1.45 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $903.9 million, or $2.58 per diluted share, in 2013. Net income for 2014 was negatively impacted by lower sales volume, lower gross margins, and higher other selling and administrative expenses, partially offset by lower income taxes.  

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated results for 2014 and 2013 (in millions, except percentage and basis point information):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales  

Net sales for 2014 were $6.02 billion, a 7% decrease, as compared to $6.48 billion in 2013, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points.  

29  

Table of Contents 

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated gross sales by brand for 2014 and 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross sales were $6.72 billion in 2014, down $399.4 million or 6%, as compared to $7.12 billion in 2013, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. The decrease in gross sales was due to lower sales of Entertainment, Fisher-Price Friends, Barbie, and Core Fisher-Price products, partially offset by Construction and Arts & Crafts products. Of the 20% decrease in Entertainment gross sales, 5% was due to lower sales of Max Steel products, 4% was due to lower sales of Superman products, 4% was due to lower sales of CARS products, and 2% was due to lower sales of kids’ games. Of the 17% decrease in Fisher-Price Friends gross sales, 6% was due to lower sales of Disney Jake and the Never Land Pirates products, 4% was due to lower sales of Nickelodeon products, and 3% was due to lower sales of Mike the Knight® products. The 16% decrease in Barbie gross sales was primarily due to competition within the doll category and brand propositions that were not compelling enough to consumers. Of the 12% decrease in Core Fisher-Price gross sales, 4% was due to lower sales of Little People products and 3% was due to lower sales of Imaginext products. The increase in Construction and Arts & Crafts gross sales was due to initial sales of MEGA Brands products.  

Cost of Sales  

Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 50.2% in 2014, as compared to 46.4% in 2013. Cost of sales increased by $16.8 million, or 1%, from $3.01 billion in 2013 to $3.02 billion in 2014, as compared to a 7% decrease in net sales. Within cost of sales, product and other costs increased by $21.5 million, or 1%, from $2.42 billion in 2013 to $2.44 billion in 2014; royalty expenses decreased $4.5 million, or 2%, from $246.9 million in 2013 to $242.4 million in 2014; and freight and logistics expenses decreased by $0.2 million from $337.3 million in 2013 to $337.1 million in 2014.  

Gross Profit  

Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased from 53.6% in 2013 to 49.8% in 2014. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the impact of the MEGA Brands acquisition, including the impact of the inventory fair value markup above historical cost, efforts to improve consumer  

30  

Table of Contents 

 takeaway, the impact of lower sales volume on Mattel’s fixed cost manufacturing and distribution base, and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by price increases and Operational Excellence 3.0 savings offset by higher input costs.  

Advertising and Promotion Expenses  

Advertising and promotion expenses primarily consist of: (i) media costs, which primarily include the media, planning, and buying fees for television, print, and online advertisements, (ii) non-media costs, which primarily include commercial and website production, merchandising, and promotional costs, (iii) retail advertising costs, which primarily include consumer direct catalogs, newspaper inserts, fliers, and mailers and (iv) generic advertising costs, which primarily include trade show costs. Advertising and promotion expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 12.2% in 2014 from 11.6% in 2013, primarily as a result of lower sales volume.  

Other Selling and Administrative Expenses  

Other selling and administrative expenses were $1.61 billion in 2014, or 26.8% of net sales, as compared to $1.56 billion in 2013, or 24.1% of net sales. The $53.5 million increase in other selling and administrative expenses was primarily due to approximately $53 million of transaction, integration, and amortization costs associated with the MEGA Brands acquisition, the addition of MEGA Brands’ ongoing other selling and administrative expenses of approximately $51 million, and approximately $25 million of incremental severance and other termination-related costs, partially offset by lower employee-related expenses, including incentive and equity compensation, of approximately $51 million, and Operational Excellence 3.0 gross savings of approximately $35 million.  

Non-Operating Items  

Interest expense increased by $0.8 million to $79.3 million in 2014, as compared to $78.5 million in 2013, primarily due to higher average long-term borrowings, partially offset by lower average interest rates. Interest income increased by $1.8 million to $7.4 million in 2014, as compared to $5.6 million in 2013, primarily due to higher average invested cash.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2014 was 15.0% as compared to 17.8% in 2013. The 2014 and 2013 income tax provisions include net tax benefits of $42.6 million and $32.2 million, respectively. The 2014 net tax benefits primarily relate to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, partially offset by a tax charge related to a 2014 tax restructuring for the HIT Entertainment and MEGA Brands operations. The 2013 net tax benefits primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.  

31  

Table of Contents 

North America Segment  

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the North America segment for 2014 and 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross sales for the North America segment were $3.01 billion in 2014, down $169.6 million or 5%, as compared to $3.18 billion in 2013, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. The decrease in the North America segment gross sales was due to lower sales of Fisher-Price Friends, Entertainment, and Core Fisher-Price products, partially offset by Construction and Arts & Crafts products. Of the 23% decrease in Fisher-Price Friends gross sales, 6% was due to lower sales of Nickelodeon products, 5% was due to lower sales of Thomas and Friends products, 5% was due to lower sales of Disney Jake and the Never Land Pirates products, and 4% was due to lower sales of Mike the Knight products. Of the 17% decrease in Entertainment gross sales, 6% was due to lower sales of Superman products, 5% was due to lower sales of CARS products, 4% was due to lower sales of Radica products, and 3% was due to lower sales of Max Steel products. Of the 16% decrease in Core Fisher-Price gross sales, 6% was due to lower sales of Little People products and 4% was due to lower sales of Imaginext products. The increase in Construction and Arts & Crafts gross sales was due to initial sales of MEGA Brands products. Cost of sales increased 3% in 2014, compared to a 7% decrease in net sales, primarily due to higher product and other costs, partially offset by lower royalty expenses. Gross margins decreased due to the impact of the MEGA Brands acquisition, including the impact of the inventory fair value markup above historical cost, efforts to improve consumer takeaway, the impact of lower sales volume on Mattel’s fixed cost manufacturing and distribution base, and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by price increases and Operational Excellence 3.0 savings offset by higher input costs.  

North America segment income decreased by 36% to $459.8 million in 2014, as compared to $723.8 million in 2013, due to lower gross profit and higher other selling and administrative expenses.  

32  

Table of Contents 

International Segment  

The following table provides a summary of percentage changes in gross sales within the International segment in 2014 versus 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the International segment for 2014 and 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross sales for the International segment were $3.06 billion in 2014, down $216.3 million or 7%, as compared to $3.28 billion in 2013, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 4 percentage points. The decrease in the International segment gross sales was due to lower sales of Entertainment and Barbie products, partially offset by Construction and Arts & Crafts products. Of the 22% decrease in Entertainment gross sales, 7% was due to lower sales of Max Steel products, 5% was due to lower sales of kids’ games, 3% was due to lower sales of CARS products, 3% was due to lower sales of Superman products, and 3% was due to lower sales of Disney Planes products. The 21% decrease in Barbie gross sales was primarily due to competition within the doll category and brand propositions that were not compelling enough to consumers. The increase in Construction and Arts & Crafts gross sales was due to initial sales of MEGA Brands products. Cost of sales remained flat in 2014, as compared to a 9% decrease in net sales, as lower product and other costs and lower freight and logistics expenses were offset by higher royalty expenses. Gross margins decreased due to efforts to improve consumer takeaway, the impact of the MEGA Brands acquisition, including the impact of the inventory fair value markup above historical cost, the impact of lower sales volume on Mattel’s fixed cost manufacturing and distribution base, unfavorable product mix, and higher input costs offset by price increases.  

International segment income decreased by 42% to $359.9 million in 2014, as compared to $622.9 million in 2013, primarily due to lower gross profit and higher other selling and administrative expenses.  

33  

Table of Contents 

American Girl Segment  

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the American Girl segment for 2014 and 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross sales for the American Girl segment were $645.3 million in 2014, down $13.5 million or 2%, as compared to $658.8 million in 2013, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. Of the 2% decrease in American Girl Brands gross sales, 3% was due to lower sales of BeForever products. Cost of sales increased 2% in 2014, as compared to a 2% decrease in net sales, primarily due to higher product and other costs. Gross margins decreased as a result of efforts to improve consumer takeaway.  

American Girl segment income decreased by 18% to $113.6 million in 2014, as compared to $138.0 million in 2013, primarily due to lower gross profit and higher advertising and promotion expenses.  

2013 Compared to 2012  

Consolidated Results  

Net sales for 2013 were $6.48 billion, a 1% increase, as compared to $6.42 billion in 2012, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Net income for 2013 was $903.9 million, or $2.58 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $776.5 million, or $2.22 per diluted share, in 2012. As compared to 2012, net income for 2013 was positively impacted by lower other selling and administrative expenses due to a 2012 litigation charge of $137.8 million, arising out of the litigation between Mattel and MGA Entertainment, Inc. (the “Litigation Charge”), and higher gross margins. In 2012, the Litigation Charge reduced net income by $87.1 million, or $0.25 per share.  

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated results for 2013 and 2012 (in millions, except percentage and basis point information):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

34  

Table of Contents 

Sales  

Net sales for 2013 were $6.48 billion, a 1% increase, as compared to $6.42 billion in 2012, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point.  

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated gross sales by brand for 2013 and 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross sales were $7.12 billion in 2013, up $65.2 million or 1%, as compared to $7.05 billion in 2012, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. The increase in gross sales was due to higher sales of Other Girls products, partially offset by lower sales of Core Fisher-Price products. Of the 25% increase in Other Girls gross sales, 20% was due to higher sales of Monster High products and 5% was due to the initial launch of the Ever After High product line. The 9% decrease in Core Fisher-Price gross sales reflected product innovation not being strong enough to drive growth, along with lower effectiveness of in-store, commercial, and promotional activities.  

Cost of Sales  

Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 46.4% in 2013, as compared to 46.9% in 2012. Cost of sales was flat at $3.01 billion in 2013 and 2012, as compared to a 1% increase in net sales. Within cost of sales, product and other costs decreased by $16.8 million, or 1%, from $2.44 billion in 2012 to $2.42 billion in 2013; royalty expenses increased $6.7 million, or 3%, from $240.2 million in 2012 to $246.9 million in 2013; and freight and logistics expenses increased by $4.4 million, or 1%, from $332.9 million in 2012 to $337.3 million in 2013.  

Gross Profit  

Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased to 53.6% in 2013 from 53.1% in 2012. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to Operational Excellence 3.0 savings, favorable product mix, and price increases offset by higher input costs, partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Advertising and Promotion Expenses  

Advertising and promotion expenses primarily consist of: (i) media costs, which primarily include the media, planning, and buying fees for television, print, and online advertisements, (ii) non-media costs, which primarily include commercial and website production, merchandising, and promotional costs, (iii) retail advertising costs, which primarily include consumer direct catalogs, newspaper inserts, fliers, and mailers and (iv) generic advertising costs, which primarily include trade show costs. Advertising and promotion expenses as a percentage of net sales increased to 11.6% in 2013 from 11.2% in 2012, primarily as a result of lower than expected fourth quarter sales and higher non-media and generic advertising spending.  

Other Selling and Administrative Expenses  

Other selling and administrative expenses were $1.56 billion in 2013, or 24.1% of net sales, as compared to $1.67 billion in 2012, or 26.0% of net sales. The decrease in other selling and administrative expenses was primarily due to the Litigation Charge of $137.8 million in 2012 and lower incentive compensation expense of approximately $43 million, partially offset by higher other employee-related expenses and investments in strategic initiatives of approximately $78 million and an asset impairment charge of approximately $14 million.  

Non-Operating Items  

Interest expense decreased by $10.3 million to $78.5 million in 2013, as compared to $88.8 million in 2012, primarily due to lower average interest rates related to long-term borrowings.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2013 was flat with 2012 at 17.8%. The 2013 and 2012 income tax provisions include net tax benefits of $32.2 million and $16.0 million, respectively, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.  

North America Segment  

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the North America segment for 2013 and 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

36  

Table of Contents 

Gross sales for the North America segment were $3.18 billion in 2013, down $149.0 million or 4%, as compared to $3.33 billion in 2012, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. The decrease in the North America segment gross sales was due to lower sales of Barbie, Core Fisher-Price, and Wheels products, partially offset by higher sales of Other Girls products. The 12% decrease in Barbie gross sales reflected product innovation not being strong enough to drive growth, increased competition within the doll category, along with lower effectiveness of in-store, commercial, and promotional activities. The 11% decrease in Core Fisher-Price gross sales reflected product innovation not being strong enough to drive growth, along with lower effectiveness of in-store, commercial, and promotional activities. Of the 11% decrease in Wheels gross sales, 8% was due to lower sales of radio-controlled vehicles and Matchbox products, and 3% was due to lower sales of Hot Wheels products. Of the 19% increase in Other Girls gross sales, 11% was due to higher sales of Monster High products, and 7% was due to the initial launch of the Ever After High product line. Cost of sales decreased 4% in 2013, consistent with the 4% decrease in net sales, primarily due to lower product and other costs. Gross margins decreased slightly as a result of higher input costs partially offset by price increases, which were partially offset by Operational Excellence 3.0 savings.  

North America segment income decreased by 11% to $723.8 million in 2013, as compared to $810.3 million in 2012, due to lower gross profit and higher other selling and administrative expenses.  

International Segment  

The following table provides a summary of percentage changes in gross sales within the International segment in 2013 versus 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the International segment for 2013 and 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

37  

Table of Contents 

Gross sales for the International segment were $3.28 billion in 2013, up $151.8 million or 5%, as compared to $3.13 billion in 2012, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. The increase in the International segment gross sales was due to higher sales of Other Girls products. Of the 30% increase in Other Girls gross sales, 29% was due to higher sales of Monster High products. Cost of sales increased by 2% in 2013, as compared to a 5% increase in net sales, primarily due to higher product and other costs and higher freight and logistics expenses. Gross margins increased as a result of Operational Excellence 3.0 savings, favorable product mix, and price increases partially offset by higher input costs, partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  

International segment income increased by 9% to $622.9 million in 2013, as compared to $571.4 million in 2012, primarily due to higher gross profit, partially offset by higher other selling and administrative expenses and higher advertising and promotion expenses.  

American Girl Segment  

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the American Girl segment for 2013 and 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross sales for the American Girl segment were $658.8 million in 2013, up $62.5 million or 10%, as compared to $596.3 million in 2012, with an unfavorable impact from changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Of the 11% increase in American Girl Brands gross sales, 6% was due to higher sales of the 2013 Girl of the Year, Saige®, and 3% was due to higher sales of My American Girl products. Cost of sales increased 8% in 2013, as compared to a 10% increase in net sales, primarily due to higher product and other costs and higher freight and logistics expenses. Gross margins increased as a result of favorable product mix and price increases partially offset by higher input costs.  

American Girl segment income increased by 13% to $138.0 million in 2013, as compared to $121.6 million in 2012, primarily due to higher gross profit, partially offset by higher other selling and administrative expenses.  

Cost Savings Programs  

During 2011, Mattel initiated Operational Excellence 2.0, which targeted cumulative cost savings of approximately $175 million by the end of 2012. Mattel exceeded its Operational Excellence 2.0 goal by realizing approximately $187 million of cumulative gross cost savings throughout the program. The major initiatives within the Operational Excellence 2.0 program included:  

   •    A reorganization which resulted in the North America division,  

   •    Additional procurement initiatives designed to fully leverage Mattel’s global scale,  

   •    SKU efficiency, and  

   •    Packaging optimization.  

During 2012, Mattel realized gross cost savings before severance charges and investments of approximately $93 million (or approximately $77 million in net cost savings). The gross cost savings included approximately $53 million of structural cost savings and approximately $40 million of legal cost savings. Of the gross cost  

38  

Table of Contents 

 savings realized in 2012, approximately $55 million was reflected within other selling and administrative expenses, approximately $27 million within gross profit, and approximately $11 million within advertising and promotion expenses.  

During 2013, Mattel initiated Operational Excellence 3.0, which targeted cumulative gross cost savings of approximately $175 million by the end of 2014. Mattel exceeded its Operational Excellence 3.0 goal by realizing approximately $179 million of cumulative gross cost savings throughout the program. The cost savings program was designed to generate sustainable cost savings through the following primary initiatives:  

   •    Manufacturing efficiencies through automation, Lean manufacturing principles, design for manufacturing, enterprise quality, and packaging optimization,  

   •    Indirect procurement, and  

   •    Operational efficiencies related to enhanced International clustering and realignment of North America operations.  

During 2013, Mattel realized gross cost savings before severance charges and investments of approximately $60 million (or approximately $39 million in net cost savings). Of the gross cost savings realized in 2013, approximately $51 million was reflected within gross profit, approximately $8 million within other selling and administrative expenses, and approximately $1 million within advertising and promotion expenses.  

During 2014, Mattel realized gross cost savings before severance charges and investments of approximately $119 million (or approximately $74 million in net cost savings). Of the gross cost savings realized in 2014, approximately $77 million was reflected within gross profit, approximately $35 million within other selling and administrative expenses, and approximately $7 million within advertising and promotion expenses.  

In 2015, Mattel has initiated the next phase of its cost savings program, Funding Our Future, which targets additional cumulative gross cost savings of approximately $250 million to $300 million by the end of 2016. The cost savings program is designed to generate cost savings through various initiatives, including structural and process improvements and supply chain optimization.  

Income Taxes  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2014 was 15.0%, as compared to 17.8% in 2013. The 2014 income tax provision included net tax benefits of $42.6 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, partially offset by a tax charge related to a 2014 tax restructuring for the HIT Entertainment and MEGA Brands operations.  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in both 2013 and 2012 was 17.8%. The 2013 income tax provision included net tax benefits of $32.2 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes. The 2012 income tax provision included net tax benefits of $16.0 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Mattel’s primary sources of liquidity are its cash and equivalents balances, access to short-term borrowing facilities, including its $1.60 billion domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”), and issuances of long-term debt securities. Cash flows from operating activities could be negatively impacted by decreased demand for Mattel’s products, which could result from factors such as adverse economic conditions and changes in public and consumer preferences, or by increased costs associated with manufacturing and  

39  

Table of Contents 

 distribution of products or shortages in raw materials or component parts. Additionally, Mattel’s ability to issue long-term debt and obtain seasonal financing could be adversely affected by factors such as global economic crises and tight credit environments, an inability to meet its debt covenant requirements, which include maintaining consolidated debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”) and interest coverage ratios, or a deterioration of Mattel’s credit ratings. Mattel’s ability to conduct its operations could be negatively impacted should these or other adverse conditions affect its primary sources of liquidity.  

Of Mattel’s $971.7 million in cash and equivalents as of December 31, 2014, approximately $765 million is held by foreign subsidiaries. Mattel may need to accrue and pay additional income taxes if some or all of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries were repatriated. Mattel does not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Mattel has several liquidity options to fund its domestic operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends, share repurchases, and debt service. Positive cash flows generated annually by its domestic operations, the unused Credit Facility of $1.60 billion as of December 31, 2014, and access to both long-term and short-term public and private debt markets at highly competitive interest rates are available to fund domestic operations and obligations. If these sources are not adequate, Mattel also has the ability to repatriate highly taxed foreign earnings, receive repayment of intercompany loans to foreign subsidiaries, and distribute liquidating dividends from foreign subsidiaries, all of which would have a very nominal impact, if any, on Mattel’s tax liabilities. Mattel believes that its policy to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of its foreign subsidiaries will not result in and is not reasonably likely to result in a material change to Mattel’s liquidity position.  

Current Market Conditions  

Mattel is exposed to financial market risk resulting from changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. Mattel believes that it has ample liquidity to fund its business needs, including beginning of year cash and equivalents, cash flows from operations, and access to the commercial paper markets and its Credit Facility, which it uses for seasonal working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2014, Mattel had available incremental borrowing resources totaling $1.60 billion under the Credit Facility, and Mattel has not experienced any limitations on its ability to access this source of liquidity. Market conditions could affect certain terms of other debt instruments that Mattel enters into from time to time.  

Mattel monitors the third-party depository institutions that hold the Company’s cash and equivalents. Mattel’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal, and secondarily on maximizing the yield on those funds. Mattel diversifies its cash and equivalents among counterparties and securities to minimize risks.  

Mattel is subject to credit risks relating to the ability of its counterparties in hedging transactions to meet their contractual payment obligations. The risks related to creditworthiness and nonperformance have been considered in the fair value measurements of Mattel’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Mattel closely monitors its counterparties and takes action, as necessary, to manage its counterparty credit risk.  

Mattel expects that some of its customers and vendors may experience difficulty in obtaining the liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials. Mattel monitors its customers’ financial condition and their liquidity in order to mitigate Mattel’s accounts receivable collectibility risks, and customer terms and credit limits are adjusted, if necessary. Additionally, Mattel uses a variety of financial arrangements to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a credit risk, including requiring letters of credit, factoring, purchasing various forms of credit insurance with unrelated third parties, or requiring cash in advance of shipment.  

Mattel sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for its employees. Actual returns below the expected rate of return, along with changes in interest rates that affect the measurement of the liability, would impact the amount and timing of Mattel’s future contributions to these plans.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Capital and Investment Framework  

To guide future capital deployment decisions, with a goal of maximizing stockholder value, Mattel’s Board of Directors established the following capital and investment framework:  

   •    To maintain approximately $800 million to $1 billion in year-end cash available to fund a substantial portion of seasonal working capital,  

   •    To maintain a year-end debt-to-capital ratio of about 35%,  

   •    To invest approximately $180 million to $200 million in capital expenditures annually to maintain and grow the business,  

   •    To make strategic opportunistic acquisitions, and  

   •    To return excess funds to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases.  

Over the long term, assuming annual cash flows from operating activities remain strong, Mattel plans to use its free cash flows to invest in strategic acquisitions and to return funds to stockholders through cash dividends and share repurchases. Mattel’s share repurchase program has no expiration date and repurchases will take place from time to time, depending on market conditions. The ability to successfully implement the capital deployment plan is directly dependent on Mattel’s ability to generate strong annual cash flows from operating activities. There is no assurance that Mattel will continue to generate strong annual cash flows from operating activities or achieve its targeted goals for investing activities.  

Operating Activities  

Cash flows from operating activities were $888.6 million during 2014, as compared to $698.4 million during 2013 and $1.28 billion during 2012. The increase in cash flows from operating activities in 2014 from 2013 was primarily due to reductions in working capital usage, partially offset by lower net income. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities in 2013 from 2012 was primarily due to higher working capital usage, including payment of the Litigation Charge of approximately $138 million, partially offset by higher net income.  

Investing Activities  

Cash flows used for investing activities were $708.6 million during 2014, as compared to $242.1 million during 2013 and $900.2 million during 2012. The increase in cash flows used for investing activities in 2014 from 2013 was primarily due to the acquisition of MEGA Brands. The decrease in cash flows used for investing activities in 2013 from 2012 was primarily due to the acquisition of HIT Entertainment in 2012, partially offset by higher purchases of tools, dies, and molds and other property, plant, and equipment in 2013.  

Financing Activities  

Cash flows used for financing activities were $227.3 million during 2014, as compared to $740.0 million during 2013 and $410.9 million during 2012. The decrease in cash flows used for financing activities in 2014 from 2013 was primarily due to lower repayments of long-term borrowings and lower share repurchases, partially offset by lower proceeds from the exercise of stock options. The increase in cash flows used for financing activities in 2013 from 2012 was primarily due to higher share repurchases and higher repayments of long-term borrowings, partially offset by net proceeds from long-term borrowings.  

During 2014, Mattel repurchased 4.9 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $177.2 million. During 2013, Mattel repurchased 11.0 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $469.2 million. During 2012, Mattel repurchased 2.3 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $77.9 million, of which $23.5 million was unsettled at December 31, 2012. Mattel’s share repurchase program was first announced on July 21, 2003. On July 17, 2013, the Board of Directors authorized Mattel to increase its share repurchase program by $500.0  

41  

Table of Contents 

 million. At December 31, 2014, share repurchase authorizations of $203.0 million had not been executed. Repurchases under the program will take place from time to time, depending on market conditions. Mattel’s share repurchase program has no expiration date.  

During 2014, 2013, and 2012, Mattel paid total dividends per share of $1.52, $1.44, and $1.24, respectively, to holders of its common stock. The Board of Directors declared the dividends on a quarterly basis, and Mattel paid the dividends during the quarters in which the dividends were declared. The payment of dividends on common stock is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and is subject to customary limitations. Dividend payments were $514.8 million, $494.4 million, and $423.4 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  

Seasonal Financing  

See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt.”  

Financial Position  

Mattel’s cash and equivalents decreased $67.6 million to $971.7 million at December 31, 2014, as compared to $1.04 billion at December 31, 2013. The decrease was primarily due to dividend payments, the acquisition of MEGA Brands, purchases of tools, dies, and molds and other property, plant, and equipment, and share repurchases, partially offset by cash flow from operating activities and net proceeds from the issuance of $500.0 million of 2.35% senior unsecured notes due May 6, 2019 (the “2014 Senior Notes”).  

Accounts receivable decreased $166.9 million to $1.09 billion at December 31, 2014, as compared to $1.26 billion at December 31, 2013. Inventory decreased $6.8 million to $562.0 million at December 31, 2014, as compared to $568.8 million at December 31, 2013. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to lower sales volume and the timing of cash collections. The decrease in inventory was primarily due to efforts to tightly manage inventory as a result of sales volume declines and lower advanced purchases of raw materials. The change in accounts receivable and inventory from December 31, 2013 includes an increase of $84.5 million and $32.7 million, respectively, related to the MEGA Brands acquisition.  

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities increased $54.7 million to $1.07 billion at December 31, 2014, as compared to $1.02 billion at December 31, 2013. The increase was primarily due to the timing and amount of payments for various liabilities, including royalties and advertising and promotion, partially offset by lower incentive compensation accruals. The change in accounts payable and accrued liabilities from December 31, 2013 includes an increase of $45.3 million related to the MEGA Brands acquisition.  

As of December 31, 2014, Mattel had no foreign short-term bank loans outstanding, which is a decrease of $4.3 million from December 31, 2013.  

A summary of Mattel’s capitalization is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

42  

Table of Contents 

Noncurrent long-term debt increased $500.0 million from December 31, 2013 to $2.10 billion at December 31, 2014, due to the issuance of $500.0 million of 2014 Senior Notes.  

Stockholders’ equity decreased $302.5 million from December 31, 2013 to $2.95 billion at December 31, 2014, primarily due to dividend payments, currency translation adjustments, and share repurchases, partially offset by net income.  

Mattel’s debt-to-total capital ratio, including short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt, increased from 33.0% at December 31, 2013 to 41.6% at December 31, 2014 as a result of higher borrowings and lower stockholders’ equity.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Mattel has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on its financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.  

Commitments  

In the normal course of business, Mattel enters into debt agreements and contractual arrangements to obtain and protect Mattel’s right to create and market certain products and for future purchases of goods and services to ensure availability and timely delivery. These arrangements include commitments for future inventory and service purchases and royalty payments pursuant to licensing agreements. Certain of these commitments routinely contain provisions for guarantees or minimum expenditures during the terms of the contracts. Mattel also has defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans, which require future cash contributions and benefit payments. Additionally, Mattel routinely enters into noncancelable lease agreements for premises and equipment used, which contain minimum rental payments.  

The following table summarizes Mattel’s contractual commitments and obligations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Represents total obligation, including imputed interest of $0.3 million.  

Liabilities for uncertain tax positions for which a cash tax payment is not expected to be made in the next twelve months are classified as other noncurrent liabilities. Due to the uncertainty about the periods in which examinations will be completed and limited information related to current audits, Mattel is not able to make reasonably reliable estimates of the periods in which cash settlements will occur with taxing authorities for the noncurrent liabilities.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Subsequent Event  

On January 26, 2015, Mattel announced that its Board of Directors declared a first quarter dividend of $0.38 per common share. The dividend is payable on March 6, 2015 to stockholders of record on February 19, 2015.  

Litigation  

The content of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation” is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 7.  

Effects of Inflation  

Inflation rates in the US and in major foreign countries where Mattel does business have not had a significant impact on its results of operations or financial position during 2014, 2013, or 2012. Mattel receives some protection from the impact of inflation from high turnover of inventories and its ability, under certain circumstances and at certain times, to pass on higher prices to its customers.  

Employee Savings Plan  

Mattel sponsors a 401(k) savings plan, the Mattel, Inc. Personal Investment Plan (the “Plan”), for its domestic employees. Contributions to the Plan include voluntary contributions by eligible employees and employer automatic and matching contributions by Mattel. The Plan allows employees to allocate both their voluntary contributions and their employer automatic and matching contributions to a variety of investment funds, including a fund that is invested in Mattel common stock (the “Mattel Stock Fund”). Employees are not required to allocate any of their Plan account balance to the Mattel Stock Fund, allowing employees to limit or eliminate their exposure to market changes in Mattel’s stock price. Furthermore, the Plan limits the percentage of the employee’s total account balance that may be allocated to the Mattel Stock Fund to 25%. Employees may generally reallocate their account balances on a daily basis. However, pursuant to Mattel’s insider trading policy, employees classified as insiders and restricted personnel under Mattel’s insider trading policy are limited to certain periods in which they may make allocations into or out of the Mattel Stock Fund.  

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Mattel makes certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The accounting policies and estimates described below are those Mattel considers most critical in preparing its consolidated financial statements. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosures included below. These accounting policies and estimates include significant judgments made by management using information available at the time the estimates are made. As described below, however, these estimates could change materially if different information or assumptions were used instead.  

For a summary of Mattel’s significant accounting policies, estimates, and methods used in the preparation of Mattel’s consolidated financial statements, see Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” In most instances, Mattel must use an accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”).  

Accounts Receivable—Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

The allowance for doubtful accounts represents adjustments to customer trade accounts receivable for amounts deemed partially or entirely uncollectible. Management believes the accounting estimate related to the allowance for doubtful accounts is a “critical accounting estimate” because significant changes in the  

44  

Table of Contents 

 assumptions used to develop the estimate could materially affect key financial measures, including other selling and administrative expenses, net income, and accounts receivable. In addition, the allowance requires a high degree of judgment since it involves estimation of the impact of both current and future economic factors in relation to its customers’ ability to pay amounts owed to Mattel.  

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the North America segment are sold directly to retailers, including discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets and, to a limited extent, wholesalers, and directly to consumers. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence.  

In recent years, the mass-market retail channel has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems. Mattel’s sales to customers are typically made on credit without collateral and are highly concentrated in the third and fourth quarters due to the seasonal nature of toy sales, which results in a substantial portion of trade receivables being collected during the latter half of the year and the first quarter of the following year. There is a risk that customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond the control of Mattel. This could increase Mattel’s exposure to losses from bad debts.  

A small number of customers account for a large share of Mattel’s net sales and accounts receivable. In 2014, Mattel’s three largest customers, Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us, and Target, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 35% of net sales, and its ten largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 45% of net sales. As of December 31, 2014, Mattel’s three largest customers accounted for approximately 34% of net accounts receivable, and its ten largest customers accounted for approximately 47% of net accounts receivable. The concentration of Mattel’s business with a relatively small number of customers may expose Mattel to a material adverse effect if one or more of Mattel’s large customers were to experience financial difficulty.  

Mattel has procedures to mitigate its risk of exposure to losses from bad debts. Revenue is recognized upon shipment or upon receipt of products by the customer, depending on the terms, provided that: there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance; persuasive evidence of an agreement exists documenting the specific terms of the transaction; the sales price is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured. Value added taxes are recorded on a net basis and are excluded from revenue. Credit limits and payment terms are established based on the underlying criteria that collectibility must be reasonably assured at the levels set for each customer. Extensive evaluations are performed on an ongoing basis throughout the fiscal year of each customer’s financial performance, cash generation, financing availability, and liquidity status. Customers are reviewed at least annually, with more frequent reviews being performed, if necessary, based on the customers’ financial condition and the level of credit being extended. For customers who are experiencing financial difficulties, management performs additional financial analyses prior to shipping to those customers on credit. Customers’ terms and credit limits are adjusted, if necessary, to reflect the results of the review. Mattel uses a variety of financial arrangements to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a credit risk, including requiring letters of credit, factoring, purchasing various forms of credit insurance with unrelated third parties, or requiring cash in advance of shipment.  

The following table summarizes Mattel’s allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

45  

Table of Contents 

Mattel’s allowance for doubtful accounts is based on management’s assessment of the business environment, customers’ financial condition, historical collection experience, accounts receivable aging, and customer disputes. Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts reflect management’s assessment of the factors noted above, including past due accounts, disputed balances with customers, and the financial condition of customers. The allowance for doubtful accounts is also affected by the time at which uncollectible accounts receivable balances are actually written off.  

Mattel believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2014 is adequate and proper. However, as described above, Mattel’s business is greatly dependent on a small number of customers. Should one or more of Mattel’s major customers experience liquidity problems, then the allowance for doubtful accounts may not be sufficient to cover such losses. Any incremental bad debt charges would negatively affect the results of operations of one or more of Mattel’s business segments.  

Inventories—Allowance for Obsolescence  

Inventories, net of an allowance for excess quantities and obsolescence, are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventory obsolescence reserves are recorded for damaged, obsolete, excess, and slow-moving inventory. Inventory allowances are charged to cost of sales and establish a lower cost basis for the inventory. Management believes that the accounting estimate related to the allowance for obsolescence is a “critical accounting estimate” because changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimate could materially affect key financial measures, including gross profit, net income, and inventories. As more fully described below, valuation of Mattel’s inventory could be impacted by changes in public and consumer preferences, demand for product, or changes in the buying patterns of both retailers and consumers and inventory management of customers.  

In the toy industry, orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment since actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in excess inventory in a particular product line, which would require management to record a valuation adjustment on such inventory.  

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Mattel ships products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by its customers, who usually request delivery within three months. In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three quarters of its fiscal year. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times create risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers are also attempting to manage their inventories more tightly, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase inventory valuation risk since Mattel’s inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed.  

When current conditions in the domestic and global economies become uncertain, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts of the economy, including the economies in which Mattel participates. Because all components of Mattel’s budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets it serves and demand for its products, economic uncertainty makes estimates of future demand for product more difficult. Such economic changes may affect the sales of Mattel’s products and its corresponding inventory levels, which could potentially impact the valuation of its inventory.  

46  

Table of Contents 

At the end of each quarter, management within each business segment, North America, International, and American Girl, performs a detailed review of its inventory on an item-by-item basis and identifies products that are believed to be impaired. Management assesses the need for, and the amount of, an obsolescence reserve based on the following factors:  

   •    Customer and/or consumer demand for the item,  

   •    Overall inventory positions of Mattel’s customers,  

   •    Strength of competing products in the market,  

   •    Quantity on hand of the item,  

   •    Sales price of the item,  

   •    Mattel’s cost for the item, and  

   •    Length of time the item has been in inventory.  

The timeframe between when an estimate is made and the time of disposal depends on the above factors and may vary significantly. Generally, slow-moving inventory is liquidated during the next annual selling cycle.  

The following table summarizes Mattel’s obsolescence reserve at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Management believes that its allowance for obsolescence at December 31, 2014 is adequate and proper. However, the impact resulting from the aforementioned factors could cause actual results to vary. Any incremental obsolescence charges would negatively affect the results of operations of one or more of Mattel’s business segments.  

Goodwill and Nonamortizable Intangible Assets  

Mattel tests goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets for impairment annually or more often if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment may have occurred. Management believes that the accounting estimates related to the fair value estimates of its goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets are “critical accounting estimates” because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimates could materially affect key financial measures, including net income, goodwill, and other intangible assets.  

Assessing goodwill for impairment involves a high degree of judgment due to the assumptions that underlie the valuation. For purposes of evaluating whether goodwill is impaired, goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are at the operating segment level. Mattel’s reporting units are: (i) North America, (ii) International, and (iii) American Girl. Mattel then assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. This qualitative assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test. When the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test is necessary, impairment is determined by estimating the fair value of a reporting unit and comparing that value to the reporting unit’s book value. If the fair value is greater than the book value of the reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired. If an impairment exists, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of its assets and liabilities excluding goodwill, with the excess amount representing the fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the book value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the estimated fair value of that goodwill.  

47  

Table of Contents 

When performing the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test, Mattel utilizes the fair value based upon the discounted cash flows that the business can be expected to generate in the future (the “Income Approach”). The Income Approach valuation method requires Mattel to make projections of revenue, operating costs, and working capital investment for the reporting unit over a multi-year period. Additionally, management must make an estimate of a weighted average cost of capital that a market participant would use as a discount rate. Changes in these projections or estimates could result in a reporting unit either passing or failing the first step of the impairment model, which could significantly change the amount of any impairment ultimately recorded.  

During the third quarter of 2014, Mattel assessed its goodwill for impairment by evaluating qualitative factors, such as reporting unit performance, results of its most recent quantitative assessments, general economic conditions, access to capital, the industry and competitive environment, current business strategies, and the interest rate environment, for each of its reporting units and determined that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units were less than the carrying amounts. As a result of this determination, the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test was deemed unnecessary.  

Testing nonamortizable intangible assets for impairment also involves a high degree of judgment due to the assumptions that underlie the valuation. Mattel evaluates nonamortizable intangible assets, including trademarks and trade names, for impairment by comparing the estimated fair values with the carrying values. The fair value is measured using a multi-period excess earnings method, which reflects the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable to the trademark and trade names after deducting the appropriate contributory asset charges.  

During the second quarter of 2013, Mattel changed its brand strategy for Polly Pocket, which includes a more focused allocation of resources to support the Polly Pocket brand in specific markets, resulting in a reduction of the forecasted future cash flows of the brand. As a result of the change, Mattel tested the asset for impairment. The Polly Pocket trade name, which previously had a carrying value of approximately $113 million, had a fair value of approximately $99 million, and Mattel recorded an impairment charge of approximately $14 million within other selling and administrative expenses. In conjunction with the impairment test, Mattel reassessed Polly Pocket’s nonamortizable classification and determined that the nonamortizable classification could no longer be supported. As such, the Polly Pocket trade name was reclassified as an amortizable intangible asset, and the remaining fair value of the asset is being amortized over its estimated remaining useful life. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Goodwill and Other Intangibles” for additional information.  

During the third quarter of 2014, Mattel performed the annual impairment test for the remaining nonamortizable intangible assets as required and determined that its remaining nonamortizable intangible assets were not impaired as the fair values of the nonamortizable intangible assets exceeded their carrying values. Mattel also considered events and circumstances subsequent to these impairment tests in concluding there was no impairment as of December 31, 2014.  

Sales Adjustments  

Mattel routinely enters into arrangements with its customers to provide sales incentives, support customer promotions, and provide allowances for returns and defective merchandise. Such programs are based primarily on customer purchases, customer performance of specified promotional activities, and other specified factors such as sales to consumers. Accruals for these programs are recorded as sales adjustments that reduce gross revenue in the period the related revenue is recognized. Sales adjustments for such programs totaled $694.6 million, $632.9 million, and $631.7 million during 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  

The above-described programs primarily involve fixed amounts or percentages of sales to customers. Accruals for such programs are calculated based on an assessment of customers’ purchases and performance under the programs and any other specified factors. While the majority of sales adjustment amounts are readily  

48  

Table of Contents 

 determinable at period end and do not require estimates, certain of the sales adjustments require management to make estimates. In making these estimates, management considers all available information, including the overall business environment, historical trends, and information from customers. Management believes that the accruals recorded for customer programs as of December 31, 2014 are adequate and proper.  

Benefit Plan Assumptions  

Mattel and certain of its subsidiaries have retirement and other postretirement benefit plans covering substantially all employees of these companies. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Employee Benefit Plans.”  

Actuarial valuations are used in determining amounts recognized in the financial statements for certain retirement and other postretirement benefit plans. These valuations incorporate the following significant assumptions:  

   •    Weighted average discount rate to be used to measure future plan obligations and interest cost component of plan income or expense,  

   •    Rate of future compensation increases (for defined benefit pension plans),  

   •    Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (for funded plans), and  

   •    Health care cost trend rates (for other postretirement benefit plans).  

Management believes that these assumptions are “critical accounting estimates” because significant changes in these assumptions could impact Mattel’s results of operations and financial position. Management believes that the assumptions utilized to record its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on the plans’ experience and advice received from its outside actuaries. Mattel reviews its benefit plan assumptions annually and modifies its assumptions based on current rates and trends as appropriate. The effects of such changes in assumptions are amortized as part of plan income or expense in future periods.  

At the end of each fiscal year, Mattel determines the weighted average discount rate used to calculate the projected benefit obligation. The discount rate is an estimate of the current interest rate at which the benefit plan liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year. The discount rate also impacts the interest cost component of plan income or expense. As of December 31, 2014, Mattel determined the discount rate for its domestic benefit plans used in determining the projected and accumulated benefit obligations to be 3.8%, as compared to 4.7% and 4.0% as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. In estimating this rate, Mattel reviews rates of return on high-quality corporate bond indices, which approximate the timing and amount of benefit payments. Assuming all other benefit plan assumptions remain constant, the decrease in the discount rate from 4.7% to 3.8% would result in a increase in benefit plan expense during 2015 of approximately $3 million.  

The rate of future compensation increases used by Mattel for the benefit obligation and the net periodic pension cost of its domestic defined benefit pension plans averaged 3.8% for 2014, 2013, and 2012, based on plan demographics. This assumption is reviewed annually based on historical salary increases for participants in the defined benefit pension plans and impacts the service and interest cost components of plan income or expense.  

The long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on management’s expectation of earnings on the assets that secure Mattel’s funded defined benefit pension plans, taking into account the mix of invested assets, the arithmetic average of past returns, economic and stock market conditions and future expectations, and the long-term nature of the projected benefit obligation to which these investments relate. The long-term rate of return is used to calculate the expected return on plan assets that is used in calculating pension income or expense. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred, net of tax, and is included in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The net deferral of past asset gains or losses affects the calculated  

49  

Table of Contents 

 value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension income or expense. Mattel’s long-term rate of return used in determining plan expense for its domestic defined benefit pension plans was 8.0% in 2014, 2013, and 2012. Assuming all other benefit plan assumptions remain constant, a one percentage point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase in benefit plan expense during 2015 of approximately $4 million.  

The health care cost trend rates used by Mattel for its other postretirement benefit plans reflect management’s best estimate of expected claim costs over the next ten years. These trend rates impact the service and interest cost components of plan expense. Rates ranging from 8.5% in 2014 to 5.4% in 2030, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2030 and thereafter, were used in determining plan expense for 2014. These rates are reviewed annually and are estimated based on historical costs for participants in the other postretirement benefit plans as well as estimates based on current economic conditions. As of December 31, 2014, Mattel adjusted the health care cost trend rates for its other postretirement benefit plan obligation to 7.5% for participants younger than age 65 and 8.8% for participants age 65 and older. For participants younger than age 65, the cost trend rates are estimated to reduce to 4.5% by 2023, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2023. For participants age 65 and older, the cost trend rates are estimated to reduce to 4.5% by 2024, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2024. Assuming all other postretirement benefit plan assumptions remain constant, a one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would result in an increase in benefit plan expense during 2015 of less than $1 million.  

A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each future year would impact the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2014 by $2.0 million and $(1.7) million, respectively, and the service and interest cost recognized for 2014 by $0.1 million and $(0.1) million, respectively.  

Share-Based Payments  

Mattel recognizes the cost of employee share-based payment awards on a straight-line attribution basis over the requisite employee service period, net of estimated forfeitures. In determining when additional tax benefits associated with share-based payment exercises are recognized, Mattel follows the ordering of deductions under the tax law, which allows deductions for share-based payment exercises to be utilized before previously existing net operating loss carryforwards.  

Determining the fair value of share-based awards at the measurement date requires judgment, including estimating the expected term that stock options will be outstanding prior to exercise, the associated volatility, and the expected dividends. Mattel estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected life of the options used in this calculation is the period of time the options are expected to be outstanding and has been determined based on historical exercise experience. Expected stock price volatility is based on the historical volatility of Mattel’s stock for a period approximating the expected life, the expected dividend yield is based on Mattel’s most recent actual annual dividend payout, and the risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on US Treasury zero-coupon issues approximating the expected life. Judgment is also required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that will be forfeited prior to vesting. Management believes that these assumptions are “critical accounting estimates” because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimates could materially affect key financial measures, including net income.  

50  

Table of Contents 

The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted during 2014, 2013, and 2012 was $4.57, $8.80, and $7.32, respectively. The following weighted average assumptions were used in determining the fair value of options granted:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table summarizes the sensitivity of valuation assumptions within the calculation of stock option fair values, if all other assumptions are held constant:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mattel recognized compensation expense of $12.5 million, $12.1 million, and $13.8 million for stock options during 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively, which is included within other selling and administrative expenses. Compensation expense recognized related to grants of restricted stock units (“RSUs”), including performance-based restricted stock units (“Performance RSUs”), was $39.5 million, $49.6 million, and $49.5 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively, and is also included within other selling and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2014, total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based payments totaled $87.7 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years.  

Income Taxes  

Mattel’s income tax provision and related income tax assets and liabilities are based on actual and expected future income, US and foreign statutory income tax rates, and tax regulations and planning opportunities in the various jurisdictions in which Mattel operates. Management believes that the accounting estimates related to income taxes are “critical accounting estimates” because significant judgment is required in interpreting tax regulations in the US and in foreign jurisdictions, evaluating Mattel’s worldwide uncertain tax positions, and assessing the likelihood of realizing certain tax benefits. Actual results could differ materially from those judgments, and changes in judgments could materially affect Mattel’s consolidated financial statements.  

Certain income and expense items are accounted for differently for financial reporting and income tax purposes. As a result, the income tax expense reflected in Mattel’s consolidated statements of operations is different than that reported in Mattel’s tax returns filed with the taxing authorities. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in Mattel’s tax return, and some differences reverse over  

51  

Table of Contents 

 time, such as depreciation expense. These timing differences create deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in Mattel’s tax returns in future years for which Mattel has already recorded a tax benefit in its consolidated statement of operations. Mattel records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred income tax assets if, based on the weight of available evidence, management believes expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction. Management evaluates the level of Mattel’s valuation allowances at least annually, and more frequently if actual operating results differ significantly from forecasted results.  

Mattel records unrecognized tax benefits for US federal, state, local, and foreign tax positions related primarily to transfer pricing, tax credits claimed, tax nexus, and apportionment. For each reporting period, management applies a consistent methodology to measure unrecognized tax benefits and all unrecognized tax benefits are reviewed periodically and adjusted as circumstances warrant. Mattel’s measurement of its unrecognized tax benefits is based on management’s assessment of all relevant information, including prior audit experience, the status of audits, conclusions of tax audits, lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, identification of new issues, and any administrative guidance or developments. Mattel recognizes unrecognized tax benefits in the first financial reporting period in which information becomes available indicating that such benefits will more-likely-than-not (a greater than 50 percent likelihood) be realized.  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2014 was 15.0%, as compared to 17.8% in 2013. The income tax provision included net tax benefits of $42.6 million, $32.2 million, and $16.0 million in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. The 2014 net tax benefits primarily relate to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, partially offset by a tax charge related to a 2014 tax restructuring for the HIT Entertainment and MEGA Brands operations. The 2013 and 2012 net tax benefits primarily related to the reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.  

In the normal course of business, Mattel is regularly audited by federal, state, local, and foreign tax authorities. The ultimate settlement of any particular issue with the applicable taxing authority could have a material impact on Mattel’s consolidated financial statements.  

New Accounting Pronouncements  

See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”  

Non-GAAP Financial Measure  

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess, and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand, and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel’s business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful.  

52  

Table of Contents 

A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

53  

Table of Contents 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.