Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

(Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995)  

Mattel is including this Cautionary Statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) for forward-looking statements. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They often include words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “intends,” “plans,” “seeks” or words of similar meaning, or future or conditional verbs, such as “will,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “aims,” “intends,” or “projects.” A forward-looking statement is neither a prediction nor a guarantee of future events or circumstances, and those future events or circumstances may not occur. Investors should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are all based on currently available operating, financial, economic and competitive information and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. Mattel expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise.  

13  

Table of Contents 

If Mattel does not successfully identify or satisfy consumer preferences, its results of operations may be adversely affected.  

Mattel’s business and operating results depend largely upon the appeal of its toy products. Consumer preferences, particularly with children as the end users of Mattel’s products, are continuously changing. Significant, sudden shifts in demand are caused by “hit” toys and trends, which are often unpredictable. Mattel offers a diverse range of products for children of all ages and families that includes, among others, toys for infants and preschoolers, girls’ toys, boys’ toys, youth electronics, digital media, hand-held and other games, puzzles, educational toys, media-driven products, and fashion-related toys. Mattel competes domestically and internationally with a wide range of large and small manufacturers, marketers and sellers of toys, video games, consumer electronics such as tablets and mobile devices, and other play products, as well as retailers, which means that Mattel’s market position is always at risk. Mattel’s ability to maintain its current product sales, and increase its product sales or establish product sales with new, innovative toys, will depend on Mattel’s ability to satisfy play preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, and achieve market acceptance of these products. These challenges are intensifying due to recent trends towards shorter life cycles for individual toy products, the phenomenon of children outgrowing traditional toys at younger ages, and an increasing use of more sophisticated technology in toys. If Mattel does not successfully meet the challenges outlined above in a timely and cost-effective manner, demand for its products could decrease, and Mattel’s revenues, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected.  

High levels of competition and low barriers to entry make it difficult to achieve, maintain, or build upon the success of Mattel’s brands, products, and product lines.  

Mattel faces competitors who are also constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with Mattel’s products. In addition, competition for access to entertainment properties could lessen Mattel’s ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products developed by other parties and licensed to Mattel or require Mattel to pay licensors higher royalties and higher minimum guaranteed payments in order to obtain or retain these licenses. In addition, the barriers to entry for new participants in the toy products industry are low. In a very short period of time, new market participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can become a significant source of competition for Mattel and its products. If demand for Mattel’s brands, products and product lines is reduced as a result of these factors, Mattel’s results of operations may be adversely affected.  

Inaccurately anticipating changes and trends in popular culture, media and movies, fashion, or technology can negatively affect Mattel’s sales.  

Successful movies and characters in children’s literature affect play preferences, and many toys depend on media-based intellectual property licenses. Media-based licenses can cause a line of toys to gain immediate success among children, parents, or families. Trends in media, movies, and children’s characters change swiftly and contribute to the transience and uncertainty of play preferences. In addition, certain developments in the entertainment industry, including labor strikes, could cause delay or interruption in the release of new movies and television programs and could adversely affect the sales of Mattel’s toys based on such movies and television programs. Mattel responds to such trends and developments by modifying, refreshing, extending, and expanding its product offerings on an annual basis. If Mattel does not accurately anticipate trends in popular culture, movies, media, fashion, or technology, its products may not be accepted by children, parents, or families and Mattel’s revenues, profitability, and results of operations may be adversely affected.  

Mattel’s failure to successfully market or advertise its products could have an adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

Mattel’s products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs. Mattel’s ability to sell products is dependent in part upon the success of these programs. If Mattel does not successfully market its products or if media or other advertising or promotional costs increase, these factors could have an adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Mattel’s business is highly seasonal and its operating results depend, in large part, on sales during the relatively brief traditional holiday season. Any events that disrupt Mattel’s business during its peak demand times could significantly, adversely and disproportionately affect Mattel’s business.  

Mattel’s business is subject to risks associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of toys that are less popular with consumers. Sales of toy products at retail are highly seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through December. In recent years, many consumers have delayed their purchases until just before the holidays. As a result, Mattel’s operating results depend, in large part, on sales during the relatively brief traditional holiday season. Retailers attempt to manage their inventories tightly, which requires Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. This in turn results in shorter lead times for production. Management believes that the recent increase in “last minute” shopping during the holiday season and the popularity of gift cards (which often shift purchases to after the holiday season) may negatively impact customer re-orders during the holiday season. These factors may decrease sales or increase the risks that Mattel may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times or that Mattel’s own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed.  

In addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of Mattel’s business, Mattel may be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as terrorist attacks, economic shocks, severe weather, earthquakes or other catastrophic events, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during its key selling season, or by events, such as strikes, disruptions in transportation or port delays, that interfere with the manufacture or shipment of goods during the critical months leading up to the holiday purchasing season.  

Mattel has significant customer concentration, so that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies or patterns of its key customers could have a significant impact on Mattel’s business and operating results.  

A small number of customers account for a large share of Mattel’s net sales. In 2014, Mattel’s three largest customers, Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us, and Target, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 35% of net sales, and its ten largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 45% of net sales. While the concentration of Mattel’s business with a relatively small number of customers may provide certain benefits to Mattel, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and decreased costs of sales and distribution, this concentration may expose Mattel to a material adverse effect if one or more of Mattel’s large customers were to significantly reduce purchases for any reason, favor competitors or new entrants, or increase their direct competition with Mattel by expanding their private-label business. Customers make no binding long-term commitments to Mattel regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering one-time purchase orders. Any customer could reduce its overall purchases of Mattel’s products, reduce the number and variety of Mattel’s products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for Mattel’s products, or otherwise seek to materially change the terms of the business relationship at any time. Any such change could significantly harm Mattel’s business and operating results.  

Liquidity problems or bankruptcy of Mattel’s key customers could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Mattel’s sales to customers are typically made on credit without collateral. There is a risk that key customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of bankruptcy, contraction of credit availability to such customers, weak retail sales or other factors beyond the control of Mattel, which could increase Mattel’s exposure to losses from bad debts. In addition, if key customers were to cease doing business as a result of bankruptcy or significantly reduce the number of stores operated, it could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Significant increases in the price of commodities, transportation, or labor, if not offset by declines in other input costs, or a reduction or interruption in the delivery of raw materials, components and finished products from Mattel’s vendors could negatively impact Mattel’s financial results.  

Cost increases, whether resulting from rising costs of materials, transportation, services, labor or compliance with existing or future regulatory requirements could impact the profit margins realized by Mattel on the sale of its products. Because of market conditions, timing of pricing decisions, and other factors, there can be no assurance that Mattel will be able to offset any of these increased costs by adjusting the prices of its products. Increases in prices of Mattel’s products may not be sustainable and could result in lower sales. Mattel’s ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on its ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials, parts and components from its suppliers and internal manufacturing capacity. Mattel has experienced shortages in the past, including shortages of raw materials and components. Additionally, as Mattel cannot guarantee the stability of its major suppliers, major suppliers may stop manufacturing components at any time with little or no notice. If Mattel is required to use alternative sources, it may be required to redesign some aspects of the affected products, which may involve delays and additional expense. Although Mattel works closely with suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurance that Mattel will not encounter these problems in the future. A reduction or interruption in supplies or in the delivery of finished products, whether resulting from more stringent regulatory requirements, disruptions in transportation, port delays, labor strikes, lockouts, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, severe weather, the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, or a significant increase in the price of one or more supplies, such as fuel or resin (which is an oil-based product used in plastics), or otherwise, could negatively impact Mattel’s financial results.  

Significant changes in currency exchange rates or the ability to transfer capital across borders could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s business and results of operations.  

Mattel operates facilities and sells products in numerous countries outside the United States. During 2014, Mattel’s net sales to international customers comprised 47% of Mattel’s total consolidated net sales. Furthermore, Mattel’s net investment in its foreign subsidiaries and its results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in currency exchange rates and regulations. Highly inflationary economies of certain foreign countries can result in foreign currency devaluation, which negatively impacts Mattel’s profitability. Mattel seeks to mitigate the exposure of its results of operations to fluctuations in currency exchange rates by aligning its prices with the local currency cost of acquiring inventory, distributing earnings in US Dollars, and partially hedging this exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts. These contracts are primarily used to hedge Mattel’s purchase and sale of inventory, and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Government action may restrict Mattel’s ability to transfer capital across borders and may also impact the fluctuation of currencies in the countries where Mattel conducts business or has invested capital. Significant changes in currency exchange rates, reductions in Mattel’s ability to transfer its capital across borders, and changes in government-fixed currency exchange rates, including the Chinese yuan and Venezuelan bolivar fuerte, could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s business and results of operations.  

If global economic conditions deteriorate, Mattel’s business and financial results could be adversely affected.  

Mattel designs, manufactures, and markets a wide variety of toy products worldwide through sales to retailer customers and directly to consumers. Mattel’s performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending, which remains relatively weak in the United States and in many countries around the world in which Mattel does business. Consumers’ discretionary purchases of toy products may be impacted by job losses, foreclosures, bankruptcies, reduced access to credit, significantly falling home prices, lower consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors that affect consumer spending behavior. Any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of Mattel’s products. Deterioration of global economic conditions or disruptions in credit markets in the markets in which Mattel operates could potentially have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s liquidity and capital resources, including increasing Mattel’s cost of capital or its ability to raise additional capital if needed, or otherwise adversely affect Mattel’s business and financial results.  

16  

Table of Contents 

In addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times, Mattel may need to increase promotional spending or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of its products. Those steps may increase costs and/or decrease operating margins.  

Failure to successfully implement new initiatives or meet product introduction schedules could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Mattel has announced, and in the future may announce, initiatives to reduce its costs, increase its efficiency, improve the execution of its core business, globalize and extend Mattel’s brands, catch new trends, create new brands, and offer new innovative products, enhance product safety, develop people, improve productivity, simplify processes, maintain customer service levels, as well as initiatives designed to drive sales growth, capitalize on Mattel’s scale advantage, and improve its supply chain. These initiatives involve investment of capital and complex decision-making as well as extensive and intensive execution, and the success of these initiatives is not assured. In addition, Mattel may anticipate introducing a particular product, product line or brand at a certain time in the future. There is no guarantee that Mattel will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis. Unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process or significant increases in the planned cost of development for new Mattel products may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product or new product introduction to be discontinued. Failure to successfully implement any of these initiatives, or launches, or the failure of any of these initiatives or launches to produce the results anticipated by management, could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

Mattel’s business depends in large part on the success of its vendors and outsourcers, and Mattel’s brands and reputation may be harmed by actions taken by third-parties that are outside Mattel’s control. In addition, any material failure, inadequacy, or interruption resulting from such vendors or outsourcings could harm Mattel’s ability to effectively operate its business.  

As a part of its efforts to cut costs, achieve better efficiencies and increase productivity and service quality, Mattel relies significantly on vendor and outsourcing relationships with third parties for services and systems including manufacturing, transportation, logistics and information technology. Any shortcoming of a Mattel vendor or outsourcer, particularly an issue affecting the quality of these services or systems, may be attributed by customers to Mattel, thus damaging Mattel’s reputation, and brand value, and potentially affecting its results of operations. In addition, problems with transitioning these services and systems to or operating failures with these vendors and outsourcers could cause delays in product sales, and reduce efficiency of Mattel’s operations, and significant capital investments could be required to remediate the problem.  

Increases in interest rates, reduction of Mattel’s credit ratings, contraction of credit availability, or the inability of Mattel to meet the debt covenant requirements in its credit facilities could negatively impact Mattel’s ability to conduct its operations.  

Mattel relies on external financing, including commercial paper and borrowings under its domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility, to help fund its seasonal working capital needs. Increases in interest rates, both domestically and internationally, could negatively affect Mattel’s cost of financing its operations. Any reduction in Mattel’s credit ratings could increase the cost of obtaining financing. Mattel may be hindered from obtaining, or incur additional costs to obtain, additional credit in tight credit markets. Additionally, Mattel’s ability to issue long-term debt and obtain seasonal financing could be adversely affected by factors such as market conditions and an inability to meet its debt covenant requirements, which include maintaining certain financial ratios. Mattel’s ability to conduct its operations could be negatively impacted should these or other adverse conditions affect its ability to access these sources of liquidity.  

17  

Table of Contents 

If Mattel is not able to adequately protect its proprietary intellectual property and information, and protect against third party claims that Mattel is infringing on their intellectual property rights, its results of operations could be adversely affected.  

The value of Mattel’s business depends on its ability to protect its intellectual property and information, including its trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets, in the US and around the world, as well as its customer, employee, and consumer data. The steps Mattel has taken may not prevent unauthorized use of its intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect its intellectual property as fully as in the US. Mattel may need to resort to litigation to protect its intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. If Mattel fails to protect its proprietary intellectual property and information, including any successful challenge to Mattel’s ownership of its intellectual property or material infringements of its intellectual property, this failure could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.  

Mattel has acquired certain intellectual properties from third parties. Declines in the profitability of these acquired brands may impact Mattel’s ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. Reduction in net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm Mattel’s financial results.  

Unfavorable resolution of or adverse developments in legal proceedings, other investigations, or regulatory matters could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s financial condition.  

Mattel periodically receives claims of infringement of intellectual property rights held by other parties. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, may be costly and time-consuming and may divert management and key personnel from business operations. If Mattel, its distributors, its licensors or its manufacturers are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of any third party, they may be required to obtain a license to use those rights, which may not be obtainable on reasonable terms, if at all.  

Mattel is, from time to time, involved in litigation or other disputes, investigations, and regulatory matters. An unfavorable resolution of these matters could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s financial condition and its operations. Regardless of their outcome, these matters may result in substantial costs and expenses, significantly divert the attention of management, or interrupt Mattel’s normal business operations. There can be no assurance that Mattel will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any of these matters.  

Mattel is subject to various laws and government policies or regulations in numerous jurisdictions, violation of which could subject it to sanctions. In addition, changes in such laws or policies or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in Mattel’s effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations that would negatively impact Mattel’s financial condition and results of operations.  

Mattel operates in a highly regulated environment in the US and international markets. US federal, state, and local governmental entities, and foreign governments regulate many aspects of Mattel’s business, including its products and the importation and exportation of its products. These policies or regulations may include accounting standards, taxation requirements (including changes in applicable income tax rates, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), product safety and other safety standards, trade restrictions, duties and tariffs, and regulations regarding currency and financial matters, anticorruption standards (such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), environmental matters, advertising directed toward children, product content, and privacy and data protection, as well as other administrative and regulatory restrictions. While Mattel takes all the steps it believes are necessary to comply with these laws and policies or regulations, there can be no assurance that Mattel will be in compliance in the future. Compliance with these various laws, regulations and policies imposes significant costs on Mattel’s business, and failure to comply could result in monetary liabilities and other penalties, and could lead to significant negative media attention and consumer dissatisfaction, which could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

18  

Table of Contents 

In addition, changes in laws or policies or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in Mattel’s effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations, any of which could negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations.  

Issues with products may lead to product liability, personal injury or property damage claims, recalls, withdrawals, replacements of products, or regulatory actions by governmental authorities that could divert resources, affect business operations, decrease sales, increase costs, and put Mattel at a competitive disadvantage, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s financial condition.  

Mattel has experienced, and may in the future experience, issues with products that may lead to product liability, personal injury or property damage claims, recalls, withdrawals, replacements of products, or regulatory actions by governmental authorities. Any of these activities could result in increased governmental scrutiny, harm to Mattel’s reputation, reduced demand by consumers for its products, decreased willingness by retailer customers to purchase or provide marketing support for those products, adverse impacts on Mattel’s ability to enter into licensing agreements for products on competitive terms, absence or increased cost of insurance, or additional safety and testing requirements. Such results could divert development and management resources, adversely affect Mattel’s business operations, decrease sales, increase legal fees and other costs, and put Mattel at a competitive disadvantage compared to other manufacturers not affected by similar issues with products, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on Mattel’s financial condition and results of operations.  

Mattel’s current and future operating procedures and product requirements may increase costs, significantly and adversely affect its relationship with vendors, and make it more difficult for Mattel to produce, purchase, and deliver products on a timely basis to meet market demands. Future conditions may require Mattel to adopt further changes that may increase its costs and further affect its relationship with vendors.  

Mattel’s current operating procedures and product requirements, including testing requirements and standards, have imposed costs on both Mattel and the vendors from which it purchases products. Changes in business conditions, including those resulting from new legislative and regulatory requirements, have caused and in the future could cause further revisions in Mattel’s operating procedures and product requirements. Changes in Mattel’s operating procedures and product requirements may delay delivery of products and increase costs. Mattel’s relationship with its existing vendors may be adversely affected as a result of these changes, making Mattel more dependent on a smaller number of vendors. Some vendors may choose not to continue to do business with Mattel or not to accommodate Mattel’s needs to the extent that they have done in the past. In addition, rising production costs, contraction of credit availability, and labor shortages have caused a substantial contraction in the number of toy manufacturers in China, decreasing the number of potential vendors to manufacture Mattel’s products. Because of the seasonal nature of Mattel’s business and the demands of its customers for deliveries with short lead times, Mattel depends upon the cooperation of its vendors to meet market demand for its products in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that existing and future events will not require Mattel to adopt additional requirements and incur additional costs, and impose those requirements and costs on its vendors, which may adversely affect its relationship with those vendors and Mattel’s ability to meet market demand in a timely manner.  

Political developments, including trade relations, and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist activities could adversely impact Mattel, its personnel and facilities, its customers and suppliers, retail and financial markets, and general economic conditions.  

Mattel’s business is worldwide in scope, including operations in 40 countries and territories. The deterioration of the political situation in a country in which Mattel has significant sales or operations, or the breakdown of trade relations between the US and a foreign country in which Mattel has significant manufacturing facilities or other operations, could adversely affect Mattel’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, a change in trade status for China could result in a substantial increase in the  

19  

Table of Contents 

 import duty of toys manufactured in China and imported into the US. In addition, the occurrence of war or hostilities between countries or threat of terrorist activities, and the responses to and results of these activities, could adversely impact Mattel, its personnel and facilities, its customers and suppliers, retail and financial markets, and general economic conditions.  

Disruptions in Mattel’s manufacturing operations due to political instability, civil unrest, or disease could negatively impact Mattel’s business, financial position, and results of operations.  

Mattel owns, operates and manages manufacturing facilities and utilizes third-party manufacturers throughout Asia, primarily in China, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. The risk of political instability and civil unrest exists in certain of these countries, which could temporarily or permanently damage Mattel’s manufacturing operations located there. In the past, outbreaks of SARS have been significantly concentrated in Asia, particularly in Hong Kong, and in the Guangdong province of China, where many of Mattel’s manufacturing facilities and third-party manufacturers are located. The design, development and manufacture of Mattel’s products could suffer if a significant number of Mattel’s employees or the employees of its third-party manufacturers or their suppliers contract SARS, avian flu or other communicable diseases, or otherwise are unable to fulfill their obligations to Mattel. While Mattel has developed contingency plans designed to help mitigate the impact of disruptions in its manufacturing operations, its business, financial position, and results of operations could be negatively impacted by a significant disruption to its manufacturing operations or suppliers.  

Earthquakes or other catastrophic events out of Mattel’s control may damage its facilities or those of its contractors and harm Mattel’s results of operations.  

Mattel has significant operations near major earthquake faults, including its corporate headquarters in El Segundo, California. A catastrophic event where Mattel has important operations, such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, typhoon, fire, or other natural or manmade disaster, could disrupt Mattel’s operations or those of its contractors and impair production or distribution of its products, damage inventory, interrupt critical functions, or otherwise affect its business negatively, harming Mattel’s results of operations.  

The production and sale of private-label toys by Mattel’s retail customers may result in lower purchases of Mattel-branded products by those retail customers.  

In recent years, consumer goods companies, including those in the toy business, generally have experienced the phenomenon of retail customers developing their own private-label products that directly compete with the products of traditional manufacturers. Some retail chains that are customers of Mattel sell private-label toys designed, manufactured and branded by the retailers themselves. These toys may be sold at prices lower than comparable toys sold by Mattel and may result in lower purchases of Mattel-branded products by these retailers. In some cases, retailers who sell these private-label toys are larger than Mattel and may have substantially more resources than Mattel.  

Mattel depends on key personnel and may not be able to hire, retain, and integrate sufficient qualified personnel to maintain and expand its business.  

Mattel’s future success depends partly on the continued contribution of key executives, designers, technical, sales, marketing, manufacturing, and administrative personnel. The loss of services of any of Mattel’s key personnel could harm Mattel’s business. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel is costly and highly competitive. If Mattel fails to retain, hire, train, and integrate qualified employees and contractors, Mattel may not be able to maintain or expand its business.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Mattel may engage in acquisitions, mergers, or dispositions, which may affect the profit, revenues, profit margins, debt-to-capital ratio, capital expenditures, or other aspects of Mattel’s business. In addition, Mattel has certain anti-takeover provisions in its by-laws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Mattel without its consent, which may adversely affect Mattel’s stock price.  

Mattel may engage in acquisitions, mergers or dispositions, which may affect the profit, revenues, profit margins, debt-to-capital ratio, capital expenditures, or other aspects of Mattel’s business. There can be no assurance that Mattel will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or merger partners or that, if identified, it will be able to acquire these targets on terms acceptable to Mattel and to potential merger partners. There can also be no assurance that Mattel will be successful in integrating any acquired company into its overall operations, or that any such acquired company will operate profitably or will not otherwise adversely impact Mattel’s results of operations. Further, Mattel cannot be certain that key talented individuals at those acquired companies will continue to work for Mattel after the acquisition or that they will continue to develop popular and profitable products or services. In addition, Mattel has certain anti-takeover provisions in its by-laws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Mattel without its consent, which may adversely affect Mattel’s stock price.  

Mattel relies extensively on information technology in its operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security breach of that technology could have a material adverse impact on its business.  

Mattel relies extensively on information technology systems across its operations, including for management of its supply chain, sale and delivery of its products, reporting its results of operations, collection and storage of consumer data, personal data of customers, employees and other stakeholders, and various other processes and transactions. Many of these systems are managed by third-party service providers. Mattel’s ability to effectively manage its business and coordinate the production, distribution, and sale of its products depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems and third-party service providers. Mattel has exposure to similar security risks faced by other large companies that have data stored on their information technology systems. To its knowledge, Mattel has not experienced any material breach of its cybersecurity systems. The cybersecurity system of Mattel’s third party insurance provider has been recently compromised. If Mattel’s or its third-party service providers’ systems fail to operate effectively or are damaged, destroyed, or shut down, or there are problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or there are security breaches in these systems, any of the above which could occur as a result of natural disasters, software or equipment failures, telecommunications failures, loss or theft of equipment, acts of terrorism, circumvention of security systems, or other cyber-attacks, Mattel could experience delays or decreases in product sales, and reduced efficiency of its operations. Additionally, any of these events could lead to violations of privacy laws, loss of customers, or loss, misappropriation or corruption of confidential information, trade secrets or data, which could expose Mattel to potential litigation, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, any or all of which could adversely affect its business, and cause it to incur significant losses and remediation costs.  

The level of returns on pension plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for valuation purposes could affect Mattel’s earnings in future periods. Changes in standards and government regulations could also affect its pension plan expense and funding requirements.  

Assumptions used in determining projected benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for Mattel’s pension plan are evaluated by Mattel in consultation with outside actuaries. In the event that Mattel determines that changes are warranted in the assumptions used, such as the discount rate, expected long term rate of return, or health care costs, its future pension benefit expenses could increase or decrease. Due to changing market conditions or changes in the participant population, the actuarial assumptions that Mattel uses may differ from actual results, which could have a significant impact on its pension and postretirement liability and related costs. Funding obligations are determined based on the value of assets and liabilities on a specific date as required under relevant government regulations for each plan. Future pension funding requirements, and the timing of funding payments, could be affected by legislation enacted by the relevant governmental authorities.  

21  

Table of Contents 

If Mattel’s nonamortizable intangible assets or goodwill becomes impaired, Mattel’s results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Mattel tests its nonamortizable intangible assets, including trademarks and trade names, and goodwill for impairment annually or more often if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment may have occurred. The impairment test for nonamortizable intangible assets is performed by comparing the estimated fair values of the assets with their carrying values. Future changes in estimates used to determine the fair values may impact the fair value of Mattel’s intangible assets, which could result in a write-down, negatively impacting its results of operations. For purposes of evaluating whether goodwill is impaired, goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are at the operating segment level. Declines in profitability of Mattel’s reporting units may impact the fair value of its reporting units, which could result in a write-down of its goodwill, negatively impacting its results of operations.  

Mattel’s stock price has been volatile over the past several years and could decline in the future, resulting in losses for our investors.  

All the factors discussed in this section or any other material announcements or events could affect our stock price. In addition, quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, changes in investor and analyst perception of our business risks and conditions of our business, our ability to meet earnings estimates and other performance expectations of financial analysis or investors, unfavorable commentary or downgrades of our stock by research analysts, fluctuations in the stock prices of our peer companies or in stock markets in general, and general economic or political conditions could also cause the price of our stock to change. A significant drop in the price of our stock could expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, adversely affecting our business.  

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *  

If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary risk factors listed above actually occurs, Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. The risk factors listed above are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, Mattel operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict the impact of all of these factors on Mattel’s business, financial condition or results of operations, or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any other public statement made by Mattel or its representatives may turn out to be wrong. Mattel expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

 Item 2. Properties.