PART I  

 Item 1. Business.  

Throughout this report “Mattel” refers to Mattel, Inc. and/or one or more of its family of companies. Mattel designs, manufactures, and markets a broad variety of toy products worldwide which are sold to its customers and directly to consumers. Mattel’s vision is “creating the future of play.” Mattel’s objectives are to grow its share in the marketplace, continue to improve its operating margins, and create long-term stockholder value. To achieve these objectives, management has established the following strategies:  

The first strategy is to deliver consistent growth by investing in its core brands, optimizing entertainment partnerships, building new franchises, and working to expand and leverage its international footprint.  

The second strategy is to optimize operating margins through sustaining gross margins of about 50% over the long-term, and delivering on cost savings initiatives.  

The third strategy is to generate significant cash flow and continue its disciplined, opportunistic, and value-enhancing deployment.  

Mattel believes its products are among the most widely recognized toy products in the world. Mattel’s portfolio of brands and products are grouped into four major brand categories, including the Construction and Arts & Crafts brand category, which was introduced in the second quarter of 2014 with the acquisition of MEGA Brands Inc. (“MEGA Brands”).  

Mattel Girls & Boys Brands—including Barbie® fashion dolls and accessories (“Barbie”), Monster High®, Disney Classics®, Ever After High®, Little Mommy®, and Polly Pocket® (collectively “Other Girls”), Hot Wheels® and Matchbox® vehicles and play sets (collectively “Wheels”), and CARS®, Disney Planes™, BOOMco™, Radica®, Toy Story®, Max Steel®, WWE® Wrestling, Batman®, and games and puzzles (collectively “Entertainment”).  

Fisher-Price Brands—including Fisher-Price®, Little People®, BabyGear™, Laugh & Learn®, and Imaginext® (collectively “Core Fisher-Price”), Thomas & Friends™, Dora the Explorer®, Mickey Mouse® Clubhouse, and Disney Jake and the Never Land Pirates® (collectively “Fisher-Price Friends”), and Power Wheels®.  

American Girl Brands—including My American Girl®, BeForever™, and Bitty Baby®. American Girl Brands products are sold directly to consumers via its catalog, website, and proprietary retail stores. Its children’s publications are also sold to certain retailers.  

Construction and Arts & Crafts Brands—including MEGA BLOKS®, RoseArt®, and Board Dudes®.  

Mattel, Inc. was incorporated in California in 1948 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1968. Its executive offices are located at 333 Continental Blvd., El Segundo, California 90245-5012, telephone number (310) 252-2000.  

Business Segments  

Mattel’s operating segments are separately managed business units, consisting of: (i) North America, which consists of the US and Canada, (ii) International, and (iii) American Girl. The North America and International segments sell products in the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands, Fisher-Price Brands, and Construction and Arts & Crafts Brands categories, although some products are developed and adapted for particular international markets. 

For additional information on Mattel’s segment reporting, including revenues and segment income, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated  

3  

Table of Contents 

 Financial Statements—Segment Information.” For additional information regarding segment assets and geographic areas, see Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.” For additional information regarding revenues by brand category, see Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”  

For a discussion of the risks inherent in the foreign operations of Mattel, which affect each segment, see Item 1A “Risk Factors.”  

North America Segment  

The North America segment markets and sells toys in the US and Canada through the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands, Fisher-Price Brands, and Construction and Arts & Crafts Brands categories.  

In the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands category, Barbie includes Barbie fashion dolls and accessories. Other Girls includes Monster High, Disney Classics, Ever After High, Little Mommy, and Polly Pocket. Wheels includes Hot Wheels and Matchbox vehicles and play sets. Entertainment includes CARS, Disney Planes, BOOMco, Radica, Toy Story, Max Steel, WWE Wrestling, Batman, as well as games and puzzles.  

In 2015, Barbie will continue to inspire girls and remind them that “anything is possible.” The global campaign will be supported by innovative products, events, and strategic partnerships. In addition, Barbie will feature new products to support two animated launches, Barbie in Princess Power™ in spring 2015 and Barbie in Rock N’ Royals in fall 2015. Barbie will also continue to encourage girls to explore fashion through a new line of Fashionista dolls that reflect styles they see in the classrooms. Monster High will celebrate its fifth year with new characters, new scale, and new entertainment. A new Monster High DVD will be released in spring 2015 entitled Haunted and a second DVD, Boo York, Boo York: A Monsterrific Musical!, will be released in fall 2015. Monster High will introduce new larger scale dolls and vinyl figures in order to engage girls in a new way. Ever After High will continue to feature creative storylines and original characters in 2015. Ever After High will deliver new content through a Netflix original movie and Netflix original series and will also extend storylines through five new books by acclaimed author Susan Selfors. Ever After High will also offer new Royal and Rebel core doll extensions. New product extensions of Disney Princess® Frozen™ will accompany new short-form content with a new look for Anna and Elsa. In addition, timed to the release of Cinderella, there will be a targeted marketing strategy to engage consumers.  

In 2015, Hot Wheels will enable children to create and discover new play experiences through new vehicles and track sets, as well as immersive gaming and storytelling. Hot Wheels will continue to allow children to design, create, and customize their track creation by connecting existing tracks with new track pieces using the Track Builder™ System. In addition, Hot Wheels and Star Wars™ have come together for the first time to provide unique vehicle experiences for fans of all ages with both Star Wars-inspired cars and authentic replica vehicles. The Entertainment business will include new and innovative products based on CARS, Disney Planes, and Toy Story, as well as products to support Warner Bros.’ new animated series Batman Unlimited. WWE Wrestling will launch a new customizable line, Create A WWE Superstar, allowing kids to recreate their favorite moments in the ring. For games and puzzles, Mattel will continue offering products of its existing Bounce-off™, UNO®, and Pictionary® games, as well as celebrate Apples to Apples®’ 15th anniversary. In 2015, BOOMco will introduce high-performance functionality and new innovations engineered for the blaster-field.  

The Fisher-Price Brands category includes Fisher-Price, Little People, BabyGear, Laugh & Learn, Imaginext, Thomas & Friends, Dora the Explorer, Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, Disney Jake and the Never Land Pirates, and Power Wheels.  

Fisher-Price will introduce new innovative products for its BabyGear and core toy lines in 2015, including the Smart Connect™ Swing and Smart Connect Projection Mobile that will allow parents to control the products remotely without having to disturb their babies using Bluetooth technology. Supporting the Laugh & Learn infant  

4  

Table of Contents 

 line, Fisher-Price will introduce BeatBo, a new character that will get babies singing, dancing, and moving along. Also in 2015, Thomas & Friends will celebrate 70 years of friendship with a year’s worth of great products and programming. In summer 2015, the first permanent US theme park for Thomas & Friends, located at Edaville USA, will open to the public. Thomas & Friends will continue to be supported with new products, including Turbo Flip Thomas™ and Trackmaster® Shipwreck.  

The Construction and Arts & Crafts Brands category includes MEGA BLOKS, RoseArt, and Board Dudes.  

MEGA BLOKS will celebrate 30 years of construction in 2015 and will continue to expand its Preschool, Kids, and Collectors portfolios of building sets. MEGA BLOKS’ junior construction line will partner with Fisher-Price to offer Fisher-Price endorsed First Builders products. In honor of this year’s Thomas & Friends DVD release, Sodor’s Legend of the Lost Treasure, MEGA BLOKS will introduce a range of buildable Thomas construction sets that include motorized features. For boys, the brand will feature new MEGA BLOKS SpongeBob SquarePants™ and Despicable Me™ sets, each based on the franchises’ 2015 movie releases, The SpongeBob™ Movie: Sponge Out of Water and Minions. For girls, the brand will introduce a line of build & display Monster High sets with secret reveals, electronic features, and fully articulated mini-monster figures. The MEGA BLOKS Collectors portfolio will bring highly detailed builds, product features, and micro action figures based on the highly anticipated 2015 releases of Halo®, Call of Duty®, and Assassin’s Creed™ video games. New to the Collectors portfolio this year is the launch of MEGA BLOKS Terminator Genisys construction sets with all-new characters, vehicles, and locations.  

International Segment  

Products marketed by the International segment are generally the same as those developed and marketed by the North America segment, although some are developed or adapted for particular international markets. Mattel’s products are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence.  

Mattel’s International segment revenue represented 46% of worldwide consolidated gross sales in 2014. Within the International segment, Mattel operates in three regional groups that generated the following gross sales during 2014:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

No individual country within the International segment exceeded 6% of worldwide consolidated gross sales during 2014.  

The strength of the US dollar relative to other currencies can significantly affect the revenues and profitability of Mattel’s international operations. Mattel enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies, to limit the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on its results of operations and cash flows. See Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Derivative  

5  

Table of Contents 

 Instruments.” For financial information by geographic area, see Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”  

American Girl Segment  

The American Girl segment is a direct marketer, children’s publisher, and retailer best known for its flagship line of historical dolls, books, and accessories, as well as the My American Girl and Bitty Baby brands. American Girl also publishes best-selling Advice & Activity books and the award-winning American Girl magazine. In January 2015, American Girl introduced Grace Thomas™, the 2015 Girl of the Year® doll. American Girl products are sold in the US and Canada. Beginning in summer 2015, American Girl products will also be sold in Mexico.  

Manufacturing and Materials  

Mattel manufactures toy products for all segments in both company-owned facilities and through third-party manufacturers. Products are also purchased from unrelated entities that design, develop, and manufacture those products. To provide greater flexibility in the manufacture and delivery of its products, and as part of a continuing effort to reduce manufacturing costs, Mattel has concentrated production of most of its core products in company-owned facilities and generally uses third-party manufacturers for the production of non-core products.  

Mattel’s principal manufacturing facilities are located in Canada, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, and Thailand. To help avoid disruption of its product supply due to political instability, civil unrest, economic instability, changes in government policies or regulations, and other risks, Mattel produces its products in multiple facilities across multiple countries. Mattel believes that the existing production capacity at its own and its third-party manufacturers’ facilities is sufficient to handle expected volume in the foreseeable future. See Item 1A “Risk Factors.”  

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in a lack of product availability or excess inventory in a particular product line.  

The majority of Mattel’s raw materials are available from numerous suppliers but may be subject to fluctuations in price.  

Competition and Industry Background  

Mattel is a worldwide leader in the manufacture, marketing, and sale of toys. Competition in the toy industry is based primarily on quality, play value, and price. Mattel offers a diverse range of products for children of all ages and families that include, among others, toys for infants and preschoolers, girls’ toys, boys’ toys, youth electronics, hand-held and other games, puzzles, educational toys, media-driven products, and fashion-related toys. The North America segment competes with several large toy companies, including Bandai, Hasbro, Jakks Pacific, Leap Frog, Lego, MGA Entertainment, Spin Master, Tomy, and VTech, many smaller toy companies, and several manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. The International segment competes with global toy companies including Bandai, Hasbro, Lego, MGA Entertainment, Playmobil, Tomy, and VTech, other national and regional toy companies, and manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. Foreign regions may include competitors that are strong in a particular toy line or geographical area but do not compete with Mattel or other international toy companies worldwide. The American Girl segment competes with companies that manufacture girls’ toys and with children’s book publishers and retailers.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Competition among the above companies is intensifying due to recent trends towards shorter life cycles for individual toy products and an increasing use of high technology in toys. In addition, as a result of the phenomenon of “children getting older younger” resulting from children outgrowing toys at younger ages, Mattel competes with companies that sell products outside the toy aisle, such as electronic consumer products and video games. Competition continues to be heavily influenced by the fact that a small number of retailers account for a large portion of all toy sales, allocate the shelf space from which toys are viewed, and have direct contact with parents and children through in-store purchases, coupons, and print advertisements. Such retailers can and do promote their own private-label toys, facilitate the sale of competitors’ toys, and allocate shelf space to one type of toy over another. Competition is also intensifying due to the availability of online-only distributors, including Amazon.com, which are able to promote a wide variety of toys and represent a wide variety of toy manufacturers, and, with limited overhead, do so at a lower cost.  

Seasonality  

Mattel’s business is highly seasonal, with consumers making a large percentage of all toy purchases during the traditional holiday season. A significant portion of Mattel’s customers’ purchasing occurs in the third and fourth quarters of Mattel’s fiscal year in anticipation of holiday buying. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times create risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of less popular toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers have also been attempting to manage their inventories more tightly in recent years, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase the risk that Mattel may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times or that Mattel’s own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed. Additionally, as retailers manage their inventories, Mattel experiences cyclical ordering patterns for products and product lines that may cause its sales to vary significantly from period to period.  

In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three quarters of its fiscal year. Seasonal shipping patterns result in significant peaks in the third and fourth quarters in the respective levels of inventories and accounts receivable, which result in seasonal working capital financing requirements. See Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt.”  

Product Design and Development  

Through its product design and development group, Mattel regularly refreshes, redesigns, and extends existing toy product lines and develops innovative new toy product lines for all segments. Mattel believes its success is dependent on its ability to continue these activities effectively. See Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Product design and development activities are principally conducted by a group of professional designers and engineers employed by Mattel. During 2014, 2013, and 2012, Mattel incurred expenses of $209.5 million, $201.9 million, and $195.1 million, respectively, in connection with the design and development of products, exclusive of royalty payments. See Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Supplemental Financial Information.”  

Additionally, independent toy designers and developers bring concepts and products to Mattel and are generally paid a royalty on the net selling price of products licensed to Mattel. These independent toy designers may also create different products for other toy companies.  

Advertising and Marketing  

Mattel supports its product lines with extensive advertising and consumer promotions. Advertising takes place at varying levels throughout the year and peaks during the traditional holiday season. Advertising includes  

7  

Table of Contents 

 television and radio commercials, magazine, newspaper, and internet advertisements, and social media. Promotions include in-store displays, sweepstakes, merchandising materials, and major events focusing on products and tie-ins with various consumer products companies.  

During 2014, 2013, and 2012, Mattel incurred expenses of $733.2 million (12.2% of net sales), $750.2 million (11.6% of net sales), and $717.8 million (11.2% of net sales), respectively, for advertising and promotion.  

Sales  

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the North America segment are sold directly to retailers, including discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets, and, to a limited extent, wholesalers. Mattel also operates several small retail outlets, generally near or at its corporate headquarters and distribution centers as a service to its employees and as an outlet for its products. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence. Mattel also has retail outlets in Latin America and Europe that serve as outlets for its products. American Girl products are sold directly to consumers, and its children’s publications are also sold to certain retailers. Mattel has eighteen American Girl retail stores: American Girl Place in Chicago, Illinois, Los Angeles, California, and New York, New York, and American Girl stores in Alpharetta, Georgia, Bloomington, Minnesota, Charlotte, North Carolina, Chesterfield, Missouri, Columbus, Ohio, Dallas, Texas, Houston, Texas, Lone Tree, Colorado, Lynnwood, Washington, McLean, Virginia, Miami, Florida, Natick, Massachusetts, Orlando, Florida, Overland Park, Kansas, and Palo Alto, California, each of which features children’s products from the American Girl segment. American Girl also has a retail outlet in Oshkosh, Wisconsin that serves as an outlet for its products. Mattel also plans to open retail stores in Nashville, Tennessee and Scottsdale, Arizona in 2015. Additionally, Mattel sells certain of its products online through websites of one or more of its subsidiaries.  

During 2014, Mattel’s three largest customers (Wal-Mart at $1.1 billion, Toys “R” Us at $0.6 billion, and Target at $0.5 billion) accounted for approximately 35% of worldwide consolidated net sales. Within countries in the International segment, there is also a concentration of sales to certain large customers that do not operate in the US, none of which exceed 10% of net sales. The customers and the degree of concentration vary depending upon the region or nation. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”  

Licenses and Distribution Agreements  

Mattel has license agreements with third parties that permit Mattel to utilize the trademark, characters, or inventions of the licensor in products that Mattel sells. A number of these licenses relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations.  

Mattel has entered into agreements to license entertainment properties from, among others, Disney Enterprises, Inc. (including ©Disney characters such as Mickey Mouse, Disney Princess, Jake and the Never Land Pirates, Planes, CARS and Toy Story from Pixar, and certain Disney films and television properties), Viacom International, Inc. relating to its Nickelodeon® properties (including Dora the Explorer, and SpongeBob SquarePants), Warner Bros. Consumer Products (including Batman, Superman®, and Justice League®), and WWE Wrestling.  

Royalty expense for 2014, 2013, and 2012 was $242.4 million, $246.9 million, and $240.2 million, respectively. See “Commitments” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies.”  

8  

Table of Contents 

Mattel’s license agreement with Disney Enterprises, Inc. for the global rights to produce and sell toys based on Disney Princess characters is scheduled to expire at the end of 2015 and will not be renewed.  

Mattel also licenses a number of its trademarks and other property rights to others for use in connection with the sale of their products. Mattel distributes some third-party finished products that are independently designed and manufactured.  

Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents  

Most of Mattel’s products are sold under trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, and a number of these products incorporate patented devices or designs. Trademarks, copyrights, and patents are significant assets of Mattel in that they provide product recognition and acceptance worldwide.  

Mattel customarily seeks trademark, copyright, and patent protection covering its products, and it owns or has applications pending for US and foreign trademarks, copyrights, and patents covering many of its products. A number of these trademarks, copyrights, and patents relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations. Mattel believes its rights to these properties are adequately protected, but there can be no assurance that its rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged.  

Commitments  

In the normal course of business, Mattel enters into contractual arrangements for future purchases of goods and services to ensure availability and timely delivery and to obtain and protect Mattel’s right to create and market certain products. Certain of these commitments routinely contain provisions for guarantees or minimum expenditures during the term of the contracts. Current and future commitments for guaranteed payments reflect Mattel’s focus on expanding its product lines through alliances with businesses in other industries. Additionally, Mattel routinely enters into noncancelable lease agreements for premises and equipment used in the normal course of business.  

Agreements to purchase inventory, services, and other items with terms extending through 2018 contain future minimum payments totaling approximately $387 million. Licensing and similar agreements with terms extending through 2019 and beyond contain provisions for future guaranteed minimum payments totaling approximately $285 million. Operating lease commitments with terms extending through 2019 and beyond contain future minimum obligations totaling approximately $520 million. See Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Commitments” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Backlog  

Mattel ships products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by its customers, which usually request delivery within three months. In the toy industry, orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment. In recent years, a trend toward just-in-time inventory practices in the toy industry has resulted in fewer advance orders and therefore less backlog of orders. Mattel believes that the amount of backlog orders at any given time may not accurately indicate future sales.  

Financial Instruments  

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may impact Mattel’s results of operations and cash flows. Mattel seeks to mitigate its exposure to market risk by monitoring its foreign currency transaction exposure for the year and partially hedging such exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge its  

9  

Table of Contents 

 purchase and sale of inventory and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts generally have maturity dates of up to 18 months. In addition, Mattel manages its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through the selection of currencies used for international borrowings. Mattel does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.  

For additional information regarding foreign currency contracts, see “International Segment” above, Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Derivative Instruments.”  

Seasonal Financing  

See Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt.”  

Government Regulations and Environmental Quality  

Mattel’s products sold in the US are subject to the provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, and may also be subject to the requirements of the Flammable Fabrics Act or the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act and the regulations promulgated pursuant to such statutes. These statutes and the related regulations ban from the market consumer products that fail to comply with applicable product safety laws, regulations, and standards. The Consumer Product Safety Commission may require the recall, repurchase, replacement, or repair of any such banned products or products that otherwise create a substantial risk of injury and may seek penalties for regulatory noncompliance under certain circumstances. Similar laws exist in some US states. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these federal and state laws and regulations.  

Mattel’s products sold worldwide are subject to the provisions of similar laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, including the European Union and Canada. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.  

Mattel maintains a quality control program to help ensure compliance with applicable product safety requirements. Nonetheless, Mattel has experienced, and may in the future experience, issues in products that result in recalls, withdrawals, or replacements of products. A product recall could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s results of operations and financial condition, depending on the product affected by the recall and the extent of the recall efforts required. A product recall could also negatively affect Mattel’s reputation and the sales of other Mattel products. See Item 1A “Risk Factors.”  

Mattel’s advertising is subject to the Federal Trade Commission Act, The Children’s Television Act of 1990, the rules and regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, and the Federal Communications Commission, as well as laws of certain countries that regulate advertising and advertising to children. In addition, Mattel’s online and other digital communications activity are or may be subject to US and foreign privacy-related regulations, including the US Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 and the EU Data Protection Directive (Directive 95/46/EC) and related national regulations. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.  

Mattel’s worldwide operations are subject to the requirements of various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where those operations are located. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with those laws and regulations. Mattel’s operations are from time to time the subject of investigations, conferences, discussions, and negotiations with various federal, state and local environmental agencies within and outside the US with respect to the discharge or cleanup of hazardous waste. Mattel is not aware of any material cleanup liabilities.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Mattel is subject to various other federal, state, local and international laws and regulations applicable to its business. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.  

Employees  

The total number of persons employed by Mattel and its subsidiaries at any one time varies because of the seasonal nature of its manufacturing operations. As of December 31, 2014, Mattel’s total number of employees was approximately 31,000.  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The current executive officers of Mattel, all of whom are appointed annually by and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mr. Sinclair has been Chairman of the Board and Interim Chief Executive Officer since January 2015 and a member of the Board of Directors since 1996. Prior to assuming the role of Chairman of the Board and Interim Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Sinclair served as the Independent Lead Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors since 2011. From 2002 to 2008, he served as Executive Chairman of Scandent Holdings, an information technology investment company. From 2005 to 2009, he also served as Executive Chairman of Cambridge Solutions Corporation Ltd., a leader in providing information technology and business process outsourcing services. He also served as a Managing Director of Manticore Partners, LLC, a venture capital advisory firm, from 2000 to 2005, as an Operating Partner of Pegasus Capital Advisors, LP, a private equity firm, from 2000 to 2002 and as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Caribiner International, Inc. from 1999 to 2000. Earlier, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Quality Food, Inc., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Pepsi-Cola Company and President and Chief Executive Officer of PepsiCo Foods & Beverages International and Pepsi-Cola International for more than five years.  

Mr. Dickson has been President, Chief Brands Officer since January 2015. From May 2014 to January 2015, he served as Chief Brands Officer. From February 2010 to May 2014, he served as President and CEO of Branded Businesses at The Jones Group, Inc. From August 2008 to February 2010, he served as General Manager and Senior Vice President of Barbie at Mattel. From 2000 to 2008, he was Senior Vice President at  

11  

Table of Contents 

 Mattel overseeing Consumer Products, Marketing, Media, Entertainment and Packaging. Prior to Mattel, he served as Vice President of Brand Management and Merchandising at Estee Lauder Companies, Inc. and was principal with Gloss.com, an e-commerce beauty website he helped develop and manage until its acquisition by Estee Lauder. Mr. Dickson started his career and spent nearly a decade with Bloomingdale’s, a leading US fashion retailer.  

Mr. Farr has been Chief Financial Officer since February 2000. From September 1996 to February 2000, he was Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller. From June 1993 to September 1996, he served as Vice President, Tax. Prior to that, he served as Senior Director, Tax from August 1992 to June 1993.  

Mr. Gibbons has been Executive Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer since January 2015. From April 2013 to January 2015, he served as Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain. From July 2008 to November 2012, he served as Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain Operations at Starbucks Corporation. From February 2007 to July 2008 he served as Senior Vice President, Global Manufacturing Operations, at Starbucks Corporation. From March 1999 to February 2007, he was Executive Vice President, Supply Chain, for the Glidden Company, a subsidiary of ICI Americas, Inc., a global chemical company. Prior to that, he held various roles in operations, finance and engineering with ICI plc in Europe and Latin America and the Scottish Development Agency.  

Mr. Kaye has been Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer, since February 2011 and from July 1997 to February 2011 he was Senior Vice President, Human Resources. From June 1996 to June 1997 he was President, Texas Division of Kaufman and Broad Homes, a home building company. From June 1991 to June 1996, he served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Kaufman and Broad Homes. Prior to that, he worked for two years with the Hay Group, a compensation consulting firm and for 12 years with IBM in various human resources positions.  

Mr. Kilpin has been President, Chief Commercial Officer since January 2015. From May 2014 to January 2015, he served as Executive Vice President, International. From February 2011 to May 2014, he served as Executive Vice President, Global Brands Team—Boys & Girls. From February 2010 to February 2011, he served as General Manager and Senior Vice President, Mattel Brands El Segundo. Mr. Kilpin served as General Manager and Senior Vice President for the Girls, Boys and Games groups from November 2008 to February 2010 and for the Boys group from October 2005 to November 2008. Prior to rejoining Mattel as a Senior Vice President, Marketing in 2003, he was Executive Vice President of Studio Franchise Management at The Walt Disney Company. Mr. Kilpin first joined Mattel in August 1984 and until October 1999, held various marketing positions, culminating as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the then Character Brands business unit.  

Ms. McKenzie has been President of American Girl since January 2013 and also served as Executive Vice President of Mattel since September 2012. Prior to re-joining Mattel in October 2011 as Senior Vice President, Marketing, she was Senior Vice President for The Walt Disney Company from 2007 to 2010 and President and Chief Executive Officer of Gateway Learning Corporation from 1999 to 2005. From 1989 to 1998, Ms. McKenzie served in various executive positions at Mattel working on the Barbie brand, most recently as Executive Vice President and General Manager of Worldwide Barbie.  

Mr. Normile has been Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since February 2011, and from March 1999 to February 2011 he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. He served as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary from August 1994 to March 1999. From June 1992 to August 1994, he served as Assistant General Counsel. Prior to that, he was associated with the law firms of Latham & Watkins LLP and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  

Ms. Sadigh has been Senior Vice President and Corporate Treasurer since November 2010. She served as Senior Vice President, Mattel Brands Finance and Strategy from October 2005 to November 2010. From January 2001 to October 2005, she served as Senior Vice President in various leadership roles, including Corporate  

12  

Table of Contents 

 Strategic Planning, Sales Strategy, and International Finance. From December 1999 until January 2001, she served as Vice President and Assistant Controller. Prior to that, she served from August 1991 to December 1999 in Corporate Finance positions. Prior to joining Mattel, Ms. Sadigh spent eight years in the banking industry.  

Mr. Topham has been Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller since September 2005. He served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer from March 2005 to August 2005 and as Vice President and Treasurer from March 2004 to March 2005. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and Assistant Controller from May 2001 to March 2004. From August 2000 to May 2001, he served as Vice President and Treasurer of Premier Practice Management, Inc. From June 1999 to August 2000, he served as Division Vice President of Dataworks, Inc., a specialized publishing company. Prior to that, he spent eight years with Total Petroleum (North America) Ltd., most recently as Vice President of Human Resources.  

Mr. Walker has been Executive Vice President, Global Brands Teams—Fisher-Price since April 2013. From January 2011 to April 2013, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Mattel’s European businesses. From October 2010 through December 2010, he served as Senior Vice President Global Core Brands Marketing Strategy. From August 2008 to October 2010, he served as Senior Vice President Marketing. Mr. Walker held a variety of roles within the Mattel marketing organization from December 2000 to August 2008. Starting with Mattel in July 1995, Mr. Walker has held a variety of brand management positions within the Wheels, Entertainment and Games divisions.  

Available Information  

Mattel files its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that Mattel files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  

Mattel’s Internet website address is http://corporate.mattel.com. Mattel makes available on its Internet website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  

Item 1A. Risk Factors.