Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

 We discuss our expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes, such as our business outlook and objectives in this Form 10-K, the Annual Report to Shareholders, quarterly reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All statements, except for historical and present factual information, are “forward-looking statements” and are based on financial data and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become out of date or incomplete. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or other factors. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could significantly differ from our expectations.  

 The following discussion of “risk factors” identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this report. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our expectations. These factors could cause our future results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends.  

A material change in consumer demand for our products could have a significant impact on our business.  

 We are a consumer products company and rely on continued global demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to consumers. This is dependent on a number of factors including our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs in an increasingly fragmented media environment. We expect to achieve our financial targets, in part, by shifting our portfolio towards faster growing, higher margin businesses. If demand and growth rates fall substantially below expected levels or our market share declines significantly in these businesses, our results could be negatively impacted. This could occur due to unforeseen negative economic or political events or to changes in consumer trends and habits. In addition, our continued success is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations. This means we must be able to obtain patents that lead to the development of products that appeal to our consumers across the world.  

The ability to achieve our business objectives is dependent on how well we can respond to our local and global competitors.  

6   
 Across all of our categories, we compete against a wide variety of global and local competitors. As a result, there are ongoing competitive product and pricing pressures in the environments in which we operate, as well as challenges in maintaining profit margins. To address these challenges, we must be able to successfully respond to competitive factors, including pricing, promotional incentives and trade terms, as well as technological advances and patents granted to competition.  

Our ability to successfully integrate key acquisitions, such as Gillette, could impact our business results.  

 Since our goals include a growth component tied to acquisitions, we must be able to successfully manage and integrate key acquisitions, such as the acquisition of The Gillette Company. Specifically, we must be able to integrate acquisitions without any significant disruption to our ability to manage and execute business plans on our base businesses. In addition, our financial results could be adversely impacted if we are not able to deliver the expected cost and growth synergies associated with our acquisitions.  

Our businesses face cost pressures which could affect our business results.  

 Our costs are subject to fluctuations, particularly due to changes in commodity prices, raw materials, cost of labor, foreign exchange and interest rates. Our costs in 2008 were impacted by higher commodity costs and this trend is likely to continue in 2009. Therefore, our success is dependent, in part, on our continued ability to manage these fluctuations through pricing actions, cost savings projects (including outsourcing projects), sourcing decisions and certain hedging transactions. In the manufacturing and general overhead areas, we need to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including any key sole supplier and sole manufacturing plant arrangements.  

We face risks associated with significant international operations.  

 We conduct business across the globe with a significant portion of our sales outside the United States. We expect to achieve our financial targets, in part, by achieving disproportionate growth in developing regions. Should growth rates or our market share fall substantially below expected levels in these regions, our results could be negatively impacted. In addition, economic changes, terrorist activity and political unrest may result in business interruption, inflation, deflation or decreased demand for our products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to manage continued global political and/or economic uncertainty, especially in our significant geographical markets, as well as any political or economic disruption due to terrorist and other hostile activities.  

Our business is subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad.  

 Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business. This includes changes in environmental, competitive and product-related laws, as well as changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements. Accordingly, our ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters (including product liability, patent, and intellectual property matters), and to resolve pending legal matters without significant liability, including the competition law and antitrust investigations described in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K, which could require the Company to take significant reserves or pay significant fines during a reporting period, may materially impact our results.  

If the reputation of one or more of our leading brands erodes significantly, it could have a material impact on our financial results.  

7   
 Our Company’s financial success is directly dependent on the success of our brands, particularly our billion-dollar brands. The success of these brands can suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand’s image or its ability to attract consumers. Further, our Company’s results could be negatively impacted if one of our leading brands suffers a substantial impediment to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues.  

A material change in customer relationships or in customer demand for our products could have a significant impact on our business.  

 Our success is dependent on our ability to successfully manage relationships with our retail trade customers. This includes our ability to offer trade terms that are acceptable to our customers and are aligned with our pricing and profitability targets. Our business could suffer if we cannot reach agreement with a key customer based on our trade terms and principles. Further, there is a continuing trend towards retail trade consolidation and this leads to more complex work across broader geographic boundaries for both us and key retailers. This can be particularly difficult when major customers are addressing local trade pressures or local law and regulation changes. Further, our business would be negatively impacted if a key customer were to significantly reduce the range or inventory level of our products.   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

 None.   

Item 2. Properties.