PART I   

Item 1. Business.  

 Additional information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Management’s Discussion and Analysis, which appears on pages 39-55; Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which appears on pages 60-63; Note 2, Acquisitions, which appears on page 63; and Note 12, Segment Information, which appears on pages 74-75 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms the “Company,” “P&G,” “we,” “our” or “us” as used herein refers to The Procter & Gamble Company (the registrant) and its subsidiaries.  

 The Procter & Gamble Company is focused on providing branded consumer goods products of superior quality and value to improve the lives of the world’s consumers. The Company was incorporated in Ohio in 1905, having been built from a business founded in 1837 by William Procter and James Gamble. Today, we market our products in more than 180 countries.  

 Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  

 The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K are filed electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains these reports at: http://www.sec.gov. You can also access these reports through links from our website at: www.pg.com/investors/sectionmain.shtml.  

 Copies of these reports are also available, without charge, by contacting The Procter & Gamble Company, Shareholder Services Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572.  

Financial Information About Segments  

 In fiscal year 2008, the Company was organized into three Global Business Units: Beauty; Health & Well-Being; and Household Care. We had six reportable segments under U.S. GAAP: Beauty; Grooming; Health Care; Snacks, Coffee and Pet Care; Fabric Care and Home Care; and Baby Care and Family Care. Many of the factors necessary for an understanding of these businesses are similar. Operating margins of the individual businesses vary slightly due to the nature of materials and processes used to manufacture the products, the capital intensity of the businesses and differences in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales. Net sales growth by business is also expected to vary slightly due to the underlying growth of the markets of each business and products. While none of our reportable segments are highly seasonal, components within certain of our reportable segments, such as batteries (Fabric Care and Home Care), appliances (Grooming) and prestige fine fragrances (Beauty) are seasonal. In addition, anticipation or occurrence of natural disasters, such as hurricanes, can drive unusually high demand for batteries.  

 Additional information about our businesses can be found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis, pages 39-55, and Note 12, Segment Information, which appears on pages 74-75 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008.  

2   
Narrative Description of Business  

 Business Model. Our business model relies on the continued growth and success of existing brands and products, as well as the creation of new products. The markets and industry segments in which we offer our products are highly competitive. Our products are sold in over 180 countries around the world primarily through mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores and in “high-frequency stores,” the neighborhood stores which serve many consumers in developing markets. We work collaboratively with our customers to improve the in-store presence of our products and win the “first moment of truth” — when a consumer is shopping in the store. We must also win the “second moment of truth” — when a consumer uses the product, evaluates how well it met his or her expectations and whether it was a good value. We believe we must continue to provide new, innovative products and branding to the consumer in order to grow our business. Research and product development activities, designed to enable sustained organic growth, continued to carry a high priority during the past fiscal year. While many of the benefits from these efforts will not be realized until future years, we believe these activities demonstrate our commitment to future growth.  

 Key Product Categories. In 2008, one product category accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales. The laundry category constituted approximately 16% of net sales for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

 Key Customers. Our customers include mass merchandisers, grocery stores, membership club stores, drug stores and high-frequency stores. Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately 15% of our total revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006. No other customer represents more than 10% of our net sales. Our top ten customers account for approximately 31% of our total unit volume in 2008, compared to 30% of total unit volume in 2007 and 31% in 2006. The nature of our business results in no material backlog orders or contracts with the government. We believe our practices related to working capital items for customers and suppliers are consistent with the industry segments in which we compete.  

 Sources and Availability of Materials. Almost all of the raw and packaging materials used by the Company are purchased from others, some of whom are single-source suppliers. We produce raw materials, primarily chemicals, for further use in the manufacturing process. In addition, fuel, natural gas and derivative products are important commodities used in our plants, products and in the trucks used to deliver our products to customers. The prices we pay for materials and other commodities are subject to fluctuation. When prices for these items change, we may or may not pass on the change to our customers, depending on the magnitude and expected duration of the change. The Company purchases a substantial variety of other raw and packaging materials, no one of which is material to our business taken as a whole.  

 Trademarks and Patents. We own or have licenses under patents and registered trademarks which are used in connection with our activity in all businesses. Some of these patents or licenses cover significant product formulation and processes used to manufacture our products. The trademarks are important to the overall marketing and branding of our products. All major products and trademarks in each business are registered. In part, our success can be attributed to the existence and continued protection of these trademarks, patents and licenses.  

3   
 Competitive Condition. The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive. Our products compete against similar products of many large and small companies, including well-known global competitors. We market our products with advertising, promotions and other vehicles to build awareness of our brands in conjunction with an extensive sales force. We believe this combination provides the most efficient method of marketing for these types of products. Product quality, performance, value and packaging are also important competitive factors.  

 Research and Development Expenditures. Research and development expenditures enable us to develop technologies and obtain patents across all categories in order to meet the needs and improve the lives of our consumers. Total research and development expenses were $2,226 million in 2008, $2,112 million in 2007 and $2,075 million in 2006.  

 Expenditures for Environmental Compliance. Expenditures for compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations are fairly consistent from year to year and are not material to the Company. No material change is expected in fiscal year 2009.  

 Employees. The Company has approximately 138,000 employees.  

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations  

 Net sales in the United States account for approximately 40% of total net sales. No other individual country had net sales exceeding 10% of total net sales. Operations outside the United States are generally characterized by the same conditions discussed in the description of the business above and may also be affected by additional factors including changing currency values, different rates of inflation, economic growth and political and economic uncertainties and disruptions. Our sales by geography for the fiscal years ended June 30 were as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Developing markets include Latin America, Central & Eastern Europe/Middle East and Africa, Greater China, and ASEAN/Australasia/India.  

 Net sales and assets in the United States and internationally were as follows (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

4   
Development of the Business  

 The discussion below provides insight to the general development of our business, including the material acquisitions and disposition of assets over the past five years.  

 Gillette Acquisition. On October 1, 2005, we completed the acquisition of The Gillette Company. Pursuant to the acquisition agreement, which provided for the exchange of 0.975 shares of The Procter & Gamble Company common stock, on a tax-free basis, for each share of The Gillette Company, we issued 962 million shares of The Procter & Gamble Company common stock. We also issued 79 million stock options in exchange for The Gillette Company’s outstanding stock options. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total consideration was approximately $53.43 billion including common stock, the fair value of vested stock options and acquisition costs.  

 The acquisition of The Gillette Company provided us with global market leadership in male grooming, selected female grooming products, alkaline batteries and in manual and power toothbrushes. Total sales for The Gillette Company during its most recent pre-acquisition year ended December 31, 2004 were $10.5 billion.  

 In order to obtain regulatory approval of the transaction, we were required to divest certain overlapping businesses. We completed the divestiture of the Spinbrush toothbrush business, Rembrandt (a Gillette oral care product line) and Right Guard and other Gillette deodorant brands during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006.  

 Juice Divestiture. In August 2004 the Company completed the divestiture of its Juice business.  

 Wella Acquisition. In September 2003, the Company acquired a controlling interest in Wella. Through a stock purchase agreement with the majority shareholders of Wella and a tender offer made on the remaining shares, we acquired approximately 81% of the outstanding Wella shares (99% of the voting class shares and 45% of the preference shares). In June 2004, a Company’s subsidiary and Wella entered into a Domination and Profit Transfer Agreement (the Domination Agreement). Under the Domination Agreement, we are entitled to exercise full operating control and receive 100% of the future earnings of Wella. As consideration for the Domination Agreement, we agreed to pay the remaining shareholders of Wella a guaranteed annual dividend payment. Alternatively, the remaining Wella shareholders could have elected to tender their shares to the Company for an agreed price. The fair value of the total guaranteed annual dividend payments was $1.11 billion, which is the approximate cost if all remaining shares were tendered. During the year ended June 30, 2006, a portion of the remaining shares were tendered, resulting in a $944 million reduction in our liability under the Domination Agreement. In December 2005, the Wella shareholder meeting approved the squeeze-out of the remaining shareholders. Upon the registration of the squeeze-out in the commercial register on November 12, 2007, the remaining shares of the minority shareholders were transferred to the Company in exchange for a pre-determined cash consideration. While the Domination Agreement transaction, including the guaranteed dividend payment and the cash offer, as well as the squeeze-out transaction, including the cash consideration, have been challenged by the former minority shareholders, the Company now owns 100% of the Wella stock.  

5   
 The total purchase price for Wella, including acquisition costs and the costs of the guaranteed dividend and squeeze-out payments, was $6.27 billion based on exchange rates at the acquisition dates. The acquisition was financed by a mixture of available cash balances, debt and the liability recorded under the Domination Agreement.  

 Hutchison Acquisition. In June 2004, we purchased the remaining 20% stake of our China venture from our partner, Hutchison Whampoa China Ltd. (Hutchison), giving us full ownership of our operations in China. The net purchase price was $1.85 billion, which is the purchase price of $2.00 billion net of minority interest and certain obligations that were eliminated as a result of the transaction. The acquisition was funded by debt.   

Item 1A. Risk Factors.