ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

Our business faces many risks and uncertainties that we cannot control. Any of the risks discussed below, as well as factors described in other places in this Form 10-K, or in our other filings with the SEC, could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, these items could cause our future results to differ from those in any of our forward-looking statements. These risks are not the only ones we face. Other risks that we do not presently know about or that we presently believe are not material could also adversely affect us.  

Significant increases in prices for raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services, without corresponding increases in our selling prices, could adversely affect our financial results.  

Increases in the cost of and availability of raw materials, including pulp and petroleum-based materials, the cost of energy, transportation and other necessary services, supplier constraints, an inability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relations or an inability to avoid disruptions in production output caused by events such as natural disasters, power outages, labor strikes, governmental regulatory requirements or nongovernmental voluntary actions in response to global climate change concerns, and the like could have an adverse effect on our financial results.  

Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or recycled fiber from recovered waste paper, is used extensively in our tissue products and is subject to significant price fluctuations due to the cyclical nature of these fiber markets. Cellulose fiber, in the form of fluff pulp, is a key component in our personal care products. Increases in pulp prices could adversely affect our earnings if selling prices for our finished products are not adjusted or if these adjustments significantly trail the increases in pulp prices. Derivative instruments have not been used to manage these risks.  

A number of our products, such as diapers, training and youth pants, incontinence care products, disposable wipes and various health care products, contain certain materials that are principally derived from petroleum. These materials are subject to price fluctuations based on changes in petroleum prices, availability and other factors. We purchase these materials from a number of suppliers. Significant increases in prices for these materials could adversely affect our earnings if selling prices for our finished products are not adjusted or if adjustments significantly trail the increases in prices for these materials. Derivative instruments have not been used to manage these risks.  

Although we believe that the supplies of raw materials needed to manufacture our products are adequate, global economic conditions, supplier capacity constraints, natural disasters and other factors (including actions taken to address climate change and related market responses) could affect the availability of, or prices for, those raw materials.  

Our manufacturing operations utilize electricity, natural gas and petroleum-based fuels. To ensure that we use all forms of energy cost-effectively, we maintain ongoing energy efficiency improvement programs at all of our manufacturing sites. Our contracts with energy suppliers vary as to price, payment terms, quantities and duration. Our energy costs are also affected by various market factors including the availability of supplies of  

4  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

 particular forms of energy, energy prices and local and national regulatory decisions (including actions taken to address climate change and related market responses). There can be no assurance that we will be fully protected against substantial changes in the price or availability of energy sources. Derivative instruments are used to manage a portion of natural gas price risk in accordance with our risk management policy.  

Increased pricing pressure, intense competition for sales of our products and the inability to innovate effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial results.  

We compete in intensely competitive markets against well-known, branded products and low-cost or private label products both domestically and internationally. Inherent risks in our competitive strategy include uncertainties concerning trade and consumer acceptance, the effects of consolidation within retailer and distribution channels, and competitive reaction. Our competitors for these markets include not only our traditional competitors but also private label manufacturers, low-cost manufacturers and rapidly-expanding international manufacturers. These competitors may have greater financial resources and greater market penetration, which enable them to offer a wider variety of products and services at more competitive prices. Alternatively, some of these competitors may have significantly lower product development and manufacturing costs, allowing them to offer products at a lower cost. The actions of these competitors could adversely affect our financial results. It may be necessary for us to lower prices on our products and increase spending on advertising and promotions, each of which could adversely affect our financial results.  

Our ability to develop new products is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate consumer needs and preferences, develop and fund technological innovations, and receive and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection. In addition, we incur substantial development and marketing costs in introducing new and improved products and technologies. The introduction of a new consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually requires substantial expenditures for advertising and marketing to gain recognition in the marketplace. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising and promotional support to maintain its relative market position. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions.  

There is no guarantee that we will be successful in developing new and improved products and technologies necessary to compete successfully in the industry or that we will be successful in advertising, marketing, timely launching and selling our products.  

Global economic conditions, including recessions or slow economic growth, and continuing global credit market volatility, could continue to adversely affect our business and financial results.  

Unfavorable global economic conditions, including the impact of recessions, slow economic growth, economic and pricing instability and credit market volatility, may continue to negatively affect our business and financial results. These economic conditions could negatively impact:  

   •    consumer demand for our products, including shifting consumer purchasing patterns to lower-cost options such as private-label products,  

   •    demand by businesses for our products, including effects of increased unemployment and cost savings efforts of those customers,  

   •    the mix of our products’ sales, and  

   •    our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis from certain customers.  

5  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

Ongoing volatility in global commodity, currency and financial markets has continued to result in uncertainty in the business environment. We rely on access to the credit markets, specifically the commercial paper and public bond markets, to provide supplemental funding for our operations. Although we have not experienced a disruption in our ability to access the credit markets, it is possible that we may have difficulty accessing the credit markets in the future, which may disrupt our businesses or further increase our cost of funding our operations. 

Prolonged recessions, slow economic growth or credit market disruptions could result in decreased revenue, margins and earnings.  

Changes in the policies of our retail trade customers and increasing dependence on key retailers in developed markets may adversely affect our business.  

Our products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace, which is experiencing increased concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. With the consolidation of retail trade, especially in developed markets such as the U.S., Europe and Australia, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, and some of these retailers, including large-format retailers, may have greater bargaining power. They may use this leverage to demand higher trade discounts or allowances which could lead to reduced profitability. We may also be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retail trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, delisting of our products, additional requirements related to safety, environmental, social and other sustainability issues, and other conditions. If we lose a significant customer or if sales of our products to a significant customer materially decrease, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.  

If we are unable to hire, develop or retain key employees or a skilled and diverse workforce, it could have an adverse effect on our business.  

Our strategy includes a focus on hiring, developing and retaining our management team and a skilled and diverse international workforce. A skilled and diverse international workforce is a significant factor in developing product innovation, as well as providing key viewpoints representative of our international consumer base. We compete to hire new employees and then seek to train them to develop their skills. Unplanned turnover or failure to develop an effective succession plan for our leadership positions, or to hire and retain a diverse, skilled workforce, could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully recruit, develop and retain the key personnel that we need.  

Our international operations are subject to foreign market risks, including foreign exchange risk, currency restrictions and political instability, which may adversely affect our financial results.  

Because we and our equity companies have manufacturing facilities in 39 countries, with products sold in more than 150 countries, our results may be substantially affected by foreign market risks. We are subject to the impact of economic and political instability in developing countries.  

We are subject to the movement of various currencies against each other and versus the U.S. dollar. A portion of the exposures, arising from transactions and commitments denominated in non-local currencies, is systematically managed through foreign currency forward and swap contracts. We do not generally hedge our translation exposure with respect to foreign operations.  

Weaker foreign currency exchange rates increase the potential impact of forecasted increases in dollar-based input costs for operations outside the U.S. There can be no assurance that we will be protected against substantial foreign currency fluctuations.  

6  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

In addition, we face increased risks in our international operations, including currency restrictions, adverse political and economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, tariffs and other trade barriers, risks of expropriation, difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Each of these factors could adversely affect our financial results. See MD&A and Item 8, Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for information about the effects of currency restrictions, currency devaluation and inflation in Venezuela on our financial results in 2010.  

In addition, intense competition in European personal care and tissue markets, and the challenging economic, political and competitive environments in Latin America, Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia may slow our sales growth and earnings potential. Our success internationally also depends on our ability to acquire or form successful business alliances, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to acquire or form these alliances. In addition, there can be no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular market.  

There is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts to reduce costs will be successful.  

We continue to implement plans to improve our competitive position by achieving cost reductions in our operations. In addition, we expect ongoing cost savings from our continuous improvement activities. We anticipate these continuing cost savings will result from reducing material costs and manufacturing waste and realizing productivity gains, distribution efficiencies and overhead reductions in each of our business segments. See MD&A. If we cannot successfully implement our cost savings plans, we may not realize all anticipated benefits. Any negative impact these plans have on our relationships with employees or customers or any failure to generate the anticipated efficiencies and savings could adversely affect our financial results.  

Damage to the reputation of Kimberly-Clark or to one or more of our brands could adversely affect our business.  

Developing and maintaining our reputation, as well as the reputation of our brands, is a critical factor in our relationship with consumers, customers, suppliers and others. Our inability to address adverse publicity or other issues, including concerns about product safety, quality, efficacy or similar matters, real or perceived, could negatively impact sentiments towards us and our products, and our business and financial results could suffer. Our business and results could also be negatively impacted by the effects of a significant product recall, product-related litigation, allegations of product tampering or contamination or the distribution and sale of counterfeit products.  

Our sales may not occur as estimated.  

There is no guarantee that we will be able to anticipate consumer preferences, estimate sales of new products, estimate changes in population characteristics and the acceptance of our products in new markets or anticipate changes in technology and competitive responses. As a result, we may not be able to achieve anticipated sales.  

Pending litigation, administrative actions, tax matters, regulatory requirements and new legal requirements could have an adverse effect.  

There is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending against legal and administrative actions or in asserting our rights under various laws, including intellectual property laws. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in defending against or in asserting our rights in these actions.  

We are subject to income tax requirements in various jurisdictions in the United States and internationally. Increases in applicable tax rates, changes in applicable tax laws and actions by tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate could reduce our after-tax income and have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

7  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

Aspects of our business, including Health Care, are subject to many laws and governmental regulations, including regulations by the Food and Drug Administration and comparable foreign agencies, as well as potential litigation. Adverse regulatory action, including a recall, or product liability or other litigation may adversely affect our financial condition and business operations.  

Our sales and results of operations also may be adversely affected by new legal requirements, including health care reform legislation and climate change and other environmental legislation and regulations. The costs and other effects of pending litigation and administrative actions against us and new legal requirements cannot be determined with certainty. For example, new legislation or regulations may result in increased costs to us, directly for our compliance or indirectly to the extent suppliers increase prices of goods and services because of increased compliance costs or reduced availability of raw materials.  

Although we believe that none of these proceedings or requirements will have a material adverse effect on us, there can be no assurance that the outcome of these proceedings or effects of new legal requirements will be as expected. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”.  

We may acquire or divest product lines or businesses, which could impact our results.  

We may pursue acquisitions of new product lines or businesses. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired product lines or businesses, estimation and assumption of liabilities and contingencies, personnel turnover and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We may be unable to identify suitable additional acquisition candidates or may be unable to successfully integrate and manage product lines or businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits or cost savings from acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all.  

The inability to integrate and manage acquired product lines or businesses in a timely and efficient manner, the inability to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate or the unanticipated required increases in trade, promotional or capital spending from these acquisitions could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.  

Moreover, acquisitions could result in substantial additional indebtedness, exposure to contingent liabilities such as litigation or the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.  

Alternatively, we may periodically divest product lines or businesses, which may adversely impact our results if we are unable to offset the dilutive impacts from the loss of revenue associated with the divested products or businesses.  

We obtain certain manufactured products and administrative services from third parties. If the third-party providers fail to satisfactorily perform, our operations could be adversely impacted.  

Third parties manufacture some of our products and provide certain administrative services. Disruptions or delays at the third-party manufacturers or service providers due to regional economic, business, environmental, or political events, or information technology system failures or military actions, or the failure of these manufacturers or service providers to otherwise satisfactorily perform, could adversely impact our operations, sales, payments to our vendors, employees, and others, and our ability to report financial and management  

8  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

 information on a timely and accurate basis. Administrative functions transferred to third-party service providers include certain information technology, finance and accounting, sourcing and supply management, and human resources services. Although moving these administrative functions to third-party service providers has improved certain capabilities and lowered our cost of operations, we could experience disruptions in the quality and timeliness of the services.  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES