PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Kimberly-Clark Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1928. We are a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life through product innovation and building our personal care, consumer tissue, K-C Professional & Other and health care brands. We are principally engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of a wide range of essential products to improve people’s lives around the world. Most of these products are made from natural or synthetic fibers using advanced technologies in fibers, nonwovens and absorbency. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “Corporation,” “Kimberly-Clark,” “K-C,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to Kimberly-Clark Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

For financial information by business segment and geographic area, and information about our principal products and markets, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (MD&A) and Item 8, Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Recent Developments  

Effective January 1, 2010, our Venezuelan subsidiary (“K-C Venezuela”) began accounting for its operations as highly inflationary. As a result, we remeasured K-C Venezuela’s bolivar-denominated net monetary asset position using a parallel exchange rate of approximately 6 bolivars per U.S. dollar and recorded an after-tax charge of $96 million in the first quarter of 2010. For additional information, see MD&A and Item 8, Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

On January 21, 2011, we initiated a pulp and tissue restructuring plan in order to exit our remaining integrated pulp manufacturing operations and improve the underlying profitability and return on invested capital of our consumer tissue and K-C Professional businesses. The restructuring is expected to be completed by the end of 2012 and will involve the streamlining, sale or closure of 5 to 6 of our manufacturing facilities around the world. In conjunction with these actions, we will be exiting certain non-strategic products, primarily non-branded offerings, and transferring some production to lower-cost facilities in order to improve overall profitability and returns. For additional information, see MD&A and Item 8, Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

During 2010, we repurchased approximately 12.8 million shares of our common stock at a cost of about $800 million. We expect to repurchase $1.5 billion of our common stock in 2011, subject to market conditions. For additional information see Item 5, “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” and MD&A.  

Description of Kimberly-Clark  

We are organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into four reportable global business segments. Information on these four segments, as well as their principal sources of revenue, is included below.  

   •    Personal Care, which manufactures and markets disposable diapers, training and youth pants, swimpants, baby wipes, feminine and incontinence care products, and related products. Products in this segment are primarily for household use and are sold under a variety of brand names, including Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, Kotex, Lightdays, Depend, Poise and other brand names.  

   •    Consumer Tissue, which manufactures and markets facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins and related products for household use. Products in this segment are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Viva, Andrex, Scottex, Hakle, Page and other brand names.  

   •    K-C Professional & Other, which manufactures and markets facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins, wipers and a range of safety products for the away-from-home marketplace. Products in this segment are sold under the Kimberly-Clark, Kleenex, Scott, WypAll, Kimtech, KleenGuard, Kimcare and Jackson brand names.  

1  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

   •    Health Care, which manufactures and markets health care products such as surgical drapes and gowns, infection control products, face masks, exam gloves, respiratory products, pain management products and other disposable medical products. Products in this segment are sold under the Kimberly-Clark, Ballard, ON-Q and other brand names.  

These reportable segments were determined in accordance with how our chief operating decision maker and our executive managers develop and execute our global strategies to drive growth and profitability of our worldwide Personal Care, Consumer Tissue, K-C Professional & Other and Health Care operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and development programs, cost reductions including supply chain management, and capacity and capital investments for each of these businesses.  

Revenue, profit and total assets of each reportable segment are shown in Item 8, Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Products for household use are sold directly, and through wholesalers, to supermarkets, mass merchandisers, drugstores, warehouse clubs, variety and department stores and other retail outlets. Products for away-from-home use are sold through distributors and directly to manufacturing, lodging, office building, food service, health care establishments and high volume public facilities. In addition, certain products are sold to converters.  

Net sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. were approximately 13 percent in both 2010 and 2009, and 14 percent in 2008.  

Patents and Trademarks  

We own various patents and trademarks registered domestically and in many foreign countries. We consider the patents and trademarks which we own and the trademarks under which we sell certain of our products to be material to our business. Consequently, we seek patent and trademark protection by all available means, including registration.  

Raw Materials  

Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or fiber recycled from recovered waste paper, is the primary raw material for our tissue products and is a component of disposable diapers, training pants, feminine pads and incontinence care products.  

Superabsorbent materials are important components of disposable diapers, training and youth pants and incontinence care products. Polypropylene and other synthetics and chemicals are the primary raw materials for manufacturing nonwoven fabrics, which are used in disposable diapers, training and youth pants, wet wipes, feminine pads, incontinence and health care products, and away-from-home wipers.  

Most recovered paper, synthetics, pulp and recycled fiber are purchased from third parties. We consider the supply of these raw materials to be adequate to meet the needs of our businesses. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”  

Competition  

We have several major competitors in most of our markets, some of which are larger and more diversified than us. The principal methods and elements of competition include brand recognition and loyalty, product innovation, quality and performance, price, and marketing and distribution capabilities. For additional discussion of the competitive environment in which we conduct our business, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”  

2  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

Research and Development  

Research and development expenditures are directed toward new or improved personal care, tissue, wiping, safety and health care products and nonwoven materials. Consolidated research and development expense was $317 million in 2010, $301 million in 2009 and $297 million in 2008.  

Foreign Market Risks  

We operate and market our products globally, and our business strategy includes targeted growth in Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Eastern Europe. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of foreign market risks that may affect our financial results.  

Environmental Matters  

Total worldwide capital expenditures for voluntary environmental controls or controls necessary to comply with legal requirements relating to the protection of the environment at our facilities are expected to be as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total worldwide operating expenses for environmental compliance, including pollution control equipment operation and maintenance costs, governmental payments, and research and engineering costs are expected to be as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total environmental capital expenditures and operating expenses are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position. These expected amounts do not include potential remediation costs associated with our pulp and tissue restructuring plan (see “Recent Developments”) as the outcome related to the streamlining, sale or closure of the 5 to 6 facilities is not known. Current environmental spending estimates could be modified as a result of changes in our plans, changes in legal requirements, including any requirements related to global climate change, or other factors.  

Employees  

In our worldwide consolidated operations, we had approximately 57,000 employees as of December 31, 2010.  

Available Information  

We make financial information, news releases and other information available on our corporate website at www.kimberly-clark.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on  

3  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

(Continued)  

 Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on this website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Stockholders may also contact Stockholder Services, P.O. Box 612606, Dallas, Texas 75261-2606 or call 972-281-1522 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS