Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

 Executive Summary 

 We are a strategic holding company. We provide professional services to clients through multiple agencies around the world. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our agencies provide these services in the following disciplines: traditional media advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our companies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is that our clients’ specific requirements should be the central focus in how we structure our business offerings and allocate our resources. This client-centric business model results in multiple agencies collaborating in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal organizational structures to deliver consistent brand messages for a specific client and execute against each of our client’s specific marketing requirements. We continually seek to grow our business with our existing clients by maintaining our client-centric approach, as well as expanding our existing business relationships into new markets and with new clients. In addition, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary companies with strong, entrepreneurial management teams that typically either currently serve or have the ability to serve our existing client base. 

 In recent years, certain business trends have affected our business and our industry. These trends include our clients increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets to pan-regional and global markets and integrating traditional and non-traditional marketing channels, as well as utilizing interactive technologies and new media outlets. Additionally, in an effort to gain greater efficiency and effectiveness from their total marketing budgets, clients are increasingly requiring greater coordination of marketing activities and concentrating these activities with a smaller number of service providers. We believe these trends have benefitted our business in the past and, over the long term, will continue to provide a competitive advantage to us. 

 Contractions in the availability of business and consumer credit, a decrease in consumer spending, a significant rise in unemployment and other factors have all led to increasingly volatile capital markets over the course of 2008. During recent months, the financial services, automotive and other sectors of the global economy have come under increased pressure, resulting in, among other consequences, extraordinarily difficult conditions in the capital and credit markets and a global economic recession that has negatively impacted our clients’ spending on the services that our agencies provide. 

 As one of the world’s leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies, we operate in all major markets of the global economy. We have a large and diverse client base. Our largest client represented 2.8% or our consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008 and no other client accounted for more than 2.1% of our consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our top 100 clients accounted for 47.2% of our consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Our business is spread across a significant number of industry sectors with no one industry comprising more than 15% of revenue from our 1,000 largest clients for the year ended December 31, 2008. Although our revenues are generally balanced between the U.S. and international markets and we have a large and diverse client base, we are not immune to global economic conditions. 

 During the second half of 2008, we experienced a decline in the rate of growth of our revenue compared to the second half of 2007 and, due to rapidly changing economic conditions, we have less visibility than we historically have had regarding client spending plans in the near term. During previous periods of economic downturn, our industry experienced slower growth rates and industry-wide margin contractions. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2008, in response to reductions in client spending, we took action to reduce our salary and service costs by reducing incentive compensation and through actions to limit our discretionary spending. Additionally, in anticipation of reductions in client spending in 2009, we reduced our work force in the fourth quarter of 2008 and we incurred expenses related to severance benefits. Continued economic uncertainty and reductions in consumer spending may result in further reductions in client spending levels that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We intend to continue to closely monitor economic 

 9 

 conditions, client spending and other factors, and in response, will take actions available to us to reduce costs, manage working capital and conserve cash. In the current economic environment, there can be no assurance as to the effects of future economic circumstances, client spending patterns, client credit worthiness and other developments on us and whether and to what extent our efforts to respond to them will be effective. 

 Given our size and breadth, we manage our business by monitoring several financial indicators. The key indicators that we review are revenue and operating expenses. 

 We analyze revenue growth by reviewing the components and mix of the growth, including growth by major geographic location, growth by major marketing discipline, growth from currency fluctuations, growth from acquisitions and growth from our largest clients. 

 In recent years, our revenue has been divided almost evenly between domestic and international operations. In 2008, our overall revenue growth was 5.2%, of which 1.3% was related to changes in foreign exchange rates and 1.0% was related to the acquisition of entities, net of entities disposed. The remainder, 2.9%, was organic growth. 

 In 2008, traditional media advertising represented about 43% of our total revenue and grew by 4.9% over the prior year. CRM represented about 38% of the total revenue and grew by 9.5% over the previous year. Public relations represented about 9.5% of the total revenue and decreased by 0.4% from the prior year, and specialty communications represented about 9.5% of total revenue and decreased by 2.7% from the prior year. 

 We measure operating expenses in two distinct cost categories: salary and service costs, and office and general expenses. Salary and service costs are primarily comprised of employee compensation related costs. Office and general expenses are primarily comprised of rent and occupancy costs, technology related costs and depreciation and amortization. Each of our agencies requires service professionals with a skill set that is common across our disciplines. At the core of this skill set is the ability to understand a client’s brand and its selling proposition, and the ability to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand to the client’s target audience. The facility requirements of our agencies are similar across geographic regions and disciplines, and their technology requirements are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. 

 Because we are a service business, we monitor salary and service costs and office and general costs as a percentage of revenue. Salary and service costs tend to fluctuate in conjunction with changes in revenue. Office and general expenses, which are not directly related to servicing clients, are less directly linked to changes in our revenues than salary and service costs. These costs tend to increase as revenue increases; however, the rate of increase in these expenses could be more or less than the rate of increase in our revenues. During 2008, salary and service costs increased slightly to 71.6% of revenue versus 71.0% of revenue in 2007. The increase in salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue is primarily attributable to recording severance benefits in the fourth quarter of 2008 that were $55 million greater than the amount recorded in the comparable period in 2007. We recorded these severance benefits as a result of reducing our work force in anticipation of reductions in client spending in 2009. Office and general expenses decreased slightly during 2008 to 15.8% of revenue from 16.0% in 2007. 

 Our net income for 2008 increased by 2.5% to $1,000.3 million from $975.7 million in 2007 and our diluted EPS increased by 7.5% to $3.17 from $2.95 in the prior year for the reasons described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average shares outstanding for the year. This reduction was the result of our purchases through 2007 and the first eight months of 2008 of treasury shares net of option exercises and share issuances under our employee stock purchase plan. 

 Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements 

 Critical Accounting Policies 

 We have prepared the following summary of our critical accounting policies to assist the reader in better understanding our financial statements and the related MD&A. We believe that the following policies may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application and represent the critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our financial statements. Readers are encouraged to consider this summary together with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, including our discussion in Note 1 setting forth our accounting policies in greater detail, for a more complete understanding of critical accounting policies discussed below. 

 10 

 Estimates: Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and require us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities including valuation allowances for receivables and deferred tax assets, accruals for incentive compensation and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during a reporting period. We evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis and we base our estimates on historical experience, current conditions and various other assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results can differ from those estimates, and it is possible that the differences could be material. 

 A fair value approach is used in testing goodwill for impairment under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”) and when evaluating cost-method investments, which consist of ownership interests in non-public companies, to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. We consider and use several comparable market participant measurements to determine fair value, including consideration of similar and recent transactions and, when available and as appropriate, we use comparative market multiples. We also use a discounted expected cash flow methodology. Numerous estimates and assumptions have to be made when completing a discounted expected cash flow valuation, including estimates and assumptions regarding interest rates, appropriate discount rates and capital structure. Additionally, estimates must be made regarding revenue growth, operating margins, tax rates, working capital requirements and capital expenditures. Judgment is required when determining fair value, including when we evaluate the applicability of similar and recent transactions, and when determining the appropriate comparative market multiples to be used. Actual results of operations, cash flows and other factors used in a discounted expected cash flow valuation will likely differ from the estimates used and it is possible that differences could be material. Additional information about impairment testing under SFAS 142 and valuation of cost-method investments appears in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 A fair value approach is used in determining the award value of share-based employee compensation in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”). We utilize the Black-Scholes option valuation model to determine the fair value of option awards. This valuation model uses several assumptions and estimates such as expected life, rate of risk free interest, volatility and dividend yield. If different assumptions and estimates were used to determine the fair value, our actual results of operations and cash flows would likely differ from the estimates used and it is possible that differences and changes could be material. Additional information about these assumptions and estimates appears in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 Acquisitions and Goodwill: We have historically made and expect to continue to make selective acquisitions. In making acquisitions, the price we pay is determined by various factors, including specialized know-how, reputation, competitive position, geographic coverage and service offerings, as well as our experience and judgment. The amount we paid for acquisitions, including cash and assumption of net liabilities, totaled $492.2 million in 2008 and $378.3 million in 2007. Approximately 36% and 42%, respectively, of these amounts related to contingent purchase price obligations, sometimes referred to as earn-outs, paid during the respective year related to acquisitions previously completed. 

 A summary of our contingent purchase price obligations and obligations to purchase additional interests in certain subsidiary and affiliate companies is set forth in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this MD&A. The amount of contingent purchase price obligations and obligations to purchase additional interests in certain subsidiary and affiliate companies are based on future performance. Contingent purchase price obligations, for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009 are accrued, in accordance with GAAP, when the contingency is resolved and payment is certain. 

 Our acquisition strategy has been focused on acquiring the expertise of an assembled workforce in order to continue to build upon the core capabilities of our various strategic business platforms and agency brands through the expansion of their geographic reach and/or their service capabilities to better serve our clients. Additional key factors we consider include the competitive position and specialized know-how of the acquisition targets. Accordingly, like most service businesses, a substantial portion of the intangible asset value that we acquire is the know-how of the people, which is treated as part of goodwill and, in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations (“SFAS 141”), is not valued separately. For each of our acquisitions, we undertake a detailed review to identify other intangible assets and a valuation is performed for all such assets identified.  

 11 

 The majority of the value of the identifiable intangible assets that we acquire is derived from customer relationships, including the related customer contracts. When making the necessary valuation assumptions of these identified intangible assets, we typically use an income approach and consider comparable market participant measurements. The expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies as they work together to integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy. 

 We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually during the second quarter of the year. In accordance with paragraph 30 of SFAS 142, we identified our regional reporting units as components of our operating segments, which are our five agency networks. The regional reporting units of each agency network are responsible for the agencies in their region. They report to the segment managers and facilitate the administrative and logistical requirements of our client-centric strategy for delivering services to clients in their regions. We then concluded that for each of our operating segments, their regional reporting units had similar economic characteristics and should be aggregated for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment at the operating segment level. Our conclusion was based on a detailed analysis of the aggregation criteria set forth in paragraph 17 of SFAS No.131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information (“SFAS 131”), and the guidance set forth in EITF D-101: Clarification of Reporting Unit Guidance in Paragraph 30 of FASB Statement No. 142. Consistent with the fundamentals of our business strategy, the agencies within our regional reporting units serve similar clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In addition, the agencies within our regional reporting units have similar economic characteristics, as the main economic components of each agency are the salary and service costs associated with providing professional services, the office and general costs associated with office space and occupancy, and the provision of technology requirements which are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. Finally, the expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies and regions as they work together to integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy. Based on the results of our impairment testing, we concluded that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their book value and therefore, our goodwill was not impaired. 

 Additional information about acquisitions and goodwill appears in Notes 1 and 2 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 Changes in Accounting for Acquisitions: In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141 (Revised 2007), Business Combinations (“SFAS 141R”). SFAS 141R will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited and SFAS 141R will apply to business combinations entered into after January 1, 2009. We will adopt SFAS 141R on January 1, 2009. SFAS 141R will require, among other things that: the acquirer record 100% of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed even when less than 100% of the target is acquired; all transaction costs be expensed as incurred; and, a liability for contingent purchase price obligations (earn-outs), if any, be recorded at the acquisition date and remeasured at fair value and included in earnings in each subsequent reporting period. 

 Revenue Recognition: Substantially all of our revenue is derived from fees for services or a rate per hour, or equivalent basis, and revenue is realized when the service is performed in accordance with terms of each client arrangement, upon completion of the earnings process and when collection is reasonably assured. We record revenue net of sales tax, use tax and value added tax. Certain of our businesses earn a portion of their revenue as commissions based upon performance in accordance with client arrangements. 

 These principles are the foundation of our revenue recognition policy and apply to all client arrangements in each of our service disciplines – traditional media advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. 

 More specifically, in compliance with Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements (“SAB 101”), as updated by SAB 104, Revenue Recognition (“SAB 104”), our policy requires the following key elements to be satisfied prior to recognizing revenue: persuasive evidence of an arrangement must exist; the sales price must be fixed or determinable; delivery, performance and acceptance must be in accordance with the client arrangement; and collection is reasonably assured. 

 Because the services that we provide across each of our disciplines are similar and delivered to clients in similar ways, all of the key elements set forth above apply to client arrangements in each of our four disciplines. 

 12 

 In the majority of our businesses, we act as an agent and record revenue equal to the net amount retained, when the fee or commission is earned. In certain cases, we contract directly with suppliers for media payments and third-party production costs and are responsible for their payment, recharging our clients for all costs incurred. Although we may bear credit risk in respect of these activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that, in effect, we act as an agent on their behalf. In these cases, costs incurred with external suppliers are excluded from our revenue. 

 A small portion of our contractual arrangements with clients include performance incentive provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to both quantitative and qualitative goals. We recognize this portion of revenue when the specific quantitative goals are achieved, or when our performance against qualitative goals is determined by our clients. Additional information about our revenue recognition appears in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 Employee Share-Based Compensation: On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS 123R. Our outstanding share-based compensation awards are principally stock options and restricted stock. In accordance with SFAS 123R, because our awards are share settled, we record employee share-based compensation at fair value on the date of grant. On January 1, 2004, we elected to adopt SFAS 123, as amended by (SFAS No. 148, Accounting, for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123 (“SFAS 148”) and, as provided by SFAS 148, we elected to apply it retroactively. Accordingly, our Net Income for all years presented includes a compensation charge for the grant date fair value of all share-based compensation awards in the respective year the award was earned. 

 As a result of our election in 2004 to adopt SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148, the adoption of SFAS 123R in 2006 did not have a significant effect on our financial statements. SFAS 123R requires, among other things, that we record share-based compensation net of an estimate for awards that are expected to be forfeited. On January 1, 2006, we recorded an increase to our Operating Income and Net Income of $3.6 million and $2.0 million, respectively, as a result of the cumulative effect of this change in accounting for forfeitures. However, because this adjustment was not significant, we did not present it on an after-tax basis as a cumulative effect of an accounting change on our income statement. 

 In estimating the grant date of fair value stock option awards, we use certain assumptions and estimates to derive fair value, such as expected term, rate of risk free interest, volatility and dividend yield. If different assumptions and estimates were used, the amounts charged to compensation expense would be different. However, due to limited stock option award activity in the past several years and given that most stock option awards that are outstanding have been fully expensed in our financial statement, the impact of using different assumptions and estimates would not be material on our current results of operations. 

 Pre-tax share-based employee compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, was $59.3 million, $68.7 million and $71.1 million, respectively. Information about our specific awards and stock plans can be found in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 Additional information regarding the changes required by SFAS 123R and its impact on our financial statements can be found in Notes 1 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 New Accounting Pronouncements 

 In addition to those discussed previously, additional information regarding new accounting pronouncements can also be found in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements also includes a summary of our significant accounting policies. 

 13 

Financial Results from Operations — 2008 Compared with 2007 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following analysis gives further details and insight into our 2008 financial performance. 

 Revenue: When comparing performance between years, we discuss non-GAAP financial measures such as the impact that foreign currency rate changes, acquisitions/dispositions and organic growth have on reported revenue. We derive significant revenue from international operations and year-over-year changes in foreign currency rates impact our reported results. Our reported results are also impacted by our acquisition and disposition activity and organic growth. Accordingly, we provide this information to supplement the discussion of changes in revenue period-to-period. 

 Our 2008 consolidated worldwide revenue increased 5.2% to $13,359.9 million from $12,694.0 million in 2007. The effect of foreign exchange impacts increased worldwide revenue by $163.9 million. Acquisitions, net of dispositions, increased 2008 worldwide revenue by $128.1 million and organic growth increased worldwide revenue by $373.9 million. The components of total 2008 revenue growth in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“international”) are summarized below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our fourth quarter 2008 consolidated worldwide revenue decreased 7.0% to $3,371.3 million from $3,626.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The effect of foreign exchange impacts decreased worldwide revenue by $210.7 million. Acquisitions, net of dispositions, increased fourth quarter 2008 worldwide revenue 

14 

by $39.2 million and organic growth decreased worldwide revenue by $83.2 million. The components of total fourth quarter 2008 revenue in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“international”) are summarized below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 During the second half of 2008, we experienced a decline in the rate of growth of our revenue compared to the second half of 2007 and, due to the rapidly changing economic conditions, we have less visibility than we historically have had regarding client spending plans in the near term. Client spending began to contract in the last half of 2008 and the contraction accelerated in the fourth quarter of 2008. The decline was broad-based across all industry segments and geographic areas. Continued economic uncertainty and reductions in consumer spending may result in further reductions in client spending levels that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 

The components and percentages are calculated as follows:   

The foreign exchange impact component shown in the table is calculated by first converting the current period’s local currency revenue using the average exchange rates from the equivalent prior period to arrive at a constant currency revenue (in this case $13,196.0 million and $3,582.0 million for the Total column in the table for the year and quarter, respectively). The foreign exchange impact equals the difference between the current period revenue in U.S. Dollars and the current period revenue in constant currency (in this case $13,359.9 million less $13,196.0 million and $3,371.3 million less $3,582.0 million for the Total column in the table for the year and quarter, respectively).   

The acquisition component shown in the table is calculated by aggregating the applicable prior period revenue of the acquired businesses. Netted against this number is the revenue of any business included in the prior period reported revenue that was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.   

The organic component shown in the table is calculated by subtracting both the foreign exchange and acquisition revenue components from total revenue growth.   

The percentage change shown in the table of each component is calculated by dividing the individual component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component (in this case $12,694.0 million and $3,626.0 million for the Total column in the table for the year and quarter, respectively).    

 The components of 2008 revenue and revenue growth for the full year and fourth quarter in our primary geographic markets are summarized and discussed below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 For the full year 2008, foreign exchange impacts increased our international revenue by $163.9 million. The most significant impacts resulted from the strengthening, especially during the first half of the year, of the Euro, Japanese Yen and Brazilian Real against the U.S. Dollar, which was offset primarily by the decline of the 

15 

British Pound and Korean Won against the U.S. Dollar. Beginning in the third quarter of 2008 and especially during the last four months of the year, the U.S. Dollar strengthened against most other major currencies. However, the foreign exchange impact for the year was still positive. 

 For the fourth quarter of 2008, foreign exchange impacts decreased our international revenue by $210.7 million. The most significant impacts resulted from the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the British Pound, Euro, Brazilian Real, Australian Dollar, and Korean Won, which was offset slightly by the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Japanese Yen. 

 Assuming exchange rates at January 30, 2009 remain unchanged, we expect foreign exchange impacts to decrease our full-year 2009 consolidated revenue by between 6.5% and 7.5%. 

 Additional geographic information relating to our business is contained in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 Due to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business from clients each year. The net result in 2008 was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our single largest client represented 2.8% of our worldwide revenue in both 2008 and 2007. No other client represented more than 2.1% in 2008 or more than 2.4% in 2007. Our ten largest and 100 largest clients represented 16.7% and 47.4% of our 2008 worldwide revenue, respectively, and 16.7% and 46.2% of our 2007 worldwide revenue, respectively. 

 Driven by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient branding activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. These services include advertising, brand consultancy, crisis communications, custom publishing, database management, digital and interactive marketing, direct marketing, directory advertising, entertainment marketing, environmental design, experiential marketing, field marketing, financial / corporate business-to-business advertising, graphic arts, healthcare communications, instore design, investor relations, marketing research, media planning and buying, mobile marketing services, multi-cultural marketing, non-profit marketing, organizational communications, package design, product placement, promotional marketing, public affairs, public relations, recruitment communications, reputation consulting, retail marketing, search engine marketing and sports and event marketing. In an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of our services to key clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and group them into the following four categories as summarized below: traditional media advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

16 

 Operating Expenses: Our 2008 worldwide operating expenses increased $635.6 million, or 5.8%, to $11,670.5 million from $11,034.9 million in 2007, as shown below. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Because we provide professional services, salary and service costs represent the largest part of our operating expenses. As a percentage of total operating expenses, salary and service costs were 81.9% in 2008 and 81.6% in 2007. These costs are comprised of salary and related costs and direct service costs. Salary and service costs accounted for $552.0 million of the $635.6 million increase in total operating expenses. During the first nine months of 2008, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased slightly compared to the same period in 2007. However, given the reduction of revenue that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007, we took actions to reduce incentive compensation and our discretionary spending. As a result of taking these actions the ratio of salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue for the full year 2008 would have been similar to that of 2007; however, we reduced our work force in the fourth quarter of 2008 in anticipation of reductions in client spending in 2009 and we incurred expenses related to severance benefits that were $51 million greater than similar costs incurred in the fourth quarter of 2007. As a result of these incremental severance costs, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased to 71.6% for the full year of 2008 compared to 71.0% in 2007. 

 Office and general expenses represented 18.1% and 18.4% of our operating expenses in 2008 and 2007, respectively. These costs are comprised of office and equipment rents, technology costs and depreciation, amortization of identifiable intangible assets, professional fees and other overhead expenses. As a percentage of revenue, office and general expenses decreased marginally in 2008 from 16.0% to 15.8%. These costs are less directly linked to changes in our revenues than our salary and service costs. Although they tend to increase as our revenues increase, the rate of increase could be more or less than the rate of increase in our revenues. 

 Net Interest Expense: Our net interest expense increased slightly by $0.3 million in 2008 to $74.3 million, as compared to $74.0 million in 2007. Our gross interest expense increased by $17.7 million to $124.6 million. The increase was primarily due to higher interest expense on our Euro and Yen denominated swaps, which were terminated in the second half of 2008, and additional interest expense due to an increase in our average debt outstanding, partially offset by interest expense savings in 2008 associated with a decrease in the amortization (in accordance with EITF No. 96-19, Debtor’s Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments (“EITF 96-19”) of supplemental interest payments that were made on our Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2032 and 2038 (“2032 Notes” and “2038 Notes”) in prior periods. The total increase in gross interest expense was almost entirely offset by increased interest income earned on our foreign cash balances. 

 In February 2009, we borrowed $814.4 million under our credit facility to fund the purchase of our 2031 Notes by us and a partnership we control. Borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at either a floating base rate or the Eurocurrency rate, plus an applicable margin. As a result, we expect our gross interest expense to increase in 2009. Additionally, assuming exchange rates and interest rates at January 30, 2009 remain unchanged, we expect interest income earned on our foreign cash balances to decrease in 2009. 

 See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a discussion of our indebtedness and related matters. 

17 

 Income Taxes: Our 2008 consolidated effective income tax rate was 33.6%, which is down slightly from our 2007 rate of 33.9%, primarily due to lower rates in various foreign jurisdictions. 

 Earnings Per Share (EPS): For the foregoing reasons, our net income in 2008 increased $24.6 million, or 2.5%, to $1,000.3 million from $975.7 million in 2007. Diluted earnings per share increased 7.5% to $3.17 in 2008, as compared to $2.95 in the prior year for the reasons described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average shares outstanding for the year. The reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding was the result of our purchases throughout 2007 and the first eight months of 2008 of treasury shares, net of shares issued upon option exercises and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan. 

Financial Results from Operations — 2007 Compared with 2006 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following year-over-year analysis gives further details and insight into the changes in our financial performance. 

 Revenue: When comparing performance between years, we discuss non-GAAP financial measures such as the impact that foreign currency rate changes, acquisitions/dispositions and organic growth have on reported revenue. We derive significant revenue from international operations and changes in foreign currency rates between the years impact our reported results. Our reported results are also impacted by our acquisition and disposition activity and organic growth. Accordingly, we provide this information to supplement the discussion of changes in revenue period-to-period. 

18 

 Our 2007 consolidated worldwide revenue increased 11.6% to $12,694.0 million from $11,376.9 million in 2006. The effect of foreign exchange impacts increased worldwide revenue by $436.8 million. Acquisitions, net of dispositions, increased 2007 worldwide revenue by $77.7 million and organic growth increased worldwide revenue by $802.6 million. The components of total 2007 revenue growth in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“international”) are summarized below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The components and percentages are calculated as follows:   

The foreign exchange impact component shown in the table is calculated by first converting the current period’s local currency revenue using the average exchange rates from the equivalent prior period to arrive at a constant currency revenue (in this case $12,257.2 million for the Total column in the table). The foreign exchange impact equals the difference between the current period revenue in U.S. Dollars and the current period revenue in constant currency (in this case $12,694.0 million less $12,257.2 million for the Total column in the table).   

The acquisition component shown in the table is calculated by aggregating the applicable prior period revenue of the acquired businesses. Netted against this number is the revenue of any business included in the prior period reported revenue that was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.   

The organic component shown in the table is calculated by subtracting both the foreign exchange and acquisition revenue components from total revenue growth.   

The percentage change shown in the table of each component is calculated by dividing the individual component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component (in this case $11,376.9 million for the Total column in the table).    

 The components of 2007 revenue and revenue growth compared to 2006 in our primary geographic markets are summarized and discussed below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 As indicated, foreign exchange impacts increased our international revenue by $436.8 million for 2007. The most significant impacts resulted from the strengthening of the Euro, British Pound, Australian Dollar and Brazilian Real against the U.S. Dollar, which was offset primarily by the decline of the Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar. Additional geographic information relating to our business is contained in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 Due to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business from clients each year. The net result in 2007, and historically each year for us as a whole, was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our single largest client represented 2.8% of our worldwide revenue in 2007 and 3.6% in 2006. No other client represented more than 2.4% in 2007 or more than 2.9% in 2006. Our ten largest and 100 largest clients represented 16.7% and 46.2% of our 2007 worldwide revenue, respectively, and 18.3% and 46.2% of our 2006 worldwide revenue, respectively. 

19 

 In an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of our services to key clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and group them into the following four categories as summarized below: traditional media advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Operating Expenses: Our 2007 worldwide operating expenses increased $1,141.5 million, or 11.5%, to $11,034.9 million from $9,893.4 million in 2006, as shown below. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Because we provide professional services, salary and service costs represent the largest part of our operating expenses. During 2007, we continued to invest in our businesses and their professional personnel. As a percentage of total operating expenses, salary and service costs were 81.6% in 2007 and 81.67% in 2006. These costs are comprised of salary and related costs and direct service costs. Most, or $920.4 million and 80.6%, of the $1,141.5 million increase in total operating expenses in 2007, resulted from increases in salary and service costs. This increase was attributable to the increase in our revenue in 2007 and the necessary increases in the direct costs required to deliver our services and pursue new business initiatives, including direct salaries, salary related costs and direct service costs, including freelance labor costs and direct administrative costs, such as travel, as well as increases in incentive-based compensation costs. This increase was partially offset by reductions in employee stock-based compensation expense. As a result, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue were relatively stable year-to-year at 71.1% in 2006 compared to 71.0% in 2007. 

 Office and general expenses represented 18.4% and 18.3% of our operating expenses in 2007 and 2006, respectively. These costs are comprised of office and equipment rents, technology costs and depreciation, amortization of identifiable intangible assets, professional fees and other overhead expenses. As a percentage of revenue, office and general expenses increased marginally in 2007 from 15.9% to 16.0%, but remained flat year-over-year on a constant currency basis. These costs are less directly linked to changes in our revenues than our salary and service costs. Although they tend to increase as our revenues increase, the rate of increase could be more or less than the rate of increase in our revenues. 

 Included in office and general expense for 2006 operating margin is a pre-tax net loss of $0.5 million arising from the sale in the third quarter of a U.S.-based healthcare business and several small businesses. The sale of the healthcare business resulted in a high book tax rate primarily caused by the non-deductibility of goodwill. This increase in income tax expense was more than offset by a one-time reduction of income tax expense from the resolution of uncertainties related to changes in certain foreign tax laws. The aggregate impact of these events was a decrease in profit before tax of $0.5 million, a decrease in tax expense of $1.8 million and an increase in net income of $1.3 million. 

20 

 Net Interest Expense: Our net interest expense in 2007 decreased by $17.6 million in 2007 to $74.0 million, as compared to $91.6 million in 2006. Our gross interest expense decreased by $18.0 million to $106.9 million. The decrease was primarily impacted by interest expense savings associated with the amortization, in accordance with EITF No. 96-19, of supplemental interest payments made with respect to our 2031 and 2032 Notes that were made in 2006, but not in 2007. This reduction was offset by $14.7 million of additional interest costs in the first quarter of 2007, compared to the first quarter of 2006, related to the issuance in late March 2006 of our 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2006 (“Senior Notes”). During the third quarter of 2007, volatility in the financial markets resulted in an increase in borrowing spreads in the commercial paper markets. To mitigate the effect of these increased spreads, we arranged for $300 million in unsecured uncommitted lines of credit and shifted funding a portion of our daily needs to these lines from our commercial paper program. There were no borrowings outstanding under these lines at December 31, 2007, as these lines were terminated during the fourth quarter of 2007. 

 Income Taxes: Our 2007 consolidated effective income tax rate was 33.9%, which is up slightly from our 2006 rate of 33.5%. Excluding the net reduction in income tax expense in 2006, resulting from the resolution of uncertainties in the third quarter related to changes in certain tax laws that was somewhat offset by a high book tax rate related to dispositions in the third quarter of 2006, the tax rate in 2006 would have been 33.7%, which is more in line with the 2007 rate. In connection with our adoption of FIN 48, there was no significant change to our effective tax rate in 2007. 

 Earnings Per Share (EPS): For the foregoing reasons, our net income in 2007 increased $111.7 million, or 12.9%, to $975.7 million from $864.0 million in 2006. Diluted earnings per share increased 18.0% to $2.95 in 2007, as compared to $2.50 in the prior year for the reasons described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average shares outstanding for the year. The reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding was the result of our purchases throughout 2006 and 2007 of treasury shares, net of shares issued upon option exercises and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan. 

 Liquidity and Capital Resources 

 Cash Sources and Requirements, Including Contractual Obligations 

 Historically, substantially all of our non-discretionary cash requirements have been funded from operating cash flow and cash on hand. Our principal non-discretionary funding requirement is our working capital. In addition, as discussed below, we have contractual obligations related to our debt, senior notes and convertible notes, our recurring business operations (primarily related to lease obligations), as well as certain contingent acquisition obligations related to acquisitions made in prior years. 

 Our principal discretionary cash requirements include dividend payments to our shareholders, repurchases of our common stock, payments for strategic acquisitions and capital expenditures. Our discretionary spending is funded from operating cash flow, cash on hand and short-term investments. In addition, in any given year, depending on the level of discretionary activity, we may use other sources of available funding, such as the liquidation of short-term investments or the issuance of commercial paper to finance these activities. 

 21 

 We have a seasonal working capital cycle. Working capital requirements are lowest at year-end. The fluctuation in working capital requirements between the lowest and highest points during the course of the year can be more than $1.5 billion. This cycle occurs because our businesses incur costs on behalf of our clients, including when we place media and incur production costs. We generally require collection from our clients prior to our payment for the media and production cost obligations. During the year, we manage liquidity through our credit facilities, as discussed below under “Cash Management.” At December 31, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $695.9 million from December 31, 2007. The components of the decrease in 2008 are summarized below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The Principal Cash Sources and Principal Discretionary Cash Uses amounts presented above are non-GAAP financial measures. These amounts exclude changes in working capital and certain other investing and financing activities, including commercial paper issuances and redemptions, used to fund these working capital changes. This presentation reflects the metrics used by us to assess our sources and uses of cash and was derived from our consolidated statements of cash flows. We believe that this presentation is meaningful for understanding our primary sources and primary uses of that cash flow. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. Additional information regarding our cash flows can be found in our consolidated financial statements. 

 Cash Management 

 We manage our cash and liquidity centrally through our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries that manage our treasury centers in North America, Europe and Asia. Each day, operations with excess funds invest these funds with their regional treasury center. Likewise, operations that require funding will borrow funds from their regional treasury center. The treasury centers then aggregate the net position of the operating companies. The net position is either invested with or borrowed from third party providers. To the extent that our treasury centers require liquidity, they have the ability to access local currency lines of credit, our $2.5 billion credit facility, or depending on market conditions at the time, issue up to $1.5 billion of U.S. Dollar-denominated commercial paper. This enables us to more efficiently manage our debt balances and effectively utilize our cash, as well as better manage our exposure to foreign exchange. 

 Our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $695.9 million and our short-term investments decreased by $32.7 million from the prior year. Short-term investments include investments of our excess cash which we expect to convert into cash in our current operating cycle, generally within one year. The majority of our short-term investments represent time deposits that mature in 2009. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our short-term investments did not include any auction rate securities. 

 22 

 We manage our net debt position, which we define as total debt outstanding less cash and short-term investments, centrally through our treasury centers as discussed above. Our net debt outstanding at December 31, 2008 increased by $732.5 million as compared to the prior year-end, as summarized below (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 On February 9, 2009, holders of $841.2 million aggregate principal amount of our 2031 Notes put their notes to us for purchase at par. We borrowed $814.4 million under our credit facility and received $26.8 million from unaffiliated equity investors in a partnership we control to fund the purchase of the 2031 Notes. We purchased and retired $295.2 million aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Notes that had been put. The partnership, formed for the purpose of buying the 2031 Notes, used a portion of our credit facility borrowings and the contributed equity to purchase the remaining $546.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Notes that were put. The partnership purchased the 2031 Notes intending to sell such notes back into the marketplace over the next 12 months if market conditions permit. The partnership will be consolidated within our financial statements. 

 Net Debt is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe this presentation, together with the comparable GAAP measure, is meaningful for understanding our liquidity and it reflects one of the key metrics used by us to assess our cash management. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. 

Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related Covenants 

 We maintain a credit facility with a consortium of banks providing borrowing capacity of up to $2.5 billion as described in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. Our credit facility provides back-up liquidity in the event any of our convertible notes are put back to us, as well as support for our commercial paper borrowings. Depending on market conditions at the time, we typically fund our daily borrowing needs by issuing commercial paper, borrowing under our short-term uncommitted lines of credit, or drawing down on our credit facility. During 2008, we issued and redeemed $14.7 billion of commercial paper and we borrowed and repaid $13.4 billion under the credit facility. The average term of the commercial paper was 4.4 days and the average borrowing under the credit facility was 15 days. As of December 31, 2008, we had no commercial paper or bank loans outstanding under our credit facility. At December 31, 2008, we had short-term borrowings of $16.2 million outstanding, which are comprised of bank overdrafts by our international subsidiaries. These bank overdrafts are treated as unsecured loans pursuant to the subsidiaries’ bank agreements. 

 Our credit facility contains financial covenants that restrict our ability to incur indebtedness as defined in the agreements. These financial covenants limit the ratio of total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated EBITDA (under our credit agreement, EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to no more than 3.0 times. In addition, they require us to maintain a minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of at least 5.0 times. At December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with these covenants, as our ratio of debt to EBITDA was 1.6 times and our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense was 15.4 times. In addition, our credit facility does not limit our ability to declare or pay dividends. 

23 

 Standard and Poor’s Rating Service currently rates our long-term debt A-, Moody’s Investors Service rates our long-term debt Baa1 and Fitch Ratings rates our long-term debt A-. Our short-term debt credit ratings are A2, P2 and F2 by the respective agencies. Our outstanding Senior Notes, convertible notes and bank credit facilities do not contain provisions that require acceleration of cash payments should our debt credit ratings be downgraded. The interest rates and fees on our bank credit facilities, however, will increase if our long-term debt credit rating is lowered. 

 Our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries Omnicom Capital Inc. (“OCI”) and Omnicom Finance Inc. (“OFI”) provide funding for our operations by incurring debt and lending the proceeds to our operating subsidiaries. OCI and OFI’s assets consist of intercompany loans made to our operating subsidiaries and the related interest receivable. OCI and OFI are co-issuers and co-obligors of our Senior Notes and convertible notes. There are no restrictions in the applicable indentures on the ability of OCI, OFI or us to obtain funds from our subsidiaries through dividends, loans or advances. The Senior Notes and convertible notes are a joint and several liability of us, OCI and OFI, and we unconditionally guarantee the obligations of OCI and OFI with respect to the Senior Notes and convertible notes. 

 In March 2006, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2016. The gross proceeds from the issuance were $995.1 million. The gross proceeds less fees resulted in a 6.05% yield to maturity. The Senior Notes are senior unsecured notes that rank in equal right of payment with all existing and future unsecured indebtedness. 

 On March 31, 2006, we entered into an agreement to purchase 11.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock for $458.7 million. We repurchased the shares under an accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) program with a financial institution at $41.705 per share with an initial settlement date of April 3, 2006. The purchase was funded using a portion of the proceeds from our Senior Notes offering. During the second quarter of 2006, the financial institution purchased the 11.0 million shares of our common stock in the open market and we paid a settlement amount of $45.1 million, referred to as the purchase price adjustment, based upon the difference between the actual cost of the shares purchased by the financial institution of $45.805 per share and the initial purchase price of $41.705 per share. 

 At December 31, 2008, we had a total of $2,041.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes outstanding, including $847.0 million 2031 Notes that were issued in February 2001, $727.0 million 2032 Notes that were issued in March 2002, $0.1 million Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2033 that were issued in June 2003 and $467.4 million Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2038 (“2038 Notes”) that were originally issued in June 2003 as 2033 Notes that were subsequently amended in June 2006 to become the 2038 Notes. 

 The holders of our 2031 Notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for par value in February of each year. The holders of our 2032 Notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for par value in August of each year. The holders of our 2038 Notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for par value on June 15, 2010, 2013, 2018, 2023 and on each June 15 annually thereafter through June 15, 2037. The 2031, 2032, 2033 and 2038 Notes are convertible, at specified ratios, only upon the occurrence of certain events, including: if our common shares trade above certain levels, if we effect extraordinary transactions or, in the case of the 2031 Notes and the 2032 Notes, if our long-term debt credit ratings are downgraded to BBB or lower by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, or Baa3 or lower by Moody’s Investors Service or in the case of the 2033 and 2038 Notes to BBB- or lower by S&P, and Ba1 or lower by Moody’s. These events would not, however, result in an adjustment of the number of shares issuable upon conversion and would not accelerate the holder’s right to cause us to repurchase the notes. For additional information about the terms of these notes, see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 In February 2006, we paid a supplemental interest payment of $39.2 million to qualified noteholders of our 2031 Notes that did not put their notes back to us. The total supplemental interest payment was amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in February 2007 in accordance with EITF 96-19. 

 In June 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $27.50 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to holders of our 2033 Notes that did not put their notes back to us and consented to the amendments to the notes and related indenture as of June 27, 2006. The principal amendment extended the maturity of the notes 

 24 

from June 15, 2033 to July 1, 2038. The additional amendments conformed other terms of the notes for the extension of the maturity date, as well as amending the comparable yield. On June 21, 2006, we repurchased $132.5 million of 2033 Notes that were put to us. With respect to the remaining $467.5 million of 2033 Notes as of June 30, 2006, noteholders holding a combined amount of $428.1 million who consented to the amendments were paid $27.50 per $1,000 note and their notes were amended. The total supplemental interest payment of $11.7 million is being amortized ratably over a 24-month period to the next put date in accordance with EITF 96-19. The remaining noteholders of the 2033 Notes, comprising $39.4 million aggregate principal amount of notes, did not consent to the amendments and were not paid the supplemental interest payment. During 2007, substantially all of the remaining holders of the 2033 Notes exchanged their 2033 Notes for 2038 Notes, reducing the aggregate principal amount of our 2033 Notes to $0.2 million. No supplemental interest payment or fee was paid to noteholders for this exchange. 

 In July 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $32.50 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to holders of our 2032 Notes as of August 1, 2006 that did not put their notes back to us. On August 4, 2006, we repurchased $165.2 million of our 2032 Notes that were put to us. With respect to the remaining $727.0 million of notes, noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment of $23.6 million on August 2, 2006 which was amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in accordance with EITF 96-19. 

 In February 2007, we did not pay a supplemental interest payment to noteholders of our 2031 Notes. Additionally, none of the 2031 Notes were put back to us for repayment. 

 In July 2007, we did not pay a supplemental interest payment to noteholders of our 2032 Notes. Additionally, none of the 2032 Notes were put back to us for repayment. 

 In February 2008, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $9.00 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to holders of our 2031 Notes as of February 4, 2008 who did not put their notes back to us. None of the 2031 Notes were put back to us and on February 8, 2008 noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment of $7.6 million that is being amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in accordance with EITF 96-19. 

 In June 2008, we did not pay a supplemental interest payment to noteholders of our 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes, and none of our 2033 Notes or 2038 Notes were put back to us for repurchase. 

 In July 2008, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $25.00 per $1,000 principal amount of notes to holders of our 2032 Notes as of July 31, 2008 and we amended the 2032 Notes to eliminate Omnicom’s right to redeem the 2032 Notes prior to August 2, 2010, provided that the noteholders deliver a valid consent to the amendment, agree not to put their notes back to us and waive their rights to contingent cash interest payable from October 31, 2008 through and including August 1, 2010. Substantially all of the noteholders consented to the amendments and all of the 2032 Notes remain outstanding. Noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment totaling $18.1 million that will be amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in accordance with EITF 96-19. 

 Our outstanding debt and amounts available under these facilities as of December 31, 2008 were as follows (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

25 

 Additional information about our indebtedness is included in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 On February 9, 2009, holders of $841.2 million aggregate principal amount of our 2031 Notes put their notes to us for purchase at par. We borrowed $814.4 million under our credit facility and received $26.8 million from unaffiliated equity investors in a partnership we control to fund the purchase of the 2031 Notes. We purchased and retired $295.2 million aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Notes that had been put. The partnership, formed for the purpose of buying the 2031 Notes, used a portion of our credit facility borrowings and the contributed equity to purchase the remaining $546.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Notes that were put. The partnership purchased the 2031 Notes intending to sell such notes back into the marketplace over the next 12 months if market conditions permit. The partnership will be consolidated in accordance with Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, as amended, and FASB Interpretation No. 46(R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, and as a result, all of the 2031 Notes held by the partnership will be eliminated in consolidation. 

 The following table presents our outstanding debt at December 31, 2008, after giving effect to the purchase of the 2031 Notes and does not reflect any other financing activities that occurred subsequent to December 31, 2008 (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Credit Markets and Availability of Credit 

 In light of the uncertainty of future economic conditions, we continue to seek to take actions available to us to respond to changing economic conditions and we will continue to actively manage our discretionary expenditures. We have not repurchased any of our common stock since August 2008 and we do not plan to resume our repurchases until we believe that the credit markets have begun to stabilize. We will continue to monitor and manage the level of credit made available to our clients. We believe that these actions, in addition to the availability of our $2.5 billion credit facility, are sufficient to fund our near-term working capital needs and our discretionary spending. For additional information about our credit facility, see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 The next date on which holders of the 2032 Notes can put the notes back to us for cash is July 2009. The next date on which holders of the 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes can put the notes back to us for cash is June 2010. If our convertible notes are put back to us, based on our current financial condition and expectations, we expect to have sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund any put. Although such borrowings would reduce the amount available under our credit facility to fund our cash requirements, we believe that we have sufficient capacity under these commitments to meet our cash requirements for the normal course of our business operations after the put event. 

 In funding our day-to-day liquidity, we have historically been a participant in the commercial paper market. Recent disruptions in the credit markets have led to periods of illiquidity in the commercial paper market and higher credit spreads. To mitigate these conditions and to fund our day-to-day liquidity through the end of 2008, we used our uncommitted lines of credit and borrowed under our credit facility, while reducing the volume and the terms of our commercial paper borrowings. 

 We will continue to closely monitor our liquidity and the credit markets. We cannot predict with any certainty the impact on us of any further disruptions in the credit markets. 

 26 

Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments 

 We enter into numerous contractual and commercial undertakings in the normal course of our business. The following table summarizes information about certain of our obligations as of December 31, 2008 and should be read together with Note 3 (Debt), Note 8 (Income Taxes), Note 11 (Commitments and Contingent Liabilities), Note 12 (Fair Value of Financial Instruments) and Note 13 (Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities) to our consolidated financial statements (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our liability for uncertain tax positions is subject to uncertainty as to when or if the liability will be paid. We have assigned the liability to the period(s) presented based on our judgment as to when these liabilities will be resolved by the appropriate taxing authorities. 

 As more fully described above under the heading “Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related Covenants,” the holders of the convertible notes at December 31, 2008 included in the table above have the right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate face amount of the notes then outstanding for par value at certain dates in the future. If these rights were exercised at the earliest possible future date, as set forth in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, $1,574.0 million of convertible notes could be due in less than one year and $467.5 million could be due in less than two years. The next dates on which holders of the 2031 Notes and 2032 Notes can put the notes back to us for cash are February 2009 and July 2009, respectively. The next date on which holders of the 2033 Notes and 2038 Notes can put the notes back to us for cash is June 2010. We have classified the convertible notes as long-term in our balance sheet because our credit facility does not expire until June 2011 and it is our intention to fund any put with our credit facility. 

 On February 9, 2009, holders of $841.2 million aggregate principal amount of our 2031 Notes put their notes to us for purchase at par. We borrowed $814.4 million under our credit facility and received $26.8 million from unaffiliated equity investors in a partnership we control to fund the purchase of the 2031 Notes. We purchased and retired $295.2 million aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Notes that had been put. The partnership, formed for the purpose of buying the 2031 Notes, used a portion of our credit facility borrowings and the contributed equity to purchase the remaining $546.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Notes that were put. The partnership purchased the 2031 Notes intending to sell such notes back into the marketplace over the next 12 months if market conditions permit. 

 In many of our businesses we purchase media for our clients and act as an agent for a disclosed principal. We enter into contractual commitments with media providers on behalf of our clients at levels that substantially exceed our revenue. These commitments are included in our accounts payable balance when the media services are delivered by the media providers. While operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets many of our contracts with media providers specify that if our client defaults on its payment obligations, then we are not liable to the media providers under the legal theory of sequential liability until we have been paid for the media by our client. In other countries, we manage our risk in other ways, including evaluating and monitoring our clients’ credit worthiness and, in many cases, requiring credit insurance or payment in advance. Further, in cases where we become committed to the media and it 

27 

 becomes apparent that a client may be unable to pay for the media, options are potentially available to us in the marketplace, in addition to those cited above to mitigate the potential loss, including negotiating with media providers. We have not experienced a material loss related to purchases of media on behalf of our clients. However, this risk could increase in a significant economic downturn. 

 Pension Plan Funding: We maintain two U.S. and twenty-nine non-U.S. noncontributory defined benefit pension plans. The benefit obligation for our defined benefit plans was $134.2 million at December 31, 2008. The fair value of assets for these plans at December 31, 2008 was $64.4 million. During 2008, we contributed $5.9 million to our defined benefit plans. We do not expect our 2009 contributions to increase significantly from 2008. 

 Contingent Acquisition Obligations: Certain of our acquisitions are structured with contingent purchase price obligations, often referred to as earn-outs. We utilize contingent purchase price structures in an effort to minimize the risk to us associated with potential future negative changes in the performance of the acquired entity during the post-acquisition transition period. These payments are not contingent upon future employment. The amount of future contingent purchase price payments that we would be required to pay for prior acquisitions, assuming that the businesses perform over the relevant future periods at their current profit levels, is approximately $315 million as of December 31, 2008. The ultimate amounts payable cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty because they are dependent upon future results of operations of the subject businesses and are subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have not recorded a liability for these items on our balance sheet since the definitive amount is not determinable or distributable. Actual results can differ from these estimates and the actual amounts that we pay are likely to be different from these estimates. Our obligations change from period to period primarily as a result of payments made during the current period, changes in the acquired entities’ performance and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These differences could be significant. The contingent purchase price obligations as of December 31, 2008, calculated assuming that the acquired businesses perform over the relevant future periods at their current profit levels, are as follows (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Contingently Redeemable Minority Interests: Owners of interests in the common stock of certain of our subsidiaries or affiliates have the right in certain circumstances to require us to purchase additional ownership interests at fair values as defined in the applicable agreements. The intent of the parties is to approximate fair value at the time of redemption by using a multiple of earnings which is consistent with generally accepted valuation practices by market participants in our industry. 

 The redemption features are embedded in the shares owned by the minority shareholders and are not freestanding. As a result, SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity, does not apply. Additionally, the embedded redemption features do not fall within the scope of EITF Issue No. 00-4, Majority Owners Accounting for a Transaction in the Shares of a Consolidated Subsidiary and a Derivative Indexed to the Minority Interest in That Subsidiary, because they do not represent a de facto financing. Consistent with Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, as amended, minority interests have been recorded on the balance sheet at historical cost plus an allocation of subsidiary earnings based on ownership interests, less dividends paid to the minority shareholders. 

 Historically, we have provided a description and an estimate of the redemption features. Although EITF Topic No. D-98, Classification and Measurement of Redeemable Securities (“EITF D-98”) does not specifically address contingently redeemable minority interests, we considered applying it by analogy to the redeemable minority interests in certain of our subsidiaries. Had we applied EITF D-98, we would have reported our minority interests at the higher of their carrying value or their redemption fair value through a direct reduction to shareholders’ equity with no impact on earnings. Further, had we applied EITF D-98 upon redemption, any prior adjustments to accrete minority interests to their redemption value, had we recorded them, would have been reversed as a direct adjustment to shareholders’ equity with no impact on earnings. 

 Assuming that the subsidiaries and affiliates perform over the relevant periods at their current profit levels, the aggregate amount we could be required to pay in future periods is approximately $242 million, $179 million of which relates to obligations that are currently exercisable. If these rights are exercised, there would likely be 

 28 

an increase in our net income as a result of our increased ownership and the reduction of minority interest expense. The ultimate amount payable relating to these transactions will vary because it is primarily dependent on the future results of operations of the subject businesses, the timing of the exercise of these rights and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The actual amount that we pay is likely to be different from this estimate and the difference could be significant. The redemption value of the obligations that exist for these agreements as of December 31, 2008, calculated using the assumptions above, are as follows (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 As a result of an amendment made to EITF D-98 in 2008, we will be required, effective January 1, 2009, to record an estimate of the redemption fair value of our minority shareholders’ interests of $201 million on our balance sheet through a direct reduction of shareholders’ equity. There will be no impact on earnings upon adoption. Additionally, changes in the redemption value will be remeasured through shareholders’ equity in future reporting periods with no impact on earnings. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk