Item 1A – Risk Factors 

We are exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties. Most are general risks and uncertainties applicable to all retailers, but some are more particular to retailers serving the home improvement industry. Our operations may also be affected by factors that are either not currently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial to our business. We describe below some of the specific known factors that could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. All forward-looking statements made by us in this Annual Report to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 10-K, in our Annual Report to Shareholders and in our subsequently filed quarterly and current reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as in our press releases and other public communications, are qualified by the risks described below. 

Our sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general economy. 

General economic factors and other conditions, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect the United States economy, the global economy and our financial performance. These include, but are not limited to, periods of flat economic growth or recession, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability and/or higher cost of credit to Lowe’s and its customers, slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income, higher rates of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and developments in the war against terrorism in Asia and the Middle East. 

Adverse changes in economic factors specific to the home improvement industry may negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and comparable store sales. 

Sales of many of our product categories and services are driven by housing turnover and activity level of home improvement projects. Many of those sales are to consumers who are either doing the home improvement projects themselves or using our installation services, but many others are to professionals who are in the business of providing construction, renovation, and property maintenance services. Rising interest-rates on variable rate mortgages, increasing mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, reduction in the availability of mortgage financing and consumer credit, lower housing turnover, home-price depreciation and increased heating and gas expenses could limit consumers’ discretionary spending and affect their confidence level and could lead to further reduced spending on home improvement projects. The impact of these economic factors specific to the home improvement industry would be exacerbated by a weak job market. 

Unseasonable weather conditions and adverse weather events can negatively affect our total sales and comparable store sales. 

If weather conditions are uncharacteristic of the time of year during any season, they can hurt our sales by making it difficult to sell seasonal merchandise. Although the impact of unseasonable weather conditions is mitigated somewhat by the broad geographic dispersion of our stores, they continue to be a significant risk to the overall performance of our business, particularly when they occur 

10 

across a broad region of the United States. Adverse weather events, such as a prolonged and widespread drought, can hurt our sales of particular products as well. 

Our store expansion and relocation strategy depends upon our ability to successfully open and operate new stores each year. 

Our growth in total sales depends to a substantial degree on successfully and cost-effectively implementing our ongoing expansion program. We must adapt our merchandising, marketing and distribution initiatives to new markets both domestically and as we continue to expand into Canada and Mexico. We also plan to increase the number of our stores in markets in which we currently operate. Our ability to open additional stores depends, in large measure, upon our ability to locate and acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings in the formats with which we operate may affect our ability to open new stores in some markets. As we develop more new stores in metropolitan markets, we may incur increased costs to remediate environmental pollution on some of the sites we are redeveloping that was caused by previous owners of those sites. Increased real estate, construction and development costs could also limit our growth opportunities. Our ability to continue to expand our operations depends also on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees. If we are unable to open new stores at the rate we currently plan and staff them with qualified employees, the growth in our sales and our competitive position could be adversely affected. 

If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managers, sales associates and other employees we could lose sales to our competitors. 

Customers’ perceptions of the quality of service provided by employees can determine any retailer’s success or failure. Competition for qualified store managers and sales associates among retailers in the home improvement retailing business is intense, and if we fail to attract, train and retain qualified managers and sales associates our financial performance could be adversely impacted. Consumers shopping for goods and services for home improvement projects expect to have sales associates serving them who are knowledgeable about product categories located throughout our stores. 

Excessive turnover, which has historically been high among employees in entry-level or part-time positions, increases the risk that sales associates will not have the training and experience needed to provide competitive, high quality customer service. 

Our success in serving the needs of Commercial Business Customers is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified commercial sales specialists. 

Commercial Business Customers in the home improvement industry require that we have well-trained commercial sales specialists at our project desks. By doing so, we can better serve the needs of this customer on a consistent basis. Our commercial sales specialists have a great depth of knowledge about the products needed by Commercial Business Customers. If we fail to staff our project desks with experienced and knowledgeable employees, we run the risk that we will lose Commercial Business Customers. 

We have many competitors, who, if we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing and distribution strategies effectively, could take sales and market share from us. 

We operate in a highly competitive market for home improvement products and services and have numerous large and small, direct and indirect competitors. The principal competitive factors in our industry include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. Our failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could affect our financial performance. Moreover, unanticipated changes in the pricing and other practices of our competitors, including the effects of competitor liquidation activities, may impact our expected results. 

An unusual number of product liability or breach of warranty claims for defective products could expose us to expensive claims and damage our standing with our customers. 

We are exposed to product liability and product warranty claims relating to the products we sell that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because we do not have direct control over the quality of products manufactured or supplied to us by our vendors and because we self-insure for such product liability and warranty claims, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in the products we stock and in our reputation. 

Our financial performance could suffer if we fail to properly maintain our critical information systems or if those systems are seriously disrupted. 

An important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions, and sales and cash flow growth is the identification and implementation of improvements to our management information systems to improve operations such as inventory replenishment systems, merchandise ordering, transportation, and receipt processing. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our systems. 

If the domestic and international supply chain for our products is disrupted, our sales and gross margin would be adversely impacted. 

We source the approximately 40,000 products we stock and sell from approximately 7,000 domestic and international vendors. We source many of those products directly from foreign manufacturers. Political or financial instability among suppliers, trade 

11 

Index  

restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs are beyond our control and could negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupted the movement of products through our supply chain. 

Our inability to effectively manage our relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products could negatively impact our ability to differentiate ourselves from competitors. 

Part of our expansion strategy includes continued differentiation from competitors. To better distinguish our product offering, we form strategic relationships with selected suppliers to market and develop products under a variety of recognized and respected brand names. The inability to effectively and efficiently manage the relationships with these suppliers could negatively impact our business plan and financial results. 

Item 1B – Unresolved Staff Comments 

None. 

Item 2 - Properties