Part I 

Item 1 - Business 

General Information 

Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) is a Fortune 50 company and the world’s second largest home improvement retailer, with specific emphasis on retail do-it-yourself (DIY) customers, do-it-for-me (DIFM) customers who utilize our installation services, and Commercial Business Customers. We offer a complete line of products and services for home decorating, maintenance, repair, remodeling, and property maintenance. As of February 1, 2008, we operated 1,534 stores in 50 states and Canada, with 174 million square feet of retail selling space. 

Incorporated in North Carolina in 1952, Lowe’s Companies, Inc. has been publicly held since 1961. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol “LOW.” 

See Item 6, “Selected Financial Data,” for historical revenues, profits and identifiable assets. 

Who We Serve 

We serve homeowners, renters and Commercial Business Customers. Homeowners and renters primarily consist of do-it-yourselfers, those taking advantage of our installed sales programs, and others buying for personal and family use. Commercial Business Customers include repair and remodeling contractors, electricians, landscapers, painters, plumbers, and commercial and residential property maintenance professionals, among others. 

To meet customers’ varying needs, we combine merchandise sales and service in categories that are relevant to them. We offer a full array of home improvement products in the following categories: appliances, lumber, flooring, paint, millwork, fashion plumbing, building materials, lighting, tools, lawn & landscape products, hardware, seasonal living, cabinets & countertops, home style & organization, rough plumbing, outdoor power equipment, nursery, rough electrical and home environment. 

Our Market 

Based on the most recent comprehensive data available, which is from 2006, we estimate the size of the U.S. home improvement market to be approximately $755 billion annually, comprised of $585 billion of product demand and $170 billion of installed labor opportunity. Data from a variety of primary and secondary sources, including trade associations, government publications, industry participants and other sources was analyzed as the basis for our estimate. This data captures a wide range of categories relevant to our business, including major appliances and garden supplies. 

As we continue to monitor economic data and the home improvement marketplace, there are many variables that impact consumer demand for the products and services we offer. Key indicators we monitor include housing turnover, home ownership levels, real disposable personal income and employment. We also monitor demographic and societal trends that are indicators of home improvement industry growth. Currently, all of these indicators suggest continued weakness in consumer demand. 

  §    Housing turnover, which peaked in calendar year 2005, continues to slow according to The National Association of Realtors®. Recent data suggests that 2008 will remain challenging for housing turnover.     

  §    According to the U.S. Census Bureau, while U.S. home ownership levels have declined somewhat from near-record levels over the past year, they remain above their historical average. Home ownership provides an established customer base for home maintenance and repair projects. The vast majority of our customers are homeowners and they are not willing to let what is often their most valuable financial asset deteriorate.     

  §    Although real disposable personal income continues to grow, it is projected to grow at a slower pace this year than last. Real disposable personal income growth is forecasted to be 2.1% for calendar 2008 compared with 3.1% for calendar 2007, as supported by data from the March 2008 Blue Chip Economic Indicators™.     

  §    Employment is an indicator of home improvement sales. The forecasted average unemployment rate of 5.3% for 2008 from the March 2008 Blue Chip Economic Indicators™ is higher than the 4.6% average seen in both 2006 and 2007 and suggests that Americans will face relatively less favorable employment prospects this year.     

4 

The home improvement retailing business includes many competitors. We compete with a number of traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply retailers, as well as other chains of warehouse home improvement stores and lumberyards in most of our trade areas. In addition, we compete, with respect to some of our products, with general merchandise stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs and online retailers. The principal competitive factors are customer service, location, price, product and brand selection, and name recognition.  

Our Stores 

New Store Expansion 

Our expansion strategy led to the opening of 153 stores in fiscal 2007 (149 new and four relocated) that included two primary prototypes: a 117,000-square-foot (117K) store for large markets and a 94,000-square-foot (94K) store to serve smaller markets. As we continue our expansion and strive to maximize our return on investment, we consider market demographics and land availability, among other factors, to determine the appropriate prototype for a particular market. In fiscal 2008, our growth will be comprised of 94K, 103,000-square-foot and 117K stores to meet the specific needs of each market. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

International Expansion 

In June 2005, we announced expansion plans into Canada. Based on information obtained through a thorough market assessment, we are adapting our U.S. business model to best meet the unique needs and attributes of the Canadian market. We opened six stores in Canada in fiscal 2007, which are our first stores outside the U.S., and will continue our Canadian expansion in 2008. 

In January 2007, we announced expansion plans into Mexico. We expect to open our first stores in Monterrey in fiscal 2009. 

Investments in Existing Stores 

During fiscal 2007, we continued our long history of investing in our existing stores to enhance the shopping experience for our retail and Commercial Business Customers. This included relamping our stores at regular intervals to ensure they remained bright, adding new displays, improving point-of-sale and directional signage, adding more product selection, repainting our building exteriors, and re-striping our parking lots. We categorize our merchandising-related investments in our stores as resets or remerchandising. 

Resets 

Resets are necessary to drive comparable store sales and keep our stores fresh with new and innovative products. These resets involve the replacement of a particular product or vendor, and generally do not require major changes in the store. We conducted hundreds of resets in fiscal 2007. 

Remerchandising 

In fiscal 2007, we completed the remerchandising of 116 of our earlier format stores to make them more closely resemble our most current store prototypes. These remerchandising efforts focused on moving entire departments, improving adjacencies and enhancing the shopability within the appliances, cabinets & countertops, flooring, fashion plumbing, paint, lighting, home style & organization, lumber and building materials departments. In addition, we replaced or refurbished all of our selling centers, including the returns and customer service areas of these stores. All new interior graphics, signage, and way-finding materials were also added to increase shopability and brighten the atmosphere. Finally, self check-out was installed in all 116 of our remerchandised stores. We continuously make these investments to maintain our best-in-class stores. These enhancements enable our stores to continue to offer customers the shopping experience and environment they deserve, and also deliver stronger sales. 

5 

Serving Our Customers 

Our vision is to be our customers’ first choice for home improvement. To achieve this vision, we continue to focus on excellent customer service, Everyday Low Prices, and innovative operational, merchandising, marketing and distribution strategies. We believe customers’ perceptions of the quality of service determine a retailer’s success or failure. Therefore, we are always looking for ways to improve our level of service, optimize store labor and drive in-store process improvement, build our talent pool, and enhance our sales culture. The following are several key initiatives we believe will continue to support our growth and success going forward. 

Everyday Low Prices 

Our customers do not have to wait for a sale to find a great value. We offer low prices every day. Our promise to customers is that if they find a lower everyday or advertised price on an identical stock product at a local competitor, we will not just match that price, but we will beat it by 10%. 

Specialty Sales 

We recognize the opportunity that our Specialty Sales initiatives represent and the importance of these businesses to our long-term growth. Our Specialty Sales initiatives include three major categories: Installed Sales, Special Order Sales and Commercial Business Customer sales, internally referred to as the “Big 3.” In addition, our effort to utilize e-Commerce to drive sales and conveniently provide product information to customers is managed by our Specialty Sales group. 

Installed Sales 

We offer installation services in over 40 categories with flooring, millwork and cabinets & countertops generating the highest sales. Our Installed Sales model, which includes the separation of selling and administrative tasks, allows our sales associates to shift their focus to project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to an installation job are efficiently executed. Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, has proven to be a successful service initiative accounting for approximately 6% of total sales in fiscal 2007. We also continue to refine our offerings, including an ongoing test of an in-home selling model for certain Installed Sales categories. 

Special Order Sales 

Our Special Order Sales product offerings provide our customers the opportunity to select a wider assortment of product options beyond the approximately 40,000 we carry in our stores. We are making the Special Order Sales process easier for customers by providing more product displays and electronic product catalogs in our stores, as well as on Lowes.com. We continue to enhance integrated design tools and ordering systems storewide in order for customers to envision projects, as well as to efficiently receive quotations and complete an order. 

Special Order kiosks, whether electronic or literature-based, are available in various departments throughout the store for facilitating special orders in addition to what is made available on Lowes.com. These kiosks facilitate the ability of customers to view product pictures, and special order hundreds of thousands of products. 

Our Special Order Express initiative is intended to allow for faster and more efficient delivery of Special Order products to customers, while at the same time manage our inventory investment. Under this approach, certain items that do not have enough individual store demand to be economically stocked in all stores, but have sizeable demand across a group of stores, will be kept on hand in our distribution centers. This allows for fast shipment to our stores, or in some cases, direct shipment to a customer’s home. Our Special Order Express initiative allows us to balance quickly satisfying customers’ needs with a desire to minimize our inventory investment. We will continue to refine and enhance this initiative in fiscal 2008. 

Commercial Business Customers 

Growth in total sales to Commercial Business Customers outpaced the Company average in fiscal 2007. Our focus is to continue offering exceptional service to repair/remodel, residential property management, and business maintenance customers. Because we understand that time is money for these businesses, we continue to focus on ways to tailor our product and service offerings for these customers to quickly find what they need, when they need it. 

In order to enable Commercial Business Customers to quickly access the products they need, our stores are merchandised with high-volume, take-with product appropriate for the season. We continue to evaluate and expand our contractor packs, which are economical quantities of the items Commercial Business Customers use most. In addition, Commercial Business Customers can phone or fax their orders in advance or order online for pickup the same day or the next day, depending on the time of day the order is placed. For added convenience, we deliver to job sites seven days a week in most areas. We want to be a valued business partner to Commercial Business Customers, so we ensure our LowesForPros.com site features up-to-date articles, job estimators and business forms, e-newsletters, statistics and other vital information that Commercial Business Customers can use for their business. 

6 

e-Commerce 

Our multi-channel capabilities enable customers to buy at the store or online. Lowes.com is an information destination for customers around the world and allows customers to buy online and ship anywhere in the U.S. Our site facilitates customers researching, comparing and buying Lowe’s products and services whenever and from wherever they desire. We offer how-to and buying guides online to help customers make smarter, more informed buying decisions and to empower them in their home improvement projects. We also offer customers the ability to check product availability at their local store and our direct-ship facilities, and offer store pick-up and hassle-free returns regardless of where the product was purchased. As more and more people are using the internet to research the products they want, we continue to add content to our site and enhance our merchandise selection to meet their needs. 

Credit Financing 

We offer a proprietary credit card for retail customers. In addition, we offer a Lowe’s Project Card in all stores. Lowe’s Project Card provides a major project, in-store financing solution to complement our Lowe’s Customer Revolving Credit Card. 

We also offer proprietary credit programs for Commercial Business Customers. They include a Lowe’s Business Account, which is ideal for small- to medium-size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe’s Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium- to large-size businesses that pay in full each month. 

See Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for a description of our credit programs. 

In addition, we accept Visa®, MasterCard®, Discover® and American Express® credit cards, as well as debit cards from all major networks. 

Our Products 

Product Sourcing 

We source our products from approximately 7,000 merchandise vendors worldwide, with no single vendor accounting for more than six percent of total purchases. Management believes that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all our products. Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for our customers and gross margin improvement for Lowe’s. 

In addition to offering a wide selection of national brand name merchandise, we are committed to building long-term value for Lowe’s through the development of exclusive, proprietary brands where we focus on delivering the best quality, the best value and recognizably differentiated products to meet our customers’ needs and wants. 

National Brand Name Merchandise 

In many product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill confidence in their purchase. A typical Lowe's home improvement store stocks approximately 40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available through our Special Order Sales system. Each store carries a wide selection of national brand name merchandise such as KitchenAid®, Samsung, Whirlpool®, Pella®, Werner®, Kohler®, DeWalt®, John Deere, Troy-Bilt®, Jenn-Air®, Bosch®, Valspar®, Owens Corning® and many more. Our merchandise selection provides the DIY, DIFM and Commercial Business Customer a one-stop shop for products needed to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance or construction projects. See page 42 of Lowe’s 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders for the table summarizing sales by product category for each of the last three fiscal years. 

Proprietary Brands 

To further differentiate our offering, we carry many brands that are exclusive to Lowe’s. These unique brands cover several categories like lighting, flooring, home style & organization, tools and more, and give our customers great quality and value. Exclusive brand names such as Premier Living™, Kobalt®, Portfolio®, Harbor Breeze®, Reliabilt®, Perfect Flame™, Top-Choice® Lumber and Utilitech™ are found only at Lowe’s. 

Distribution Network 

To efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate 13 highly-automated regional distribution centers (RDCs). The RDCs are strategically located in North Carolina (2), Georgia, Indiana, Pennsylvania, Texas, California, Ohio, Florida, Connecticut, Wyoming, Illinois and Oregon. On average, each RDC serves 118 stores. We expect to open an additional RDC in Pittston, Pennsylvania in fiscal 2008. We also lease a third-party distribution facility to serve our Canadian stores. 

We operate 14 flatbed distribution centers (FDCs) to distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, irrigation pipe, vinyl sidings, ladders and building materials. We own 12 and lease two of these FDCs. We expect to open an additional FDC in Purvis, Mississippi in fiscal 2008. 

We also operate four facilities to support our import business, Special Order Sales and internet fulfillment. We own two and lease two 

7 

of these facilities. In addition, we utilize three third-party transload facilities. These facilities do not hold inventory, but are the first point of receipt for imported products. The transload facilities sort and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and forecasts. 

On average in fiscal 2007, over 72% of the stock merchandise we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to stores from our vendors. 

Building Our Brand 

Customers want Lowe’s to serve as a resource for products and projects to help them maintain and enhance their homes and communities. Our Marketing and Advertising programs, communicated via television, radio, newspaper, magazine, direct mail, sponsorships, internet and in-store programs, all play a critical role in cultivating this emotional and rational connection with the consumer. Through an extensive understanding of our customers and their needs and expectations, we deliver a message that will develop loyal customer relationships and differentiate Lowe’s from other home improvement sources. 

Media Investment 

A combination of national broadcast and cable television, supplemented by an array of national magazines and internet banner advertising, provides the platform for building brand awareness. We complement the national media investment in key markets by local television and radio schedules. Newspaper circulars and ROP (Run of Press) serve as the primary communication vehicle for retail messaging, and regularly feature Lowe’s breadth of product selection, customer services and Everyday Low Price positioning. Major promotional events receive network radio support with a local radio overlay in key markets. We promote internet access to Lowe’s retail advertising through the use of online banner advertising. The Lowe’s brand has also been successfully integrated into television programming, including the Oprah Winfrey show, Rate My Space on HGTV and Indoors Out on the DIY network.  

Direct to Consumer Marketing 

We continue to refine programs to respond to the changing needs and lifestyles of consumers. Through innovative database technology, we create direct mail campaigns based on precise criteria such as purchase activity, affinity group subscription(s), household demographics, regional weather patterns and even consumers who are preparing to move, are in the process of moving or have recently moved into a new home (“New Movers”). Despite the housing slow-down, New Movers continue to spend considerably more on their previous and new homes than the average homeowner. This behavior has helped guide the decision to further invest in this particular consumer base over the course of the next several years. As a result, Lowe’s has finalized a two-year agreement with the United States Postal Service’s change of address program and will add this to its multi-dimensional portfolio of direct mail tactics that speak to the highly engaged New Movers. Additionally, opt-in e-mail programs line up with Lowe’s affinity and education programs: Lowe’s Creative Ideas for Home and Garden ®, Lowe’s Creative Ideas for Outdoor Living ™ and Lowe’s Creative Ideas for Woodworkers ™. Membership in the Team Lowe’s Racing Fan Club and participation in the Build-n-Grow children’s clinics creates another level of engagement with our consumers both inside Lowe’s stores and beyond our walls. Each of these varying acquisition and retention programs creates loyal Lowe’s customers. 

Multicultural Marketing 

Lowe’s reaches its diverse communities and customer base in various manners, including multicultural marketing and outreach to Hispanic, African-American and Asian customers. For these cultural groups, Lowe’s executes advertising across many media, including television, radio and print, in both English and native languages. Some of the unique efforts include La Cancha Lowe’s, Lowe’s Hispanic mobile marketing program providing fun to families at key soccer events across the country; Lowe’s sponsorship of the CIAA’s annual Basketball Tournament, the nation’s oldest black athletic conference consisting of ten historically African-American institutions of higher education, that has blossomed into one of largest collegiate post-season tournaments in the country; and Lowe’s new Chinese, Korean, and Vietnamese language websites offering a new way for many Asian consumers to learn more about home improvement. 

Team Lowe’s Racing 

As one of the world’s fastest growing sports, NASCAR is an important part of building our brand. We are the proud sponsor of Jimmie Johnson, back-to-back NASCAR Sprint® Cup Series champion, the #48 car and Lowe’s Motor Speedway. We also host hospitality events at various sites throughout the racing season, leveraging and further building membership in the Team Lowe’s Racing Fan Club. In 2007, we continued to foster our relationship with Adrian Fernandez, who drove in the NASCAR Busch® Series race in Mexico City for Lowe’s. In addition, we teamed up with Adrian Fernandez and Fernandez Racing to field the #15 car in the American Le Mans Series. 

Reaching Out 

We believe community involvement extends beyond the boundaries of our stores. Following are some examples of how we are partnering with respected organizations to make a difference in our communities: 

8 

Habitat for Humanity 

Lowe’s is a partner with Habitat for Humanity International, helping provide safe, affordable housing for thousands of working families. Lowe’s contributed more than $4 million to Habitat projects in 2007, and Lowe’s employee volunteers gave hands-on support at home sites coast-to-coast to help Habitat families build their dreams. 

Lowe’s also underwrites Habitat for Humanity’s Women Build program, empowering women volunteer teams to construct Habitat homes. The volunteers in this program built more than 90 homes in 2007. 

American Red Cross 

As a national disaster relief partner with the American Red Cross, Lowe’s made it easier for Red Cross chapters to respond to disasters such as fires, floods and tornadoes with much-needed supplies from local stores. We also worked side-by-side with the American Red Cross at hurricane fairs along the Gulf and East coasts. In 2007, Lowe’s contributed more than $500,000 to the American Red Cross, including customer and employee donations. 

The Home Safety Council 

Founded by Lowe’s in 1993, The Home Safety Council is a nonprofit organization with a vision of creating safer American homes. Thanks to a $3 million contribution in 2007 from the Lowe’s Charitable and Educational Foundation, The Home Safety Council helped reach thousands of children and families with vital safety information. 

Lowe’s Charitable and Educational Foundation 

Founded in 1957, the Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF) has a long and proud history of contributing to grassroots community projects. LCEF’s primary philanthropic focus areas include community and public school improvement projects, safe and affordable housing, and education scholarships. LCEF provides funding only to 501(c)(3) organizations. In 2007, LCEF awarded more than $19 million in grants. Two specific initiatives of LCEF during 2007 were SkillsUSA and Rebuilding Together. 

In 2007, Lowe’s took steps through LCEF to address the country’s growing skilled worker shortage and “skills gap” by contributing $500,000 to SkillsUSA programs nationwide. Thirty grants in 21 states received the first SkillsUSA/Lowe’s $10,000 education grants supporting education program enhancements and community service projects. Fifty-eight schools received CareerSafe vouchers, demonstrating Lowe’s corporate commitment to job site safety. Lowe’s has increased our commitment to SkillsUSA with a pledge of $1 million for 2008. 

Lowe’s lives up to its tagline, “Let’s Build Something Together,” every day. In 2007, LCEF launched a partnership with Rebuilding Together, the nation’s largest all-volunteer home rehabilitation organization. Grants ranging from $15,000 to $20,000 kicked off rehabilitation projects in Long Island, N.Y., Orange County, Calif., and Broward County, Fla., and LCEF pledged another $1 million in grants to Rebuilding Together affiliates. Between fall 2007 and spring 2008, that $1 million was slated to finance at least 100 projects. 

Lowe’s Heroes 

Lowe’s Heroes employee volunteers tackle local problems in their communities. In 2007, Lowe’s stores worked with representatives from nonprofit organizations and concerned individuals from their communities to help improve schools, build Habitat for Humanity homes or address safety issues—making their communities better places to live. 

Lowe’s Employee Relief Fund 

Lowe’s Employee Relief Fund is dedicated to distributing emergency funds to our employees who face financial hardships due to natural disasters, house fires or illness. The Company matches employee donations to the Fund. Since 1999, Lowe’s Employee Relief Fund has assisted more than 5,300 employees with more than $6 million in funds. 

Information Systems 

We are continuously assessing and upgrading our information systems in an effort to support growth, augment new sales initiatives, control costs and enable better decision-making. During the last several years, we have made substantial investments in developing and purchasing new computer systems. 

We have a point-of-sale system, electronic bar code scanning system, various design systems, a wired and wireless network, and dual UNIX servers in each of our stores. These systems provide the stores with real-time perpetual inventory information, support all in-store selling, support labor planning and management, and provide support for a variety of store administrative functions. In addition, these store systems provide the customer support center organizations with information needed to support the stores. Key customer support center groups using this information include inventory replenishment, finance, human resources and merchandising. Store information is communicated to the customer support center's central computers via a terrestrial based (MPLS) network with back-up provided by a satellite-based wide area network. These corporate systems provide customer checkout with automated credit card and 

9 

Index  

check approval, host a variety of centralized design and specialty order systems for the stores, provide store-based perpetual inventory information, provide sales performance reporting, and support accurate processing of store sales transactions. In addition to the store and corporate office computing infrastructure, we also have significant computing capacity at each RDC to support these highly automated facilities. 

We have invested significant resources to safeguard sensitive employee and customer information. We work closely with industry standards groups to incorporate security best practices into our technology environment. Our two state-of-the-art data centers provide many additional fail-safe features to improve system availability and mitigate risks associated with unplanned outages. Our second data center opened in late 2007 and provides complete back-up to our primary facility. With these two facilities, the Company is well positioned for future growth. 

Employees 

As of February 1, 2008, we employed approximately 160,000 full-time and 56,000 part-time employees, none of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with its employees to be good. 

Available Information 

Our internet website address is: www.Lowes.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may also read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Item 1A – Risk Factors