Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions)

General

During 2012 the Company grew its revenue in a challenging economic environment. Net sales for 2012 increased 2.3% in comparison to 2011 on a 1.7% increase in volume and a 0.6% increase in revenue per requisition. The Company's acquisition of Orchid in December 2011 increased revenue and volume by 1.1% and 0.3%, respectively, in 2012 compared to 2011. The Company's acquisition of MEDTOX on July 31, 2012 increased revenue and volume by 1.0% and 1.4%, respectively, in 2012 compared to 2011.

During 2012, the impact of inclement weather (notably from Super Storm Sandy in October 2012) reduced the Company's revenues and diluted earnings per share by an estimated $16.0 and $0.09, respectively.

Changes in governmental regulations will have a significant impact on the Company's operations in 2013. The Affordable Care Act Baseline for the 2013 update to the Clinical Lab Fee Schedule was negative 0.95% and the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act rebaselined the fee schedule an additional 2% lower. These fee schedule reductions became effective on January 1, 2013. If mandatory sequestration is implemented, the Company will receive an additional 2% reduction to the Clinical Lab Fee Schedule and a separate 2% reduction to the Physician Fee Schedule effective April 1, 2013. The Company also faces significant revenue impacts in 2013 as a result of a variety of other government reductions in payment for laboratory services. Altogether, the Company estimates that these payment reductions will negatively impact 2013 revenue by over $50.0 and diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.35. 

Seasonality

The majority of the Company’s testing volume is dependent on patient visits to physician offices and other providers of health care. Volume of testing generally declines during the year-end holiday periods and other major holidays. In addition, volume declines due to inclement weather may reduce net revenues and cash flows. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year.

40

Index

Results of Operations (amounts in millions except Revenue Per Requisition info)

Years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010

Net Sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in net sales for the three years ended December 31, 2012 has been driven primarily by acquisitions made in all years (most significantly in the second half of 2010), along with growth in the Company's managed care business, increased revenue from third parties (Medicare and Medicaid), the Company's continued shift in test mix to higher-priced genomic and esoteric tests, and growth in revenue per requisition in the Company's routine testing. 

During the fourth quarter of 2012, the impact of inclement weather reduced revenue by an estimated $16.0. The increase in net sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared with 2011 was driven primarily by the MEDTOX and Orchid acquisitions and by contributions from the milder winter weather experienced in the first quarter of 2012, along with positive volume growth in genomic and esoteric testing and Ontario, Canada, offset by volume losses sustained in the fourth quarter of 2012 due to super storm Sandy. Genomic and esoteric testing volume as a percentage of total volume was 23.7% in both 2012 and 2011. Volume growth for genomic and esoteric testing was primarily due to the incremental volume from Orchid as well as growth in the NuSwab®series of women's health tests, offset by declines in histology and surgical pathology volumes. The decline in price in genomic and esoteric testing is a result of a lower mix of reproductive and histology testing. Net sales of the Ontario subsidiary were $335.0 for 2012 compared to $309.4 in 2011, an increase of $25.6, or 8.3%. Net sales of the Ontario subsidiary were negatively impacted by a stronger U.S. dollar in 2012 as compared with 2011 and a weaker dollar in 2011 compared to 2010. In Canadian dollars, net sales of the Ontario subsidiary for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were CN$334.7, CN$306.0 and CN$288.5, respectively.

In 2011, the Company's 2010 acquisition of Genzyme Genetics contributed 6.8% to the overall 10.8% growth in revenue and 0.9% to the overall 3.5% growth in volume.

41

Index

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cost of sales (primarily laboratory and distribution costs) increased 4.7% in 2012 as compared with 2011 primarily due to incremental costs from acquisitions including MEDTOX and Orchid and to increases in employee benefits cost. The increase in cost of sales as a percentage of net sales is primarily due to the impact of inclement weather, lower margins on acquired operations that have not yet been fully integrated as well as slower volume growth.

Cost of sales has increased over the three year period ended December 31, 2012 primarily due to overall growth in the Company's volume, as well as increases in labor, the continued shift in test mix to higher cost genomic and esoteric testing and the impact of acquisitions. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales has increased during the three year period ended December 31, 2012 from 58.1% in 2010 to 60.3% in 2012. The increase in 2012 cost of sales as a percentage of net sales is primarily attributable to recent acquisitions that have not been fully integrated into the Company's operating cost structure as of December 31, 2012. Cost of sales of the Ontario subsidiary contributed $16.8 and $17.4 or 0.5% and 0.6% of the increase in cost of sales in 2012 and 2011, respectively. These increases were due to continued growth in the business. Labor and testing supplies comprise over 77% of the Company’s cost of sales.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to 19.7% in 2012 compared to 20.9% in 2011. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales is partially due to expense management and to efficiencies from acquired operations that are being integrated into the Company's operating cost structure. Additionally, bad debt expense decreased to 4.3% of net sales in 2012 as compared with 4.6% in 2011 primarily due to improved collection trends resulting from process improvement programs within the Company's billing department and field operations. These decreases in selling, general and administrative expenses were partially offset by $9.9 in fees from the MEDTOX acquisition recorded during 2012. Selling, general and administrative expenses of the Ontario subsidiary increased $7.1 and $6.6 or 0.6% and 0.6% of the prior year totals in 2012 and 2011, respectively. These increases were due to continued growth in the business. During 2011, the Company recorded the settlement of the Hunter Labs litigation in California for $34.5 ($49.5 settlement less previously recorded reserves of $15.0) in selling, general and administrative expenses.

Amortization of Intangibles and Other Assets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets over the three year period ended December 31, 2012 primarily reflects the impact of acquisitions closed during all three years. During 2012, the Company recorded $6.2 in accelerated amortization relating to the termination of a licensing agreement.

42

Index

Restructuring and Other Special Charges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

During 2012, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $25.3. The charges were comprised of $16.2 in severance and other personnel costs and $19.6 in facility-related costs primarily associated with the ongoing integration activities of Orchid and the Integrated Genetics Division (formerly Genzyme Genetics) and costs associated with the previously announced termination of an executive vice president. These charges were offset by the reversal of previously established reserves of $6.3 in unused severance and $4.2 in unused facility-related costs.

During 2011, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $44.6. Of this amount, $27.4 related to severance and other personnel costs, and $22.0 primarily related to facility-related costs associated with the ongoing integration of certain acquisitions including Genzyme Genetics and Westcliff. These charges were offset by restructuring credits of $4.8, resulting from the reversal of unused severance and facility closure liabilities. In addition, the Company recorded fixed assets impairment charges of $18.9 primarily related to equipment, computer systems and leasehold improvements in closed facilities. The Company also recorded special charges of $14.8 related to the write-off of certain assets and liabilities related to an investment made in prior years, along with a $2.6 write-off of an uncollectible receivable from a past installment sale of one of the Company's lab operations.

During 2010, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $5.8 primarily related to the closing of redundant and underutilized facilities. Of this amount, $8.0 related to severance and other employee costs for employees primarily in the affected facilities, and $3.1 related to contractual obligations associated with leased facilities and other facility related costs. The Company also reduced its prior restructuring accruals by $5.3, comprised of $4.7 of previously recorded facility costs and $0.6 of employee severance benefits as a result of changes in cost estimates on the restructuring initiatives. In addition, the Company recorded a special charge of $6.2 related to the write-off of development costs incurred on systems abandoned during the year.

From time to time, the Company implements cost savings initiatives. These initiatives result from the integration of recently acquired businesses and from reducing the number of facilities and employees in an effort to balance the Company's cost of operations with current test volume trends while maintaining the high quality of its services that the marketplace demands. It is difficult to determine the nature, timing and extent of these activities until adequate planning has been completed and reviewed. The continuing economic downturn being experienced in the United States and globally has had an impact on the Company's volume. The Company believes that any restructuring costs which may be incurred in future periods will be more than offset by subsequent savings realized from these potential actions and that any related restructuring charges will not have a material impact on the Company's operations or liquidity.

As part of the Clearstone integration, the Company also recorded a $6.9 loss on the disposal of one of its European subsidiaries in Other, net under Other income (expenses) during 2012.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in interest expense for 2012 as compared with 2011 is primarily due to the issuance of $1,000.0 of senior notes in August 2012. This increase was partially offset by the settlement of approximately $155.1 of the zero-coupon subordinated notes during 2011. In addition, during December 2011, the Company replaced its existing term loan facility (the "Term Loan Facility") with a new revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), which is described further in "Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements." The new Revolving Credit Facility had a lower effective interest rate during 2012 compared with the effective interest rate on the Term Loan Facility during 2011. Finally, there were no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility during the fourth quarter of 2012.

The increase in interest expense for 2011 as compared to 2010 is primarily due to interest incurred during 2011 in connection with the senior notes offering of $925.0 in November 2010, which was outstanding for all of 2011. Certain interest related costs decreased due to lower average borrowings outstanding during 2011 as compared with 2010 primarily due to principal payments on the prior Term Loan Facility and the settlement of approximately $155.1 of the zero-coupon subordinated notes during the 

43

Index

year. In addition, the effective interest rate on the Term Loan Facility was lower in 2011 as compared with 2010 due to the expiration of the interest rate swap on March 31, 2011. In conjunction with the repayment and cancellation of its old credit agreement in December 2011, the Company recorded approximately $1.0 of unamortized debt costs as interest expense in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company recorded $7.0 of bridge financing fees in the 2010 period related to the signing of the definitive agreement to acquire Genzyme Genetics in September 2010.

Equity Method Income

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Equity method income represents the Company's ownership share in joint venture partnerships along with equity investments in other companies in the healthcare industry. The increase in income in 2012 compared with 2011 is primarily due to the Company's share of losses during 2011 in the Cincinnati, Ohio joint venture (liquidation initiated in the second half of 2011) and the Canada, China, Singapore and Western Europe equity method investments (acquired by the Company in the second half of 2011). In addition, in conjunction with the liquidation of one of its joint ventures, the Company recorded a $2.9 increase in equity method income during the second quarter of 2012.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The effective tax rate for 2012 was favorably impacted by an increase in unrecognized income tax benefits compared to 2011, partially offset by an increase in tax on the additional investment in the Company's Canadian subsidiary. The effective tax rate for 2011 was negatively impacted by a decrease in unrecognized income tax benefits compared to 2010, the divestiture of certain Orchid paternity contracts, and foreign losses not tax effected.

Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position

The Company's strong cash-generating capability and financial condition typically have provided ready access to capital markets. The Company's principal source of liquidity is operating cash flow, supplemented by proceeds from debt offerings. This cash-generating capability is one of the Company's fundamental strengths and provides substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. The Company's senior unsecured Revolving Credit Facility is further discussed in "Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements."

On July 31, 2012, the Company completed its acquisition of MEDTOX for $236.4 in cash, excluding transaction fees. The acquisition was financed through borrowings from the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility and cash on hand.

On August 23, 2012, the Company issued $1,000.0 in new senior notes pursuant to the Company's effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3. The new senior notes consisted of $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.20% Senior Notes due 2017 and $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Notes due 2022. The net proceeds were used to repay $625.0 of the outstanding borrowings under the Company's Revolving Credit Facility. The remaining proceeds are available for other general corporate purposes.

The Company believes that its cash from operations, in combination with available cash on hand and borrowing capacity, will be sufficient to satisfy its obligations in 2013. The Company's $350.0 Senior Note matured on February 1, 2013 was paid with available cash on hand and $30.0 from the Revolving Credit Facility. The Company has recently discussed its intention to increase its ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA over time from 2.0 to 1.0 as of December 2012 to 2.5 to 1.0. The Company believes that it can achieve this through use of its Revolving Credit Facility and its ready access to debt capital markets. In the event that the Company needs additional liquidity, it believes it can readily access the debt capital markets.

Operating Activities

In 2012, the Company’s operations provided $841.4 of cash, reflecting the Company’s solid business results. The Company continued to focus on efforts to increase cash collections from all payers and to generate on-going improvements to the claim submission processes. At December 31 2012, a balance sheet reclassification adjustment was made to reduce cash and accounts 

44

Index

payable to net positive cash balances in certain accounts at one of the Company's financial institutions with outstanding checks in specific accounts with that same bank as there is a technical right of offset for cash accounts within the same bank. This adjustment included an out of period one time correction that reduced 2012 reported operating cash flows by $34.0, which is not material to the previously reported financial statements.

The Company made contributions to the defined benefit retirement plan (“Company Plan”) of $11.3, $0.0 and $0.0 in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In October 2009, the Company received approval from its Board of Directors to freeze any additional service-based credits for any years of service after December 31, 2009 on the Company Plan and the PEP. Both plans have been closed to new participants. Employees participating in the Company Plan and the PEP no longer earn service-based credits, but

continue to earn interest credits. In addition, effective January 1, 2010, all employees eligible for the defined contribution retirement plan (the “401K Plan”) receive a minimum 3% non-elective contribution (“NEC”) concurrent with each payroll period. The NEC replaces the Company match, which has been discontinued. Employees are not required to make a contribution to the 401K Plan to receive the NEC. The NEC is non-forfeitable and vests immediately. The 401K Plan also permits discretionary contributions by the Company of 1% to 3% of pay for eligible employees based on years of service. Non-elective and discretionary contributions were $49.0 in 2012, compared to $44.3 in 2011 and $40.6 in 2010.

Projected pension expense for the Company Plan and the PEP is expected to remain at $12.1 in 2013. The Company plans to make contributions of $6.5 to the Company Plan during 2013. See “Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements” for a further discussion of the Company’s pension and postretirement plans.

Investing Activities

Capital expenditures were $173.8, $145.7 and $126.1 for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in capital spending in 2012 was related to certain integration and cost savings initiatives started by the Company. The Company expects capital expenditures of approximately $200.0 to $220.0 in 2013. The Company's projected capital expenditures are higher than historical levels due to near-term investments in facility consolidation and replacement of a major testing platform. Such expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations, as well as borrowings under the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility as needed.

The Company remains committed to growing its business through strategic acquisitions and licensing agreements. The Company has invested a total of $1,650.8 over the past three years in strategic business acquisitions, including MEDTOX Scientific in 2012, Orchid in 2011 and Genzyme Genetics in 2010. These acquisitions have helped strengthen the Company’s geographic presence along with expanding capabilities in the specialty testing operations. The Company believes the acquisition market remains attractive with a number of opportunities to strengthen its scientific capabilities, grow esoteric testing capabilities and increase presence in key geographic areas.

The Company has invested a total of $2.9 over the past three years in licensing new testing technologies and had $41.0 net book value of capitalized patents, licenses and technology as of December 31, 2012. While the Company continues to believe its strategy of entering into licensing and technology distribution agreements with the developers of leading-edge technologies will provide future growth in revenues, there are certain risks associated with these investments. These risks include, but are not limited to, the failure of the licensed technology to gain broad acceptance in the marketplace and/or that insurance companies, managed care organizations, or Medicare and Medicaid will not approve reimbursement for these tests at a level commensurate with the costs of running the tests. Any or all of these circumstances could result in impairment in the value of the related capitalized licensing costs.

Financing Activities

On December 21, 2011, the Company entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") providing for the Revolving Credit Facility, a five-year $1,000.0 senior unsecured revolving credit facility with Bank of America, N.A., acting as Administrative Agent, Barclays Capital as Syndication Agent, and a group of financial institutions as lending parties. As part of the new Revolving Credit Facility, the Company repaid all of the outstanding principal balances of $318.8 on its existing term loan facility and $235.0 on its existing revolving credit facility. In conjunction with the repayment and cancellation of its old credit facility, the Company recorded approximately $1.0 of remaining unamortized debt costs as interest expense in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2011.

The balances outstanding on the Company's Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 were $0.0 and $560.0, respectively. The Revolving Credit Facility bears interest at varying rates based upon a base rate or LIBOR plus (in each case) a percentage based on the Company's debt rating with Standard & Poor's and Moody's Rating Services. The Revolving Credit Facility is classified as long-term debt due to the expiration date of the agreement on December 21, 2016.

45

Index

The Revolving Credit Facility is available for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, funding of share repurchases and other restricted payments permitted under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement also contains limitations on aggregate subsidiary indebtedness and a debt covenant that requires that the Company maintain on the last day of any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, in each case taken as one accounting period, a ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, and Amortization) of not more than 3.0 to 1.0. The Company was in compliance with all covenants in the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA was 2.0 to 1.0.

As of December 31, 2012, the effective interest rate on the Revolving Credit Facility was 1.2%.

On August 23, 2012, the Company issued $1,000.0 in new senior notes pursuant to the Company's effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3. The new senior notes consisted of $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.20% Senior Notes due 2017 and $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Notes due 2022. The net proceeds were used to repay $625.0 of the outstanding borrowings under the Company's Revolving Credit Facility. The remaining proceeds are available for other general corporate purposes.

The Senior Notes due 2017 and Senior Notes due 2022 bear interest at the rate of 2.20% per annum and 3.75% per annum, respectively, payable semi-annually on February 23 and August 23 of each year, commencing February 23, 2013.

On October 28, 2010, in conjunction with the acquisition of Genzyme Genetics, the Company entered into a $925.0 Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement, among the Company, the lenders named therein and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent (the “Bridge Facility”). The Company replaced and terminated the Bridge Facility in November 2010 by making an offering in the debt capital markets. On November 19, 2010, the Company sold $925.0 in debt securities, consisting of $325.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.125% Senior Notes due May 15, 2016 and $600.0 aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Senior Notes due November 15, 2020. Beginning on May 15, 2011, interest on the Senior Notes due 2016 and 2020 is payable semi-annually on May 15 and November 15. On December 1, 2010, the acquisition of Genzyme Genetics was funded by the proceeds from the issuance of these Notes ($915.4) and with cash on hand.

During 2012, the Company purchased $516.5 of its stock representing 5.9 shares. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had remaining outstanding authorization from the Board of Directors to purchase $68.0 of Company common stock. On February 8, 2013, the Company announced the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of $1,000.0 of additional shares of the Company’s common stock.

During 2012, the Company settled notices to convert $9.8 aggregate principal amount at maturity of its zero-coupon subordinated notes with a conversion value of $12.0. The total cash used for these settlements was $8.2 and the Company also issued forty-one thousand additional shares of common stock.

On September 12, 2012, the Company announced that for the period of September 12, 2012 to March 11, 2013, the zero-coupon subordinated notes will accrue contingent cash interest at a rate of no less than 0.125% of the average market price of a zero-coupon subordinated note for the five trading days ended September 7, 2012, in addition to the continued accrual of the original issue discount.

On January 2, 2013, the Company announced that its zero-coupon subordinated notes may be converted into cash and common stock at the conversion rate of 13.4108 per $1,000 principal amount at maturity of the notes, subject to the terms of the zero-coupon subordinated notes and the Indenture, dated as of October 24, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee and conversion agent. In order to exercise the option to convert all or a portion of the zero-coupon subordinated notes, holders are required to validly surrender their zero-coupon subordinated notes at any time during the calendar quarter beginning January 1, 2013, through the close of business on the last business day of the calendar quarter, which is 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, March 29, 2013. If notices of conversion are received, the Company plans to settle the cash portion of the conversion obligation with cash on hand and/or borrowings under the revolving credit facility. 

Credit Ratings

The Company’s debt ratings of Baa2 from Moody’s and BBB from Standard and Poor’s contribute to its ability to access capital markets.

46

Index

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Contingent future licensing payments will be made if certain events take place, such as the launch of a specific test, the transfer of certain technology, and when specified revenue milestones are met.

(b)As announced by the Company on January 2, 2013, holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes may choose to convert their notes during the first quarter of 2013 subject to terms as defined in the note agreement. See “Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements” and "Credit Ratings" above for further information regarding the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes.

(c)The table does not include obligations under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, which are included in "Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements." Benefits under the Company's postretirement medical plan are made when claims are submitted for payment, the timing of which is not practicable to estimate.

(d)The table does not include the Company’s reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. The Company had a $46.2 and $63.5 reserve for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which is included in “Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Substantially all of these tax reserves are classified in other long-term liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2012 and 2011.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company does not have transactions or relationships with “special purpose” entities, and the Company does not have any off balance sheet financing other than normal operating leases.

Other Commercial Commitments

As of December 31, 2012, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $37.4, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs. Letters of credit provided by the Company are secured by the Company’s Revolving Credit Facility and are renewed annually, around mid-year.

The partnership units of the holders of the noncontrolling interest in the Company's Ontario, Canada (“Ontario”) subsidiary were acquired by the Company on February 8, 2010 for $137.5. On February 17, 2010, the Company completed a transaction to sell the units acquired from the previous noncontrolling interest holder to a new Canadian partner for the same price. As a result of this transaction, the Company recorded a component of noncontrolling interest in other liabilities and a component in mezzanine equity. Upon the completion of these two transactions, the Company's financial ownership percentage in its Ontario subsidiary remained unchanged at 85.6%. Concurrent with the sale to the new partner, the partnership agreement for the Ontario subsidiary was amended and restated with substantially the same terms as the previous agreement. 

On October 14, 2011, the Company issued notice to a noncontrolling interest holder in its Ontario subsidiary of its intent to purchase the holder's partnership units in accordance with the terms of the joint venture's partnership agreement. On November 28, 2011, this purchase was completed for a total purchase price of CN$ 151.7 as outlined in the partnership agreement (CN$147.8 plus certain adjustments relating to cash distribution hold backs made to finance recent business acquisitions and capital expenditures). The purchase of these additional partnership units brings the Company's percentage interest owned to 98.2%.

The contractual value of the remaining noncontrolling interest put totals $20.7 at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, $20.7 and $20.2, respectively, have been classified as mezzanine equity in the Company's consolidated balance sheet.

47

Index

Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled with availability under its Revolving Credit Facility, the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet both its anticipated short-term and long-term cash needs; however, the Company continually reassesses its liquidity position in light of market conditions and other relevant factors.

New Accounting Pronouncements

In June 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on the presentation of comprehensive income. Specifically, this literature requires an entity to present components of net earnings and other comprehensive income in one continuous statement, referred to as the statement of comprehensive income, or in two separate, but consecutive statements. The authoritative guidance eliminates the option to report other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in shareholders' equity. While the authoritative guidance changes the presentation of comprehensive income, there are no changes to the components that are recognized in net earnings or other comprehensive income under current accounting guidance. The Company adopted this guidance during the first quarter of 2012 and elected to present comprehensive income in two separate, but consecutive statements and has applied the new presentation to the prior period presented. The adoption of this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 did not have an impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

In February 2013, the FASB issued an amendment to existing guidance regarding the reporting of amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. The amendment requires an entity to present information about reclassification adjustments from accumulated other comprehensive income in its annual financial statements in a single note or on the face of the financial statements. The amendment is effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012. We do not expect this amendment to have a significant impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. While the Company believes these estimates are reasonable and consistent, they are by their very nature, estimates of amounts that will depend on future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. The Company’s Audit Committee periodically reviews the Company’s significant accounting policies. The Company’s critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following:

•Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts;

•Pension expense;

•Accruals for self insurance reserves;

•Income taxes; and

•Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Assets

Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts

Revenue is recognized for services rendered when the testing process is complete and test results are reported to the ordering physician. The Company’s sales are generally billed to three types of payers – clients, patients and third parties such as managed care companies, Medicare and Medicaid. For clients, sales are recorded on a fee-for-service basis at the Company’s client list price, less any negotiated discount. Patient sales are recorded at the Company’s patient fee schedule, net of any discounts negotiated with physicians on behalf of their patients. The Company bills third-party payers in two ways – fee-for-service and capitated agreements. Fee-for-service third-party payers are billed at the Company's patient fee schedule amount, and third-party revenue is recorded net of contractual discounts. These discounts are recorded at the transaction level at the time of sale based on a fee schedule that is maintained for each third-party payer. The majority of the Company’s third-party sales are recorded using an actual or contracted fee schedule at the time of sale. For the remaining third-party sales, estimated fee schedules are maintained for each payer. Adjustments to the estimated payment amounts are recorded at the time of final collection and settlement of each transaction as an adjustment to revenue. These adjustments are not material to the Company’s results of operations in any period presented. The Company periodically adjusts these estimated fee schedules based upon historical payment trends. Under capitated agreements with managed care companies, the Company recognizes revenue based on a negotiated monthly contractual rate for each member of the managed care plan regardless of the number or cost of services performed.

The Company has a formal process to estimate and review the collectibility of its receivables based on the period of time they have been outstanding. Bad debt expense is recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales considered necessary to maintain the allowance for doubtful accounts at an appropriate level. The Company’s process for 

48

Index

determining the appropriate level of the allowance for doubtful accounts involves judgment, and considers such factors as the age of the underlying receivables, historical and projected collection experience, and other external factors that could affect the collectibility of its receivables. Accounts are written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the Company’s write-off policy (e.g., when they are deemed to be uncollectible). In the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance, accounts are progressively reserved based on the historical timing of cash collections relative to their respective aging categories within the Company’s receivables. These collection and reserve processes, along with the close monitoring of the billing process, help reduce the risks of material revisions to reserve estimates resulting from adverse changes in collection or reimbursement experience.

The following table presents the percentage of the Company’s net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category at December 31, 2012 and 2011:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The above table excludes the percentage of net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category for the Ontario subsidiary, Clearstone and Orchid. The Company believes that including the agings for these foreign operations would not be representative of the majority of the accounts receivable by aging category for the Company.

Pension Expense

In October 2009, the Company received approval from its Board of Directors to freeze any additional service-based credits for any years of service after December 31, 2009 on the Company Plan and the PEP. Both plans have been closed to new participants. Employees participating in the Company Plan and the PEP no longer earn service-based credits, but continue to earn interest credits. In addition, effective January 1, 2010, all employees eligible for the defined contribution retirement plan (the “401K Plan”) receive a minimum 3% non-elective contribution (“NEC”) concurrent with each payroll period. The 401K Plan also permits discretionary contributions by the Company of 1% to 3% of pay for eligible employees based on service.

The Company Plan covers substantially all employees hired prior to December 31, 2009. The benefits to be paid under the Company Plan are based on years of credited service through December 31, 2009, interest credits and average compensation. The Company also has the PEP which covers its senior management group. Prior to 2010, the PEP provided for the payment of the difference, if any, between the amount of any maximum limitation on annual benefit payments under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and the annual benefit that would be payable under the Company Plan but for such limitation.

The Company's net pension cost is developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis at the beginning of each year. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. The key assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit retirement plans were a 3.95% discount rate and a 7.0% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets as of December 31, 2012.

Discount Rate

The Company evaluates several approaches toward setting the discount rate assumption that is used to value the benefit obligations of its retirement plans. At year-end, priority was given to use of the Towers Watson Bond:Link model, which simulates the purchase of investment-grade corporate bonds at current market yields with principal amounts and maturity dates closely matching the Company's projected cash disbursements from its plans. This completed model represents the yields to maturity that the Company could theoretically settle its plan obligations at year end. The weighted-average yield on the modeled bond portfolio 

49

Index

is then used to form the discount rate assumption used for each retirement plan. A one percentage point decrease or increase in the discount rate would have resulted in a respective increase or decrease in 2012 retirement plan expense of $2.7.

Return on Plan Assets

In establishing its expected return on plan assets assumption, the Company reviews its asset allocation and develops return assumptions based on different asset classes adjusting for plan operating expenses. Actual asset over/under performance compared to expected returns will respectively decrease/increase unrecognized loss. The change in the unrecognized loss will change amortization cost in upcoming periods. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have resulted in a corresponding change in 2012 pension expense of $2.4.

Net pension cost for 2012 was $12.1 as compared with $8.6 in 2011 and $9.6 in 2010. The increase in pension expense in 2012 was due to increases in the amount of net amortization and deferral as a result of lower discount rates and a 25 basis points decrease in the expected return on assets as a result of declines in asset market values in 2011. Projected pension expense for the Company Plan and the PEP is expected to remain at $12.1 in 2013.

Further information on the Company’s defined benefit retirement plan is provided in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

Accruals for Self-insurance Reserves

Accruals for self-insurance reserves (including workers’ compensation, auto and employee medical) are determined based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical payment trends and claims history, actuarial assumptions and current and estimated future economic conditions. These estimated liabilities are not discounted.

 The Company is self-insured (up to certain limits) for professional liability claims arising in the normal course of business, generally related to the testing and reporting of laboratory test results. The Company maintains excess insurance which limits the Company’s maximum exposure on individual claims. The Company estimates a liability that represents the ultimate exposure for aggregate losses below those limits. The liability is discounted and is based on actuarial assumptions and factors for known and incurred but not reported claims, including the frequency and payment trends of historical claims.

If actual trends differ from these estimates, the financial results could be impacted. Historical trends have not differed materially from these estimates.

 Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability method. Under this method deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company does not recognize a tax benefit, unless the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, the Company recognizes a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that the Company believes is greater than 50% likely to be realized. The Company records interest and penalties in income tax expense.

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Assets

The Company assesses goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment at least annually and more frequently if triggering events occur. The timing of the Company's annual impairment testing is the end of the fiscal year. Step One of the impairment test includes the estimation of the fair value of the reporting unit as compared to the book value of the reporting unit. If Step One indicates potential impairment, the second step is performed to measure the amount of the impairment. The Company relies on a number of factors to determine fair value such as publicly available information regarding the market capitalization of the Company as well as operating results, business plans, and present value techniques. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors, and judgment in applying them. The assumptions underlying the impairment analysis may change in such a manner that impairment in value may occur in the future. Such impairment will be recognized in the period in which it becomes known.

50

Index

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

The Company has made in this report, and from time to time may otherwise make in its public filings, press releases and discussions by Company management, forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “seeks”, “approximately”, “intends”, “plans”, “estimates”, or “anticipates” or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and in the Company’s other public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, including:

1. changes in federal, state, local and third party payer regulations or policies or other future reforms in the health care system (or in the interpretation of current regulations), new insurance or payment systems, including state or regional insurance cooperatives (Health Insurance Exchanges), new public insurance programs or a single-payer system, affecting governmental and third-party coverage or reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing;

2. adverse results from investigations or audits of clinical laboratories by the government, which may include significant monetary damages, refunds and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs; 

3. loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or those of Medicare, Medicaid, the False Claims Act or other federal, state or local agencies;

4. failure to comply with the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, which may result in penalties and loss of licensure;

5. failure to comply with HIPAA, including changes to federal and state privacy and security obligations and changes to HIPAA, including those changes included within HITECH and any subsequent amendments, which could result in increased costs, denial of claims and/or significant penalties;

6. failure to maintain the security of business information or systems could damage the Company's reputation, cause it to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation;

7. failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to comply with the ICD-10-CM Code Set by the compliance date of October 1, 2014, could negatively impact the Company's reimbursement, cash collections, DSO and profitability;

8. increased competition, including competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry;

9. increased price competition, competitive bidding for laboratory tests and/or changes or reductions to fee schedules;

10. changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms or the impact of a shift to consumer-driven health plans;

11. failure to obtain and retain new customers or a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers;

12. failure to retain or attract managed care business as a result of changes in business models, including new risk based or network approaches, or other changes in strategy or business models by managed care companies;

13. failure to effectively integrate and/or manage newly acquired businesses and the cost related to such integrations;

14. adverse results in litigation matters;

15. inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;

16. business interruption, increased costs, and other adverse effects on the Company's operations due to the unionization of employees, union strikes, work stoppages, or general labor unrest;

17. failure to maintain the Company's days sales outstanding and/or bad debt expense levels;

18. decrease in the Company's credit ratings by Standard & Poor's and/or Moody's;

19. discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products;

20. failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved technologies, or if customers use new technologies to perform their own tests;

51

Index

21. inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate coverage or reimbursement for such tests, which could result in impairment in the value of certain capitalized licensing costs;

22. failure to identify and successfully close and integrate strategic acquisition targets;

23. changes in government regulations or policies, including regulations and policies of the Food and Drug Administration, affecting the approval, availability of, and the selling and marketing of diagnostic tests;

24. inability to obtain and maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights for protection of the Company's products and services and successfully enforce the Company's proprietary rights;

25. the scope, validity and enforceability of patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties which might have an impact on the Company's ability to develop, perform, or market the Company's tests or operate its business;

26. failure in the Company's information technology systems resulting in an increase in testing turnaround time or billing processes or the failure to meet future regulatory or customer information technology, data security and connectivity requirements;

27. failure of the Company's financial information systems resulting in failure to meet required financial reporting deadlines;

28. failure of the Company's disaster recovery plans to provide adequate protection against the interruption of business and/or to permit the recovery of business operations;

29. business interruption or other impact on the business due to adverse weather (including hurricanes), fires and/or other natural disasters, terrorism or other criminal acts, and/or widespread outbreak of influenza or other pandemic illness;

30. liabilities that result from the inability to comply with corporate governance requirements;

31. significant deterioration in the economy or financial markets which could negatively impact the Company's testing volumes, cash collections and the availability of credit for general liquidity or other financing needs;

32. changes in reimbursement by foreign governments and foreign currency fluctuations; and

33. expenses and risks associated with international operations, including but not limited to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as laws and regulations that differ from those of the United States, and economic, political, legal and other operational risks associated with foreign markets.

Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK