Item 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company addresses its exposure to market risks, principally the market risk associated with changes in interest rates, through a controlled program of risk management that includes, from time to time, the use of derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swap agreements. Although, as set forth below, the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes contain features that are considered to be embedded derivative instruments, the Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. The Company does not believe that its exposure to market risk is material to the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

The Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes contain the following two features that are considered to be embedded derivative instruments under authoritative guidance in connection with accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities:

1)The Company will pay contingent cash interest on the zero-coupon subordinated notes after September 11, 2006, if the average market price of the notes equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price, accrued original issue discount and contingent additional principal, if any, for a specified measurement period.

2)Holders may surrender zero-coupon subordinated notes for conversion during any period in which the rating assigned to the zero-coupon subordinated notes by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services is BB- or lower.

Borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facility are subject to variable interest rates, unless fixed through interest rate swaps or other agreements.

The Company’s Ontario, Canada consolidated joint venture operates in Canada and, accordingly, the earnings and cash flows generated from the Ontario operations are subject to foreign currency exchange risk.

The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Clearstone Central Laboratories, has operations in China and Singapore, and, accordingly the earnings and cash flows generated from these operations are subject to foreign currency risk.

52

Index

The Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Orchid, has operations in the United Kingdom and, accordingly the earnings and cash flows generated from Orchid's United Kingdom operation are subject to foreign currency risk.

The Alberta, Canada joint venture partnership operates in Canada and remits the Company’s share of partnership income in Canadian dollars. Accordingly, the cash flow received from this affiliate is subject to foreign currency exchange risk.

Item 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA