Part I 

Item 1 - Business 

General Information 

Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe’s) is a Fortune® 50 company and the world’s second largest home improvement retailer. As of February 3, 2012, we operated 1,745 stores, comprised of 1,712 stores across 50 U.S. states, 31 stores in Canada and two stores in Mexico. Our 1,745 stores represent approximately 197 million square feet of retail selling space. 

We opened 25 stores in fiscal 2011, which included the relocation of two existing stores. Seven of the stores were opened in Canada. In fiscal 2011, we closed 27 stores in the U.S. We expect to open approximately 10 stores in fiscal 2012. We are flexible in the size of store we open as we strive to maximize our return on investment by considering market demographics and land availability, among other factors, to determine the appropriate size for each particular market.  

During 2009, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Australian retailer Woolworths Limited, to develop a chain of home improvement stores in Australia. We are a one-third owner of the joint venture. The venture opened its first seven stores under the name Masters™ in 2011, and expects to open 15 to 20 stores in 2012. 

Lowe’s was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since 1961. The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol “LOW.” 

See Item 6, “Selected Financial Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for historical revenues, profits and identifiable assets. For additional information about the Company’s performance and financial condition, see also Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our Promise 

We strive to be customers’ first choice for home improvement. Customers expect that we will not only sell the products they need and want, but also deliver a full solution by being a partner through each step of the home improvement process, from inspiration and planning to completion and enjoyment. Our goal is to execute better than our competitors, and make the process of home improvement as seamless and simple as possible for customers. At the core of this goal are three principles: possibilities, support and value. Possibilities means providing customers with inspiration and ideas for enhancing and maintaining their homes through innovative solutions. Support means being a trusted partner and resource whenever and wherever customers need us in the home improvement process. Value means offering competitive prices plus helping customers successfully accomplish their home improvement goals. 

Customers, Market and Competition 

Our Customers 

We serve homeowners, renters and commercial business customers. Individual homeowners and renters complete a wide array of projects and vary along the spectrum of do-it-yourself (DIY) and do-it-for-me (DIFM). Commercial business customers include those who work in construction, repair/remodel, commercial and residential property management, or business maintenance professions. 

Based on our analysis of the market we have identified various types of home improvement customers. Our target customer is the “creator”, whether they are a homeowner, renter, or commercial business customer. The creator is the most active in the home improvement category in terms of visits and amount of spend. Creators seek quality tailored experiences, and are on the lookout for new ideas to improve homes. We believe that if we focus on the needs of these more discerning customers we will meet or exceed the needs of other customers. 

4 

Our Market 

We are among the many businesses, including home centers, paint stores, hardware stores, lumber yards and garden centers, whose revenues are included in the Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers Subsector (444) of the Retail Trade Sector of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), the standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy. The total annual revenue reported for businesses included in NAICS Subsector 444 in 2011 was $300 billion, which represented an increase of 5.7% from the total amount reported in 2010. The total annual revenue reported for businesses included in NAICS Subsector 444 in 2010 was $284 billion, which represented an increase of 5.9% over the amount reported for 2009. NAICS Subsector 444 represents approximately half of what we consider the total market for our products and services. 

There are many variables that impact consumer demand for the home improvement products and services we offer. Key indicators we monitor include employment, home prices, real disposable personal income, housing turnover, and home ownership levels. We also monitor demographic and societal trends that are indicators of home improvement industry growth.  

  ·    The forecasted average unemployment rate of 8.2% for 2012 from the March 2012 Blue Chip Economic Indicators™ is lower than the 9.0% average seen in 2011, but suggests nonetheless that Americans will continue to face challenging employment prospects this year.    

  ·    Home prices temporarily stabilized in late 2009 after falling nearly 25% from peak levels in 2005, according to data from the National Association of Realtors® and Moody’s Analytics. Home prices temporarily improved in early 2010 and remained relatively stable for the year, supported by the federal home-buyer tax credit and voluntary foreclosure moratoria instituted by several large mortgage loan service providers. However, in 2011 home prices fell about 4.0% nationally, primarily weighed down by sales of distressed properties. Economists generally expect home prices to decline another 1% to 3% during 2012 as foreclosure activity further accelerates.    

  ·    Although growth in real disposable personal income continues to improve, it is projected to grow at a slower pace for 2012 than the long-term average annual increase of 3.3% during the period from 1960 to 2010. Real disposable personal income growth is forecasted to be 1.5% for calendar 2012, compared with 1.3% for calendar 2011, based on data from the March 2012 Blue Chip Economic Indicators™.    

  ·    Housing turnover, which peaked in calendar year 2005, remains significantly below peak levels according to The National Association of Realtors. However, recent data suggests that housing turnover in 2012 will increase over 2011.    

  ·    According to the U.S. Census Bureau, while U.S. home ownership levels over the past year have continued their decline, from 66.5% in the fourth quarter of 2010 to 66.0% in the fourth quarter of 2011, they remain above their historical average.     

These indicators are important to our business because they impact income available to purchase our products and services, or otherwise provide an established customer base for home maintenance and repair projects. Currently, these indicators suggest moderately improving consumer demand for the home improvement products and services we sell. However, in this uncertain economic environment, we continue to balance implementation of our long-term growth plans with our near-term focus on improving performance and maintaining adequate liquidity. 

Our Competition 

The home improvement retailing business includes many competitors. We compete with other home improvement warehouse chains and lumberyards in most of our trade areas. We also compete with traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply retailers. In addition, we compete, with respect to some of our products, with general merchandise retailers, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, online and other specialty retailers. Our target customers value 

5 

reputation, customer experience, quality and price of merchandise, and range and availability of products and services. Location of stores also continues to be a key competitive factor in our industry. However, the increasing use of technology and the simplicity of online shopping also underline the importance of multi-channel presence as a competitive factor. See further discussion of competition in Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Products and Services 

Our Products 

Product Selection 

To meet customers’ varying home improvement needs, we offer a complete line of products for maintenance, repair, remodeling, and home decorating. We offer home improvement products in the following categories: Appliances, Lawn & Landscape, Fashion Electrical, Lumber, Building Materials, Paint, Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning, Rough Plumbing, Flooring, Tools, Seasonal Living, Millwork, Hardware, Fashion Plumbing, Nursery and Cabinets & Countertops. A typical Lowe's store stocks approximately 40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available through our Special Order Sales system and Lowes.com. In 2011, Lowe’s implemented flexible fulfillment, which allows the customer to order products that can be shipped parcel post and that are stocked in an RDC, a store, or in a vendor's distribution center, and have them shipped directly to a home or place of business. Most items can be ordered and delivered within two days. See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years. 

We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand name merchandise, as well as building long-term value for Lowe’s through the development of private brands. 

National Brand Name Merchandise 

In many product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill confidence in their purchase. Each Lowe’s store carries a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise such as Whirlpool® appliances and water heaters, GE® and Samsung® appliances, Stainmaster® carpets, Valspar® paints and stains, Pella® windows and doors, Sylvania® light bulbs, Dewalt® power tools, Owens Corning® roofing, Johns Manville® insulation, James Hardie® fiber cement siding and many more. Our merchandise selection provides the DIY, DIFM and commercial business customer a one-stop shop for a wide variety of national brand name merchandise needed to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance or construction projects. 

Private Brands 

Private brands are an important element of our overall portfolio, helping to differentiate us from the competition with unique innovations and designs. Private brands also provide a value alternative to national brands and, in categories where there are no strong national brands, can be used to give the customer a more simplified shopping experience. We sell private brands throughout our stores including Tools, Seasonal Living, Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning, Paint, Fashion Plumbing, Flooring, Millwork, Hardware, Fashion Electrical and Lumber. Some of Lowe’s most important private brands include Kobalt® tools, allen+roth® home décor products, Blue Hawk® home improvement products, Project Source® everyday essentials, Portfolio® lighting products, Garden Treasures® lawn and patio products, Utilitech® electrical and utility products, Reliabilt® doors and windows, Aquasource® faucets, sinks and toilets, Harbor Breeze® ceiling fans, Top Choice® lumber products and Iris® home automation and management products. 

Supply Chain 

We source our products from over 7,000 vendors worldwide with no single vendor accounting for more than 7% of total purchases. We believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products. Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for customers and improve our gross margin. 

To efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate 14 highly-automated regional distribution centers (RDCs) in the United States, with a fifteenth RDC under construction. On average, each domestic RDC serves approximately 120 stores. In addition, we lease and operate a distribution facility to serve our Canadian stores. 

6 

We also operate 15 flatbed distribution centers to distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, irrigation pipe, vinyl siding, ladders and building materials. Additionally, we operate four facilities to support our import business and flexible fulfillment capabilities. We also utilize three third-party transload facilities, which are the first point of receipt for imported products. The transload facilities sort and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and forecasts. 

On average in fiscal 2011, approximately 75% of the total dollar amount of stock merchandise we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to our stores from vendors. 

Our Services 

Installed Sales 

We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with Flooring, Millwork and Cabinets & Countertops accounting for the majority of sales. Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to maintain their focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products are efficiently executed. Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 6% of total sales in fiscal 2011. 

Extended Protection Plans and Repair Services 

We offer extended protection plans on appliances, tools and outdoor power equipment. Lowe’s extended protection plans provide customers with product protection that enhances or extends the manufacturer’s warranty. We provide in warranty and out of warranty repair services for major appliances, outdoor power equipment and tools through our stores or in the home through our Lowe’s Authorized Service Repair Network. Our contact center takes the calls, diagnoses the problems, and facilitates the resolutions making after-sales service simpler for customers because we manage the entire process. 

Credit Financing 

We offer a proprietary consumer credit card for retail customers under an agreement with GE Money Bank. This program provides Lowe's consumer credit cardholders with 5% off everyday purchases. For purchases above $299 customers have their choice of no-interest financing or the 5% off value. 

We also offer proprietary credit programs for commercial business customers. They include a Lowe’s Business Account, which is ideal for small- to medium-size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe’s Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium- to large-size businesses that pay in full each month. These programs provide a 5% discount to commercial business customers when they use their Lowe’s commercial credit account. We also offer the Lowe’s Business Rewards Card from American Express®. 

For additional information regarding our credit programs, see the summary of our significant accounting policies in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Mylowes 

In 2011, we introduced mylowes, a new online tool that is unique in the home improvement industry and makes managing, maintaining and improving homes simpler and more intuitive. Using the capabilities provided by mylowes, customers can create home profiles, save room dimensions and paint colors, organize owners' manuals and product warranties, create shopping, to-do and wish lists for projects on the horizon, set recurring reminders for common maintenance items and store purchase history from across all Lowe's channels through the use of mylowes. 

Selling Channels 

We have multiple channels through which we engage customers and sell our products and services, including in-store, online, on-site and contact centers. Although we sell through all of these channels, our primary channel to fulfill customer orders continues to be our retail home improvement stores. Regardless of the channel through which customers choose to engage with us, we will provide them with a seamless experience and an endless aisle of products, enabled by our flexible fulfillment capabilities. 

7 

In-Store 

Our 1,745 retail home improvement stores are generally open seven days per week and average approximately 113,000 square feet of retail selling space, plus approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling space. Our stores offer similar products and services, with certain variations based on local market factors. We continue to develop and implement tools to make our sales associates more efficient and to integrate our order management and fulfillment processes. Our stores now have Wi-Fi capabilities that provide customers with access to Lowes.com and related mobile applications, making information available quickly, to further simplify the shopping experience. 

Online 

Through Lowes.com, we seek to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience and helping reduce the complexity of product decisions and home improvement projects by providing online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online buying guides and how-to videos and information. These tools help consumers make more informed purchasing decisions and give them confidence as they undertake simple to more complex home improvement projects. We also enable customers to choose from a variety of fulfillment options, including buying online and picking up in-store as well as parcel shipment to their homes. In 2011, we introduced a mobile application for customers on the Apple iPhone®. We also introduced a mobile application for our Creative Ideas publication, which provides inspirational home improvement ideas. In 2011, Lowes.com accounted for approximately 1% of our total sales. 

On-Site 

We have on-site specialists available to retail customers and commercial business customers to assist them in selecting products and services for their projects. Commercial account specialists meet with commercial business customers in their place of business or on a job site and leverage stores within the area to ensure we meet customer needs for products and resources. Our Project Specialist Exteriors (PSE) program is available in most Lowe’s stores to discuss projects such as roofing, siding, fencing and windows, whose characteristics lend themselves to an in-home consultative sales approach. PSEs take the measurements and tender the sale in the customer's home. 

Contact Centers 

Located in Wilkesboro, NC, and Albuquerque, NM, the Lowe's contact centers provide direct support to customers who contact Lowe’s via phone, e-mail or letter, including tendering sales. They also provide store support, online sales support and facilitate repair services. 

Employees 

As of February 3, 2012, we employed approximately 161,000 full-time and 87,000 part-time employees. No employees in the U.S. or Canada are covered by collective bargaining agreements. All employees in Mexico are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with employees to be good. 

Seasonality and Working Capital 

The retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business is, to some extent, seasonal. Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our second fiscal quarter (May, June and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fourth fiscal quarter (November, December and January). Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fourth fiscal quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fourth fiscal quarter sales volumes. We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, as needed. For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Intellectual Property 

The name “Lowe’s” is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary has various additional trademarks, trade names and service marks, most of which are used in our private brand program. 

8 

Environmental Leadership 

We continue to build on a history of environmental leadership by helping consumers reduce their energy and water use and their environmental footprint while saving money through a growing number of product and service solutions. We offer a wide selection of environmentally responsible and energy-efficient products for the home, including ENERGY STAR® appliances, WaterSense® labeled toilets, paint with no volatile organic compounds (VOC), indoor and outdoor LED lighting, the GE GeoSpring® hybrid water heater, and in certain states, GE electric car charging stations. Additionally, we offer in-store customer recycling for plastic bags, CFL light bulbs and rechargeable batteries.  

Our role in helping consumers with their conservation was recognized by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) with our second consecutive ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Award in Retail (2010-2011), which recognizes our long-standing leadership as a retailer of energy-efficient products, as well as nine consecutive ENERGY STAR awards (2003-2011), including four ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year awards for educating consumers about the benefits of energy efficiency. We were also recognized by the EPA WaterSense program with our third consecutive Retail Partner of the Year award. 

Lowe’s also recognizes how efficient operations can help protect the environment and our bottom line. We examine our own operations to deliver efficiencies in energy use, water consumption and waste & recycling. We annually track our carbon footprint and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent not-for-profit organization holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. In an effort to mitigate the impact of our energy use, we also purchase Renewable Energy Certificates (REC) equal to 3% of our energy use, and are recognized as the sixth largest retail purchaser of green power in the EPA’s Green Power Partnership program. To further reduce our footprint, we design energy-efficient features into new stores and during retrofits of existing stores. These features include energy efficient lighting, white membrane cool roofs and HVAC units that meet or exceed ENERGY STAR qualifications. 

We also strive to get products to our stores in an environmentally responsible manner. We achieve that through involvement in the SmartWay® Transport Partnership, an innovative program launched by the U.S. EPA in 2004 that promotes environmentally cleaner, more fuel efficient transportation options. Our latest recognition came in 2011 when we earned the 2011 SmartWay Team Champion. This award was based on initiatives that resulted in reduced carbon dioxide emissions and less overall highway congestion. These included increasing shipping by rail, increasing efficiency of truckload shipments, allowing more products to be shipped on fewer trailers, and continuing to use a higher percentage of SmartWay carriers. 

For more information on Lowe’s environmental leadership efforts, please refer to: http://www.lowescreativeideas.com/social/environment-our-mission.html 

Compliance with Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. They have in the past and may in the future increase our costs of doing business in a variety of ways, including indirectly through increased energy costs as producers of energy and petroleum, and potentially other major emitters of greenhouse gases, are subjected to increased or new regulation or legislation that results in greater regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2012 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with such laws or regulations. 

Reaching Out 

Lowe’s has a long and proud history of supporting local communities through public education and community improvement projects. In 2011, Lowe's and Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF) contributed more than $32 million to schools and community organizations in the United States, Canada and Mexico. LCEF was created in 1957 to assist communities through financial contributions while also encouraging employees to become involved through volunteerism. In 2011, Lowe’s and LCEF supported more than 4,000 community and education projects. LCEF funds our signature education grant program, Lowe’s Toolbox for Education®, and national partnerships. Lowe’s Toolbox for 

9 

Table of Contents 

Education grants totaling more than $30 million have benefited approximately 3.5 million schoolchildren since 2006. Lowe’s has worked with Habitat for Humanity® since 2003 to combat substandard housing. Our commitment through 2013 will bring Lowe's Habitat contributions to nearly $40 million since the partnership began. We also partner with customers to support the American Red Cross, contributing more than $22 million since 1999. Lowe’s encourages employee volunteerism through the Lowe’s Heroes program, a companywide initiative. Lowe's Heroes participated in more than 1,400 projects across North America in 2011. For more information on our community involvement, please see the Lowe’s Social Responsibility Report at Lowes.com/SocialResponsibility. 

Available Information 

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our internet website at www.Lowes.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may also read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 

Item 1A - Risk Factors