Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting our consolidated operating results, financial condition, liquidity and capital resources during the three-year period ended February 3, 2012 (our fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009). Fiscal year 2011 contains 53 weeks of operating results compared to fiscal years 2010 and 2009 which contain 52 weeks. Unless otherwise noted, all references herein for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009 represent the fiscal years ended February 3, 2012, January 28, 2011 and January 29, 2010, respectively. We intend for this discussion to provide the reader with information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles affect our financial statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. This discussion and analysis is presented in seven sections: 

  ·    Executive Overview    

  ·    Operations    

  ·    Lowe’s Business Outlook    

  ·    Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources    

  ·    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    

  ·    Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments    

  ·    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates    

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW 

During 2011 we made progress towards delivering better customer experiences and transforming our business to drive long-term sales growth, increased profitability and increased shareholder value. We operate in an increasingly socially-connected world with real-time expectations and a wide range of customer service and selling channels. Our goal is to be relevant at each step of the home improvement process and to deliver an experience that is both seamless and simple. Rather than be a home improvement retailer focused on store expansion as the engine for growth, we will be a home improvement company focused on maximizing asset productivity in order to grow. 

Building the Foundation 

Recognizing the need to adapt to this increasingly connected environment, we made a series of important decisions during 2011. These decisions included investments to position us for improved execution today, while enabling the customer experiences that will carry us into the future. First, we implemented changes to our management structure, including the makeup of our senior executive team. We also rationalized our existing and future store investments and accelerated significant upgrades to our information technology (IT) infrastructure. 

Understanding the importance of responding quickly to the needs of the market, we reorganized our field-based store operations and human resources organizations during 2011, reducing the field structure from 188 districts to 132 markets. This followed our decision in late 2010 to modify a portion of our mid-level store management structure from a tiered structure into a single-level assistant store manager position. As a result, we are able to better coordinate our business and to push down the appropriate level of decision making and accountability to the working teams. 

In addition to changes in management structure, we performed a comprehensive review of our existing stores and our pipeline of proposed new stores during 2011 in an effort to focus resources in a manner that will generate the greatest shareholder value. As a result, we closed 27 underperforming stores in the second half of the year and discontinued a number of planned new store projects. As part of the reassessment we also revised our future store expansion plan in North America and expect to open approximately 10 stores in 2012, and approximately 15 stores per year thereafter. This represents a 50% reduction in our previous expansion plan. 

19 

In 2011, we also accelerated our investments in IT and store systems infrastructure and increased our efforts to improve the customer experience. We undertook our largest, single-year investment in IT and store systems infrastructure to eliminate problems with slow response times, hard-to-use systems, and lack of access to necessary technology. This included upgrades to store IT bandwidth and the installation of in-store wireless networks to handle video downloads and provide customer access to Wi-Fi. In addition, we enhanced existing store functionality with iPhones to provide store employees with better tools to assist the customer anywhere in the store. These efforts contributed to the company’s total investments in IT infrastructure of $841 million in 2011. 

In 2012, we will continue to evaluate our corporate infrastructure, which was built to support a single-channel business that was opening over 100 stores per year. Today we are growing differently and our seamless multi-channel strategy requires a different infrastructure. In the first few weeks of 2012, we announced a planned reduction in the size of the staff at our U.S. headquarters through a voluntary separation program. In addition, we are also working to change our culture to enable our teams to move faster on calculated risks in order to improve our execution and to support changing customer expectations. We are refining our test-and-learn capabilities to more quickly and cost-effectively test new ideas before implementing changes company-wide. 

Our Promise for the Future 

Our promise continues to focus on three themes: possibilities regarding home improvement solutions, support and advice along the way, and providing value beyond price. Keeping this promise requires us to maintain our commitment to retail excellence, develop capabilities to provide seamless support across channels and projects, and simplify the home improvement experience. 

Retail excellence 

In order to maintain our retail excellence, our near-term focus is on value improvement and product differentiation, both of which will drive greater asset productivity. Our goal is to be the most efficient retailer our vendors do business with, and we are working with them in a collaborative manner to identify costs that do not add value. By eliminating these costs we are able to provide customers with the most competitively-priced products every day across the multiple channels that they shop, driving increases in sales and gross margin. 

Value improvement is built on a foundation of every-day low cost and tailored market assorting to ensure that we have the right product, in the right market, in the right quantity at the right price. This will ensure that we are getting the lowest inventory acquisition cost and rationalizing the use of promotions, which will allow us to provide low every-day retail prices. Every-day low prices result in more steady demand, eliminating the peaks and valleys associated with promotions which will make us and our vendors more efficient. During 2011, we also began implementing our Integrated Planning & Execution (IP&E) tools, which ensure that our product assortments are locally customized and supported by the right level of inventory per store to produce better productivity for high turning products. Our market analysis teams work closely with merchants as they use the IP&E tools to create the most efficient and effective product lines in each local market, improving our relevance to the customer. This process creates greater depth of in-stock, high-turning items, and reduces the breadth of items with lower turns. 

Product differentiation will establish Lowe’s as the place to find the newest and most relevant products for home improvement and involves refreshing displays in our stores, while at the same time, expanding our online product assortments beyond what we stock in our stores to meet the demands of customers. Through our test and learn approach, we have rolled out a new store layout to approximately 500 stores using interactive endcaps that leverage innovative technology and consistent presentation to inspire our customers to attempt new and exciting projects they may not have otherwise considered. In addition, we lowered or completely removed racking in key areas of the store to better display our products and to make them more accessible and visible to customers. As we test new concepts we will integrate those that work best into the store layout as we expand it to approximately 900 additional stores in 2012. We are creating a better shopping experience to deliver a compelling message of value and simplicity that will result in increased comparable store sales. 

Seamless across channels 

Recognizing that customers increasingly shop across channels, we are focused on providing a seamless multi-channel experience making it convenient for them to engage with us wherever and whenever they choose. Over the past year we 

20 

have made additions and enhancements to enable the seamless experience, including interactions with our contact centers, our exterior sales programs, our website and our mobile applications. We equipped our contact center associates with better tools and greater access to information as well as the ability to close a sale. We continued to evolve our on-site selling model providing specialists with the appropriate tools to help customers visualize a project, provide a real-time quote and tender a sale on site. We also made incremental improvements to our online platform and by the end of the year there were over 250,000 items available through our website and our top-rated mobile application, which launched this past August. Together these improvements contributed to a 22% increase in customer traffic and a 35% increase in conversion rates, resulting in a 70% increase in online sales year-over-year, and a 100 basis point increase in online unit share. In addition, we now offer preprinted return labels for parcel shipments free of charge, a simple and convenient option for customers and a competitive advantage in the home improvement industry. Furthermore, in December we announced the acquisition of ATG Stores, an online retailer of home improvement and lifestyle products, which will allow us to more than double the number of items available through Lowes.com in 2012. 

In addition to creating a more seamless experience for customers, we also invested in technology to ensure that customers have access to an even wider range of products beyond our stores via Lowes.com through the rollout of our flexible fulfillment process. Flexible fulfillment allows any product that can be shipped parcel post and that is stocked in a regional distribution center, store or vendor's distribution center to be ordered online and shipped directly to a customer’s home or place of business. In fiscal 2011, we fulfilled more than 275,000 orders using our flexible fulfillment capabilities. These are incremental transactions on products that were previously unavailable to customers online. We continue to expand our flexible fulfillment capabilities, and in 2012 will have the capability to fulfill any order from the most efficient location, including our stores. 

Simple through knowledge and support 

In 2011, we launched mylowes, an online tool that is unique in the home improvement industry and makes managing, maintaining and improving homes simpler and more intuitive than ever before. mylowes provides customers with a wide range of abilities to create home profiles, save room dimensions and paint colors, organize owner’s manuals and product warranties, create shopping lists and set recurring reminders for common maintenance items. As of the end of the year we had nearly three million customers activate mylowes cards. In addition, approximately 20% of mylowes members are either new customers or customers who haven't shopped at Lowe's in over a year. We expect mylowes to enable us to better serve our existing customer base and attract new customers. 

In addition, we have improved service in the aisles by equipping store employees with iPhones and the necessary applications to give them immediate access to products and available quantities beyond the limits of the store's physical inventory. No longer do store employees have to leave customers in the aisle to access a fixed terminal. iPhones give employees quick access to detailed information about products that customers are interested in and further supplements both the employee's existing knowledge and point of purchase materials we provide. We have already seen a positive impact on the time it takes to serve customers, as well as the number of customers we are able to serve. 

To leverage our employees’ knowledge, we launched Connections, an online employee social business network that gives them the ability to easily share information at anytime. Employees have access to Connections directly from the sales floor, thereby increasing their breadth of knowledge and improving the customer experience. 

All of the enhancements we made in 2011 are building momentum in developing deeper relationships with our customers that we believe will enable us to close more sales and improve profitability in 2012 and beyond. 

21 

OPERATIONS 

The following tables set forth the percentage relationship to net sales of each line item of the consolidated statements of earnings, as well as the percentage change in dollar amounts from the prior year. This table should be read in conjunction with the following discussion and analysis and the consolidated financial statements, including the related notes to the consolidated financial statements. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

22 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 The fiscal year ended February 3, 2012 had 53 weeks. The fiscal years ended January 28, 2011 and January 29, 2010 had 52 weeks. 

2 EBIT margin, also referred to as operating margin, is defined as earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales. 

3 A comparable store is defined as a store that has been open longer than 13 months. A store that is identified for relocation is no longer considered comparable one month prior to its relocation. The relocated store must then remain open longer than 13 months to be considered comparable. A store we have decided to close is no longer considered comparable as of the beginning of the month in which we announce its closing. The comparable store sales increase for 2011 included in the preceding table was calculated using sales for a comparable 53-week period. 

4 Average ticket is defined as net sales divided by the total number of customer transactions. 

5 Average store size selling square feet is defined as sales floor square feet divided by the number of stores open at the end of the period. 

6 Return on average assets is defined as net earnings divided by average total assets for the last five quarters. 

7 Return on average shareholders’ equity is defined as net earnings divided by average shareholders’ equity for the last five quarters. 

8 Return on invested capital is a non-GAAP measure. See below for additional information. 

Return on Invested Capital 

Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe ROIC is a meaningful metric for investors because it measures how effectively the Company uses capital to generate profits. 

We define ROIC as trailing four quarters' net operating profit after tax divided by the average of ending debt and equity for the last five quarters. Although ROIC is a common financial metric, numerous methods exist for calculating ROIC. Accordingly, the method used by our management to calculate ROIC may differ from the methods other companies use to calculate their ROIC. We encourage you to understand the methods used by another company to calculate its ROIC before comparing its ROIC to ours. 

We consider return on average debt and equity to be the financial measure computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that is the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to ROIC. The difference between these two measures is that ROIC adjusts net earnings to exclude tax adjusted interest expense. 

The calculation of ROIC, together with a reconciliation to the calculation of return on average debt and equity, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, is as follows: 

23 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 Income tax adjustment is defined as earnings before interest and taxes multiplied by the effective tax rate. 

2 Average debt and equity is defined as average debt, including current maturities and short-term borrowings, plus total equity for the last five quarters. 

Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010 

For the purpose of the following discussion, comparable store sales, comparable store average ticket and comparable store customer transactions are based on comparable 53-week periods. 

Net sales – Net sales increased 2.9% to $50.2 billion in 2011, while comparable store sales were flat. The additional week in 2011 contributed 1.6% to the increase in net sales. Comparable store customer transactions increased approximately 0.4% and comparable store average ticket decreased 0.4% versus 2010. 

While comparable stores sales were flat in 2011, we saw sequential improvement each quarter, with comparable store sales of negative 3.3% in the first quarter, negative 0.3% in the second quarter, positive 0.7% in the third quarter and positive 3.4% in the fourth quarter. Unseasonably cold, wet weather, severe storms and flooding during the first quarter as well as comparisons to the 2010 Cash for Appliances government incentive program led to lower performance during the first half of the year. However, as comparisons to the Cash for Appliances program eased and storm recovery efforts were underway, we saw improvement in comparable store sales. In addition, strong customer response to our 5% off every-day offer to Lowe’s credit cardholders, launched in the first half of 2011, aided comparable store sales for the balance of the year. 

24 

We experienced comparable store sales above the company average in the following product categories during 2011: Building Materials, Rough Plumbing, Tools, Fashion Electrical, Paint and Hardware. In addition, Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning, Seasonal Living, Flooring, Nursery and Lumber performed at approximately the overall company average. Although unfavorable weather in the early part of the year negatively impacted outdoor categories such as Building Materials, recovery efforts after severe spring storms that hit many regions of the country and hurricane Irene positively impacted comparable store sales in Building Materials, with particularly strong sales of roofing products and installation services. Rough Plumbing also benefited from the wet weather and storm recovery efforts, with strong sales of pumps & tanks and dehumidifiers. In addition, Tools experienced favorable comparable store sales primarily driven by holiday promotions and strong customer response to new products, such as our new line of Kobalt mechanics tools. Fashion Electrical also performed above the company average during 2011, driven by increased customer demand for energy-saving light bulbs, outdoor lighting and electrical cable. 

However, difficult comparisons to prior year energy tax credits negatively impacted comparable store sales in Millwork. In addition, while we experienced strong market share gains in Cabinets & Countertops, they were not enough to offset the impact of the contracting market, leading to comparable store sales below the company average for the year. Appliances also experienced negative comparable store sales for the year driven by comparisons to the prior year Cash for Appliances program, which primarily impacted the first half of the year. 

Gross margin – Gross margin of 34.56% for 2011 represented a 58 basis point decrease from 2010, primarily driven by margin rate. Strong customer response to our 5% off every-day offer to Lowe’s credit cardholders, targeted promotional activity and pricing changes associated with our move to every-day low prices negatively impacted margin for the year. Margin was also negatively impacted by 19 basis points associated with distribution expenses, primarily related to higher fuel costs. In addition, lower of cost or market inventory adjustments, primarily related to the 27 stores that closed in the second half of the year, negatively impacted margin by six basis points. These were partially offset by 15 basis points of favorable impact associated with the mix of products sold across product categories. 

SG&A – The increase in SG&A expense as a percentage of sales from 2010 to 2011 was primarily driven by de-leverage of 83 basis points related to charges for store closings, discontinued projects and long-lived asset impairments. We also experienced approximately 15 basis points of de-leverage related to investments made to improve customer experiences, including expenses associated with additional internal and external staffing and technology expenditures. In addition, we experienced de-leverage in payroll taxes and fleet expense. These increases were partially offset by leverage of approximately 40 basis points associated with our proprietary credit program due to reduced program costs associated with lower losses and lower promotional financing as more customers took advantage of the 5% off every day offer. In addition, bonus expense leveraged 30 basis points due to lower attainment levels for the year relative to plan. 

Depreciation – Depreciation expense leveraged 30 basis points for 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to a lower asset base resulting from decreased capital spending and assets becoming fully depreciated or impaired. Property, less accumulated depreciation, decreased to $22.0 billion at February 3, 2012 compared to $22.1 billion at January 28, 2011. At February 3, 2012 and January 28, 2011, we owned 89% of our stores, which included stores on leased land. 

Interest – Net interest expense is comprised of the following: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Net interest expense increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $2.0 billion of notes during 2010 and $1.0 billion of notes during 2011, offset by the repayment of $500 million of notes during 2010. 

Income tax provision – Our effective income tax rate was 36.7% in 2011 compared to 37.7% in 2010. The reduction in the effective tax rate was predominantly due to the recognition of benefits from the federal HIRE (Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment) retention tax credit as well as various state tax credit programs. 

25 

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009 

Net sales – Net sales increased 3.4% to $48.8 billion in 2010. Comparable store sales increased 1.3% in 2010 compared to a decline of 6.7% in 2009. We experienced comparable store sales increases over 2009 for each quarter and saw evidence of economic stabilization, as comparable store sales performance was more balanced across geographic markets in 2010. Comparable store customer transactions increased 0.9%, and comparable store average ticket increased 0.5% versus 2009, as larger project sales remained slow for the year. 

Overall, while growth in household spending moderately accelerated late in the year, it remained constrained by high unemployment, modest income growth, lower housing wealth and tight credit. As a result, customers continued to focus on non-discretionary and smaller discretionary projects during 2010. This focus was reflected by strength in categories that support smaller projects such as Tools and Lawn & Landscape, both of which outperformed the company average. Meanwhile, categories that are more discretionary in nature such as Fashion Plumbing, Cabinets & Countertops and Home Fashions, Storage & Cleaning were negatively impacted by the remaining market uncertainty and performed below the company average. 

We seized opportunities during the year to drive additional sales by quickly executing programs that helped customers benefit from government incentives. The Cash for Appliances rebate program, as well as our continued focus on market-specific assortments to ensure that we have the right products in the right markets, helped drive comparable store sales increases above the company average for our Appliances category. In addition, our PSE program, along with focused Special Order Sales promotions, helped customers take advantage of the higher tax credits for energy-efficient improvements that expired at the end of the year. The PSE program also helped us to increase our 2010 comparable store installed sales over 10%, with the greatest growth occurring in Millwork, Lumber and Building Materials. 

Comparable store sales for our Seasonal Living category also outperformed the company average for 2010. The increase was driven by improved sell-through of grills and grill accessories, patio furniture and holiday assortments, as well as increased sales of room air conditioners as a result of prolonged extreme heat across the U.S. in the middle of the year. 

Gross margin – Gross margin of 35.14% for 2010 represented a 28 basis point increase over 2009. The increase was driven by improvements in margin rates, primarily in Seasonal Living, Lumber and Hardware, which resulted in 38 basis points of improvement. The rate increase is primarily attributable to better sell-through of seasonal inventory this year relative to 2009, our increased number of competitive pricing zones, and our Base Price Optimization strategy. The rate improvement was partially offset by a 17 basis point unfavorable impact from the mix of products sold across categories, driven by increased sales in Appliances. 

SG&A – The decrease in SG&A as a percentage of sales from 2009 to 2010 was primarily driven by leverage of 23 basis points in bonus expense, due to lower attainment levels relative to plan. Impairment and discontinued project expense leveraged 13 basis points due to lower charges associated with existing stores as well as fewer construction projects discontinued in the current year. We also experienced nine basis points of leverage associated with our proprietary credit programs due to decreased program costs for the year. This was partially offset by de-leverage in store payroll due to the impact of the new Facilities Service Associate (FSA) position and wage growth, fleet expense due to increased deliveries related to free delivery promotions and increased average fuel costs, and bank card expense due to increased bank card transaction volume and higher transaction fees. 

Depreciation – Depreciation expense decreased slightly for 2010 compared to 2009 due to a lower asset base resulting from decreased capital spending and assets becoming fully depreciated in 2010. Property, less accumulated depreciation, decreased to $22.1 billion at January 28, 2011 compared to $22.5 billion at January 29, 2010. At January 28, 2011 and January 29, 2010, we owned 89% and 88% of our stores, respectively, which included stores on leased land. 

26 

Interest – Net interest expense is comprised of the following: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Net interest expense increased primarily as a result of the issuance of $2.0 billion of notes during 2010 and due to the impact of tax settlements that favorably impacted our tax-related interest accruals in 2009, offset by the repayment of $500 million of notes during 2010. 

Income tax provision – Our effective income tax rate was 37.7% in 2010 versus 36.9% in 2009. The lower effective tax rate in 2009 was primarily due to certain prior year favorable state tax settlements, which decreased the effective tax rate by approximately 70 basis points. 

LOWE’S BUSINESS OUTLOOK 

Our fiscal year 2012 contains 52 weeks as compared to our fiscal 2011 which contained 53 weeks. Therefore, our fiscal 2012 growth rates, with the exception of comparable store sales which is computed on a 52-week versus 52- week basis, will be negatively impacted by comparing 52 weeks with 53 weeks in fiscal 2011. 

As of February 27, 2012, the date of our fourth quarter 2011 earnings release, we expected total sales in 2012 to increase 1% to 2%. We expected comparable store sales to increase 1% to 3% in 2012. We expected to open approximately 10 stores during 2012. Earnings before interest and taxes as a percentage of sales (operating margin) were expected to increase approximately 100 basis points. In addition, depreciation expense was expected to be approximately $1.5 billion. Diluted earnings per share of $1.75 to $1.85 were expected for the fiscal year ending February 1, 2013. Our guidance assumed approximately $4.5 billion in share repurchases during 2012, spread evenly across the four quarters. 

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash Flows 

Cash flows from operating activities continued to provide the primary source of our liquidity. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2011 versus 2010 was primarily driven by an increase in net earnings, adjusted for non-cash charges related to net losses on property and other assets, and changes in working capital. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities for 2011 versus 2010 was driven by net cash inflows related to investments, partially offset by an increase in cash used for property acquired related to investments in corporate systems and store information technology. Net cash used in financing activities for 2011 was primarily driven by share repurchases of $2.9 billion which was partially offset by net proceeds from the issuance of $1.0 billion of notes in November 2011. Net cash used in financing activities for 2010 was primarily driven by share repurchases of $2.6 billion which was partially offset by net proceeds from the issuance of $2.0 billion of notes in April and November 2010 and the repayment of $500 million of notes that matured in June 2010. 

Sources of Liquidity 

In addition to our cash flows from operations, liquidity is provided by our short-term borrowing facilities and through the issuance of long-term debt. On October 25, 2011, we entered into a second amended and restated credit agreement (Amended Facility) to modify the senior credit facility dated June 2007, which provided for borrowings of up to $1.75 billion through June 2012. The Amended Facility extends the maturity date to October 2016 and continues to provide for borrowings of up to $1.75 billion. The Amended Facility supports our commercial paper program and has a $500 million letter of credit sublimit. Letters of credit issued pursuant to the Amended Facility reduce the amount available for 

27 

borrowing under its terms. Borrowings made are unsecured and are priced at fixed rates based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms of the Amended Facility. The Amended Facility contains certain restrictive covenants, which include maintenance of a debt leverage ratio as defined by the Amended Facility. We were in compliance with those covenants at February 3, 2012. Thirteen banking institutions are participating in the Amended Facility. There were no outstanding borrowings or letters of credit under the Amended Facility and no outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program at February 3, 2012. 

We have a Canadian dollar (C$) denominated credit facility in the amount of C$50 million that provides revolving credit support for our Canadian operations. This uncommitted credit facility provides us with the ability to make unsecured borrowings, which are priced at fixed rates based upon market conditions at the time of funding in accordance with the terms of the credit facility. As of February 3, 2012, there were no borrowings outstanding under this credit facility. 

In 2011, our board of directors approved a change in the financial metric we use to determine our available debt capacity from time to time. At February 3, 2012, our available debt capacity was $9.6 billion, which compared to debt outstanding at that date of $7.6 billion. We plan to issue additional debt during 2012 and expect to use the net proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include repurchases of shares of our common stock, capital expenditures, repayment of long-term debt maturities, acquisitions, other strategic initiatives and working capital needs. The amount and timing of any additional debt issuances in 2012 will depend upon not only our financial performance and estimated available debt capacity at the time, but also upon macroeconomic and debt capital market conditions during the year.  

We expect to continue to have access to the capital markets on both short and long-term bases when needed for liquidity purposes by issuing commercial paper or new long-term debt. The availability and the borrowing costs of these funds could be adversely affected, however, by a downgrade of our debt ratings or a deterioration of certain financial ratios. The table below reflects our debt ratings by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s as of April 2, 2012, which we are disclosing to enhance understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effect of our ratings on our cost of funds. Although we currently do not expect a downgrade in our debt ratings, our commercial paper and senior debt ratings may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We believe that net cash provided by operating and financing activities will be adequate not only for our operating requirements, but also for our expansion plans, investments in our existing stores, investments in information technology, repurchases of shares of common stock and acquisitions, if any, over the next 12 months. There are no provisions in any agreements that would require early cash settlement of existing debt or leases as a result of a downgrade in our debt rating or a decrease in our stock price. In addition, we do not have a significant amount of cash held in foreign affiliates. 

Cash Requirements 

Capital expenditures 

Our fiscal 2012 capital budget is approximately $1.4 billion, inclusive of approximately $100 million of lease commitments, resulting in a planned net cash outflow of $1.3 billion. Approximately 45% of the planned net cash outflow is for investments to enhance the customer experience, inclusive of enhancements in information technology. Existing stores account for approximately 30% of planned net cash outflow including investments in resets and remerchandising. In addition, approximately 15% of the planned net cash outflow is for store expansion. Our expansion plans for 2012 consist of approximately 10 new stores and are expected to increase sales floor square footage slightly. All of the 2012 projects are expected to be owned, which includes approximately 35% of the stores on leased land. Other planned capital expenditures include investing in our distribution network, a part of which is the addition of one regional distribution center. 

28 

During 2009, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Australian retailer Woolworths Limited, to develop a chain of home improvement stores in Australia. As of February 3, 2012, we had contributed approximately $375 million. The venture opened its first seven stores under the name MastersTM in 2011, and expects to open 15 to 20 stores in 2012. 

Debt and capital 

In November 2011, we issued $1.0 billion of unsecured notes, in two tranches: $500 million of 3.8% notes maturing in November 2021 and $500 million of 5.125% notes maturing in November 2041. Net proceeds from the 3.8% and 5.125% notes were $497 million and $495 million, respectively. Net proceeds were available for general corporate purposes, including repurchases of shares of our common stock, capital expenditures, acquisitions and working capital needs. 

Dividends declared during fiscal 2011 totaled $672 million. Our dividend payment dates are established such that dividends are paid in the subsequent quarter to their declaration. Dividends declared in the fourth quarter of 2011 were paid in fiscal 2012 and totaled $174 million. 

We have a share repurchase program that is executed through purchases made from time to time in the open market or through private transactions. Shares purchased under the share repurchase program are retired and returned to authorized and unissued status. On August 19, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a new $5.0 billion share repurchase program with no expiration. As of February 3, 2012, we had a remaining repurchase authorization of $4.5 billion. We expect to utilize the remaining authorization by the end of fiscal 2012. 

The ratio of debt to equity plus debt was 31.6% and 26.6% as of February 3, 2012, and January 28, 2011, respectively. 

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

Other than in connection with executing operating leases, we do not have any off-balance sheet financing that has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material, current or future effect on our financial condition, cash flows, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS 

The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at February 3, 2012: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 Amounts do not include taxes, common area maintenance, insurance or contingent rent because these amounts have historically been insignificant. 

2 Represents commitments related to certain marketing and information technology programs, and purchases of merchandise inventory. 

At February 3, 2012, our reserve for uncertain tax positions (including penalties and interest), net of amounts held on deposit by taxing authorities, was $111 million, of which $107 million was classified as a current liability and $4 million was classified as a noncurrent liability. At this time, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years beyond 12 months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. 

At February 3, 2012, the Company had no significant commercial commitments. 

29 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements presented in this Form 10-K requires us to make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates on historical results and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable, all of which form the basis for making estimates concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following accounting policies affect the most significant estimates and management judgments used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. 

Merchandise Inventory 

Description 

We record an obsolete inventory reserve for the anticipated loss associated with selling inventories below cost. This reserve is based on our current knowledge with respect to inventory levels, sales trends and historical experience. During 2011, our reserve increased approximately $8 million to $47 million as of February 3, 2012. 

We also record an inventory reserve for the estimated shrinkage between physical inventories. This reserve is based primarily on actual shrinkage results from previous physical inventories. During 2011, the inventory shrinkage reserve increased approximately $14 million to $141 million as of February 3, 2012. 

In addition, we receive funds from vendors in the normal course of business, principally as a result of purchase volumes, sales, early payments or promotions of vendors’ products, which generally do not represent the reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs that we incurred to sell the vendor’s product. We treat these funds as a reduction in the cost of inventory as the amounts are accrued, and recognize these funds as a reduction of cost of sales when the inventory is sold. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

We do not believe that our merchandise inventories are subject to significant risk of obsolescence in the near term, and we have the ability to adjust purchasing practices based on anticipated sales trends and general economic conditions. However, changes in consumer purchasing patterns or a deterioration in product quality could result in the need for additional reserves. Likewise, changes in the estimated shrink reserve may be necessary, based on the timing and results of physical inventories. We also apply judgment in the determination of levels of non-productive inventory and assumptions about net realizable value. 

For vendor funds, we develop accrual rates based on the provisions of the agreements in place. Due to the complexity and diversity of the individual vendor agreements, we perform analyses and review historical purchase trends and volumes throughout the year, adjust accrual rates as appropriate and confirm actual amounts with select vendors to ensure the amounts earned are appropriately recorded. Amounts accrued throughout the year could be impacted if actual purchase volumes differ from projected purchase volumes, especially in the case of programs that provide for increased funding when graduated purchase volumes are met. 

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our inventory valuation or the related reserves for obsolete inventory or inventory shrinkage during the past three fiscal years. We believe that we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates for both of these inventory reserves. However, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded reserves. A 10% change in either the amount of products considered obsolete or the weighted average estimated loss rate used in the calculation of our obsolete inventory reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately $3 million for 2011. A 10% change in the estimated shrinkage rate included in the calculation of our inventory shrinkage reserve would have affected net earnings by approximately $9 million for 2011. 

30 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize vendor funds during the past three fiscal years. If actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and estimates used, we could be exposed to additional adjustments that could positively or negatively impact gross margin and inventory. However, substantially all receivables associated with these activities do not require subjective long-term estimates because they are collected within the following fiscal year. Adjustments to gross margin and inventory in the following fiscal year have historically not been material. 

Long-Lived Asset Impairment 

Description 

We review the carrying amounts of locations whenever certain events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. When evaluating locations for impairment, our asset group is at an individual location level, as that is the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable. Cash flows for individual locations do not include an allocation of corporate overhead. 

We evaluate locations for triggering events relating to long-lived asset impairment on a quarterly basis to determine when a location’s asset carrying values may not be recoverable. For operating locations, our primary indicator that asset carrying values may not be recoverable is consistently negative cash flow for a 12-month period for those locations that have been open in the same location for a sufficient period of time to allow for meaningful analysis of ongoing operating results. Management also monitors other factors when evaluating operating locations for impairment, including individual locations’ execution of their operating plans and local market conditions, including incursion, which is the opening of either other Lowe’s locations or those of a direct competitor within the same market. We also consider there to be a triggering event when there is a current expectation that it is more likely than not that a given location will be closed significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. 

A potential impairment has occurred if projected future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the location’s assets are less than the carrying amount of the assets. When determining the stream of projected future cash flows associated with an individual operating location, management makes assumptions, incorporating local market conditions, about key store variables including sales growth rates, gross margin and controllable expenses, such as store payroll and occupancy expense, as well as asset residual values or lease rates. An impairment loss is recognized when the carrying amount of the operating location is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. 

We use an income approach to determine the fair value of our individual operating locations, which requires discounting projected future cash flows. This involves making assumptions regarding both a location’s future cash flows, as described above, and an appropriate discount rate to determine the present value of those future cash flows. We discount our cash flow estimates at a rate commensurate with the risk that selected market participants would assign to the cash flows. The selected market participants represent a group of other retailers with a market footprint similar in size to ours. 

We use a market approach to determine the fair value of our individual locations identified for closure. This involves making assumptions regarding the estimated selling prices or estimated lease rates by obtaining information from property brokers or appraisers in the specific markets being evaluated. The information includes comparable sales of similar assets and assumptions about demand in the market for purchase or lease of these assets. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

Our impairment evaluations require us to apply judgment in determining whether a triggering event has occurred, including the evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that a location will be closed significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. Our impairment loss calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected future cash flows, including estimated sales, margin and controllable expenses, and assumptions about market performance for operating locations and estimated selling prices or lease rates for locations identified for closure. We also apply judgment in estimating asset fair values, including the selection of an appropriate discount rate for fair values determined using an income approach. 

31 

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions 

During 2011, 12 operating locations and 27 locations identified for closure experienced a triggering event and were evaluated for recoverability. Four of the 12 operating locations and all 27 of the locations identified for closure were determined to be impaired. We recorded impairment losses related to operating locations and locations identified for closure of $309 million during 2011, compared to $36 million during 2010. 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to estimate the future cash flows of operating locations or locations identified for closure during the past three fiscal years. If the actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in determining whether it is more likely than not that a location will be closed significantly before the end of its useful life or in estimating future cash flows and determining asset fair values, our actual impairment losses could vary positively or negatively from our estimated impairment losses. 

Eight of the 12 operating locations that experienced a triggering event during 2011 were determined to be recoverable and therefore were not impaired. For seven of these locations, the expected undiscounted cash flows substantially exceeded the net book value of the location’s assets. A 10% reduction in projected sales used to estimate future cash flows at the latest date that these eight operating locations were evaluated for impairment would have resulted in the impairment of one of these locations and increased recognized impairment losses by approximately $9 million. 

We analyzed other assumptions made in estimating the future cash flows of the operating locations evaluated for impairment, but the sensitivity of those assumptions was not significant to the estimates. 

All 27 of the locations identified for closure during 2011 were determined to be impaired. For these locations, a 10% reduction in the estimated selling prices for owned locations, or the present value of estimated cash inflows from sublease activity for leased locations, at the dates that the locations were evaluated for impairment would have increased recognized impairment losses by approximately $7 million. 

Store Closing Lease Obligations 

Description 

When locations under operating leases are closed, we recognize a liability for the fair value of future contractual obligations associated with the leased location. The fair value of the store closing lease obligation is determined using an expected present value cash flow model incorporating future minimum lease payments, property taxes, utilities, common area maintenance and other ongoing expenses, net of estimated sublease income and other recoverable items, discounted at a credit-adjusted risk free rate. The expected present value cash flow model uses a probability weighted scenario approach that assigns varying cash flows to certain scenarios based on the expected likelihood of outcomes. Estimating the fair value involves making assumptions regarding estimated sublease income by obtaining information from property brokers or appraisers in the specific markets being evaluated. The information includes comparable lease rates of similar assets and assumptions about demand in the market for leasing these assets. Subsequent changes to the liability, including a change resulting from a revision to either the timing or the amount of estimated cash flows, are recognized in the period of the change. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

Our store closing lease liability calculations require us to apply judgment in estimating expected future cash flows, primarily related to estimated sublease income, and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. 

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions 

During 2011, 13 stores under operating lease were closed, which includes one store that was relocated. We recorded $76 million of expense for store closing lease obligations during 2011. These charges included $67 million related to new liabilities recorded during 2011 and $9 million of adjustments related to previously recorded liabilities. 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to estimate the expected future cash flows of closed locations under operating leases during the past three fiscal years. If the actual results are not consistent with the assumptions and judgments we have made in estimating expected future cash flows, our store closing lease obligation losses could vary positively or negatively from our estimated losses. A 10% decrease in the estimated present value of 

32 

cash inflows from sublease activity for the 13 stores under operating lease that closed during 2011 would have increased expenses recorded for lease obligations by approximately $11 million. 

Self-Insurance 

Description 

We are self-insured for certain losses relating to workers’ compensation; automobile; property; general and product liability; extended protection plan; and certain medical and dental claims. Self-insurance claims filed and claims incurred but not reported are accrued based upon our estimates of the discounted ultimate cost for self-insured claims incurred using actuarial assumptions followed in the insurance industry and historical experience. During 2011, our self-insurance liability increased approximately $29 million to $864 million as of February 3, 2012. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate  

These estimates are subject to changes in the regulatory environment; utilized discount rate; projected exposures including payroll, sales and vehicle units; as well as the frequency, lag and severity of claims. 

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish our self-insurance liability during the past three fiscal years. Although we believe that we have the ability to reasonably estimate losses related to claims, it is possible that actual results could differ from recorded self-insurance liabilities. A 10% change in our self-insurance liability would have affected net earnings by approximately $55 million for 2011. A 100 basis point change in our discount rate would have affected net earnings by approximately $20 million for 2011. 

Revenue Recognition 

Description 

See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our revenue recognition policies. The following accounting estimates relating to revenue recognition require management to make assumptions and apply judgment regarding the effects of future events that cannot be determined with certainty. 

We sell separately-priced extended protection plan contracts under a Lowe’s-branded program for which the Company is ultimately self-insured. The Company recognizes revenues from extended protection plan sales on a straight-line basis over the respective contract term. Extended protection plan contract terms primarily range from one to four years from the date of purchase or the end of the manufacturer’s warranty, as applicable. The Company consistently groups and evaluates extended protection plan contracts based on the characteristics of the underlying products and the coverage provided in order to monitor for expected losses. A loss on the overall contract would be recognized if the expected costs of performing services under the contracts exceeded the amount of unamortized acquisition costs and related deferred revenue associated with the contracts. Deferred revenues associated with the extended protection plan contracts increased $73 million to $704 million as of February 3, 2012. 

We defer revenue and cost of sales associated with settled transactions for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed. Revenue is deferred based on the actual amounts received. We use historical gross margin rates to estimate the adjustment to cost of sales for these transactions. During 2011, deferred revenues associated with these transactions increased $59 million to $430 million as of February 3, 2012. 

Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate 

For extended protection plans, there is judgment inherent in our evaluation of expected losses as a result of our methodology for grouping and evaluating extended protection plan contracts and from the actuarial determination of the estimated cost of the contracts. There is also judgment inherent in our determination of the recognition pattern of costs of performing services under these contracts. 

For the deferral of revenue and cost of sales associated with transactions for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed, there is judgment inherent in our estimates of gross margin rates. 

33 

Effect if actual results differ from assumptions 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to recognize revenue on our extended protection plan contracts during the past three fiscal years. We currently do not anticipate incurring any overall contract losses on our extended protection plan contracts. Although we believe that we have the ability to adequately monitor and estimate expected losses under the extended protection plan contracts, it is possible that actual results could differ from our estimates. In addition, if future evidence indicates that the costs of performing services under these contracts are incurred on other than a straight-line basis, the timing of revenue recognition under these contracts could change. A 10% change in the amount of revenue recognized in 2011 under these contracts would have affected net earnings by approximately $12 million. 

We have not made any material changes in the methodology used to reverse net sales and cost of sales related to amounts received for which customers have not yet taken possession of merchandise or for which installation has not yet been completed. We believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates related to the impact to cost of sales for these transactions. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may incur additional income or expense. A 10% change in the estimate of the gross margin rates applied to these transactions would have affected net earnings by approximately $7 million in 2011. 

34 

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

We speak throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K in forward-looking statements about our future, but particularly in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The words “believe,” “expect,” “will,” “should,” and other similar expressions are intended to identify those forward-looking statements. While we believe our expectations are reasonable, they are not guarantees of future performance. Our actual results could differ substantially from our expectations. 

For a detailed description of the risks and uncertainties that we are exposed to, you should read the “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements in this section and in the “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this report. 

35 
Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk