Item 1A. Risk Factors  

A number of significant risk factors could materially affect our specific business operations, and cause our performance to differ materially from any future results projected or implied by our prior statements. The risk factors generally have been separated into three groups: (i) risks relating to the separation; (ii) risks relating to our common shares; and (iii) risks relating to our business. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company in each category of risk. The risks and uncertainties our company faces, however, are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.  

In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.  

If any of the following risks or uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common shares could decline.  

Risks Relating to the Separation  

We may not achieve the benefits expected from our separation from E. W. Scripps.  

We expect that, as a stand-alone, independent public company, we will be able to design and implement corporate policies and strategies based primarily on the characteristics of our business, to focus our financial resources wholly on our own operations, and to implement and maintain a capital structure designed to meet our own specific needs. Nonetheless, we may not be able to achieve all or any of these benefits. Furthermore, by separating from E. W. Scripps there is a risk that we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events than we would have been were we still a part of the current E. W. Scripps. As part of E. W. Scripps, we enjoyed certain benefits, including operating diversity, purchasing and borrowing leverage, and available capital for investments. These benefits may not be as readily achievable as a smaller, stand-alone company.  

We may not achieve all the benefits of scale that the combined company achieved.  

Our businesses were historically integrated with the other businesses of E. W. Scripps. We shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. We entered into short-term transition agreements that govern certain commercial and other relationships between us and E. W. Scripps after the separation. These temporary arrangements, which will end no later than the second anniversary of the distribution date, may not provide the same economic benefits our businesses have enjoyed by being integrated with the other businesses of E. W. Scripps. Additionally, the cost of performing certain functions and the cost of agreements negotiated with third parties after the temporary arrangements with E. W. Scripps terminate may be higher than the costs that would have been incurred as a combined company. The loss of these benefits of scale could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition following the completion of the separation.  

If E. W. Scripps fails to perform under various transition agreements that were executed as part of the separation, we may incur operational difficulties and/or losses.  

In connection with the separation, Scripps Networks Interactive and E. W. Scripps entered into various agreements, including a Separation and Distribution Agreement, a Tax Allocation Agreement, a Transition Services Agreement and an Employee Matters Agreement. The Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Allocation Agreement and Employee Matters Agreement determined the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. The Transition Services Agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each company on the other company’s behalf for a period of time after the separation until both companies are capable of providing such services on their own. We will rely on E. W. Scripps to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If E. W. Scripps is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could incur operational difficulties or losses.  

The tax rules applicable to the separation could restrict us from engaging in certain corporate transactions for a period of time after the separation.  

To preserve the tax-free treatment to E. W. Scripps of the distribution, under the Tax Allocation Agreement that we entered into with E. W. Scripps, for the two-year period following the distribution, we are subject to restrictions with respect to:  

   •    entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of our shares would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, unless certain tests are met;  

   •    issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds;  

   •    repurchasing Scripps Networks Interactive common shares beyond certain thresholds;  

   •    ceasing to actively conduct the Scripps Networks Interactive business; and  

   •    taking any other action that prevents the spin-off and related transactions from being tax-free.  

These restrictions could limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new businesses or other transactions that might increase the value of our business.  

8  

Table of Contents 

In connection with the separation, E. W. Scripps will indemnify us for certain liabilities. There can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that E. W. Scripps’ ability to satisfy its indemnification obligations will not be impaired in the future.  

Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, E. W. Scripps agreed to indemnify us from certain liabilities with respect to events that took place prior to, on or after the distribution date relating to its business or for which it has otherwise retained responsibility in whole or in part. The potential liabilities subject to such indemnity from E. W. Scripps cannot be predicted or quantified, and such indemnification obligation of E. W. Scripps is not limited to any maximum amount. There can be no assurance that the indemnity from E. W. Scripps will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that E. W. Scripps will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from E. W. Scripps any amounts for which we are held liable, we will be temporarily required to bear those losses ourselves until such recovery.  

Until the Edward W. Scripps Trust terminates, our pension plan and the E. W. Scripps pension plan operate under a “controlled-group” status, potentially subjecting us to liability in the event that E. W. Scripps is unable to satisfy its long-term pension obligations.  

Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Certain of our directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their positions in Scripps Networks Interactive and E. W. Scripps and because of their share or option ownership in E. W. Scripps.  

Three directors of Scripps Networks Interactive are also members of the E. W. Scripps Board of Directors. These directors are trustees of The Edward W. Scripps Trust. These common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when Scripps Networks Interactive’s and E. W. Scripps’ management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for the two companies.  

Also, because of their current or former positions with E. W. Scripps, most of the persons we expect to be our directors and executive officers own E. W. Scripps Class A Common Shares, options to purchase shares of E. W. Scripps Class A Common Shares or other equity awards. Following the distribution, these officers and directors may own E. W. Scripps Class A Common Shares. The individual holdings may be significant for some of these persons compared to their total assets. This ownership may create, or, may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for E. W. Scripps and Scripps Networks Interactive. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between Scripps Networks Interactive and E. W. Scripps regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship thereafter between the companies. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if Scripps Networks Interactive and E. W. Scripps enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future.  

Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Shares  

Common Voting Shares are principally held by The Edward W. Scripps Trust, and this could inhibit potential changes of control.  

We have two classes of shares: Common Voting Shares and Class A Common Shares. Holders of Class A Common Shares are entitled to elect one-third of the board of directors, but are not permitted to vote on any other matters except as required by Ohio law. Holders of Common Voting Shares are entitled to elect the remainder of the Board and to vote on all other matters. The Edward W. Scripps Trust (“Trust”) holds approximately 88 percent of the Common Voting Shares. As a result, the Trust has the ability to elect two-thirds of the board of directors and to direct the outcome of any matter that does not require a vote of the Class A Common Shares. Because this concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to our business, the market price of our Class A Common Shares could be adversely affected.  

Following termination of the Edward W. Scripps Trust, descendants of Edward W. Scripps will control us.  

Certain descendants of Robert Paine Scripps who are beneficiaries of the Edward W. Scripps Trust and certain descendants of John P. Scripps are parties to an agreement (“Scripps Family Agreement”) to restrict the transfer and govern the voting of E. W. Scripps Common Voting Shares that such persons (and trusts of which they are trustees) may acquire or own at or after the termination of the Trust. This agreement has been amended to restrict the transfer and govern the voting of our Common Voting Shares that such persons and trusts may acquire or own at or after the termination of the Trust. E. W. Scripps is a party to the Scripps Family Agreement, and we have become a party thereto by executing the amendment. Our obligations under this agreement generally will relate to facilitating meetings of the signatories to the agreement to enable them to decide how to vote their shares at annual or special meetings of our shareholders. The Scripps Family Agreement facilitates the ability of its signatories to control us and E. W. Scripps following termination of the Trust.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Federal law and Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) regulations applicable because of E. W. Scripps’ and Scripps Networks Interactive’s common directors and voting shareholders may limit Scripps Networks Interactive’s activities, including the ability to own or operate media properties it does not presently own or operate.  

For FCC purposes, the common directors and five percent or greater voting shareholders of E. W. Scripps and Scripps Networks Interactive are deemed to hold attributable interests in each of the companies. As a result, the business and conduct of one company may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to the other company.  

Risks Relating to Our Business  

A wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance. The most significant factors affecting our operations include those listed below.  

Changes in public and consumer tastes and preferences could reduce demand for our services and reduce profitability of our businesses.   

Each of our businesses provides content and services whose success is primarily dependent upon acceptance by the public. We must consistently create and distribute offerings that appeal to the prevailing consumer tastes at any point in time. Audience preferences change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what content will be successful at any point. Other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and the growing competition for consumer discretionary spending may also affect the audience for our content and services. If our Lifestyle Media businesses do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, our revenue from advertising sales, which are based in part on network ratings, may decline and adversely affect our profitability. If our Interactive Services businesses are unable to provide service and content popular with the public, traffic to the sites will decrease, which may result in a decrease in referral revenue and profitability.  

If we are unable to maintain distribution agreements with cable and satellite distributors on acceptable terms, our revenues and profitability could be negatively affected.  

We enter into long-term contracts for the distribution of our national television networks on cable and satellite television systems. Our long-term distribution arrangements enable us to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the United States. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate them. If we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms, we may lose distribution rights.  

The loss of a significant number of affiliation arrangements on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our national television networks, thereby adversely affecting affiliate fee revenue, and potentially impacting our ability to sell advertising or the rates we charge for such advertising.  

Networks that are carried on digital tiers are dependent upon the continued upgrade of cable systems to digital capability and the public’s continuing acceptance of, and willingness to pay for upgrades to digital cable as well as our ability to negotiate favorable carriage agreements on widely accepted digital tiers.  

Consolidation among cable television system operators has given the largest cable and satellite television systems considerable leverage in their relationship with programmers. The two largest cable television system operators provide service to approximately 41 percent of households receiving cable or satellite television service today, while the two largest satellite television operators provide service to an additional 30 percent of such households.  

Continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors available to carry our programming, subject our affiliate fee revenue to greater volume discounts, and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators.  

Advertising and marketing spending by our customers is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations.  

Revenues in our Lifestyle Media segment are influenced by advertiser demand and are generally higher in the second and fourth quarters due to the increased demand in the spring and holiday seasons. Referral fee revenues in our Interactive Services segment are highest in the fourth quarter primarily due to the increased online shopping activity during the holiday season. If a short-term negative impact on our business were to occur during a time of high seasonal demand, there could be a disproportionate effect on the operating results of that business for the year.  

Our businesses face significant competitive pressures related to attracting consumers and advertisers, and failure by us to maintain our competitive advantage may affect the profitability of the businesses.  

We face substantial competition in our Lifestyle Media and Interactive Services businesses from alternative providers of similar services. Our national television networks compete for viewers with other broadcast and national television networks as well as with home video products and Internet usage, and they compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers. Additionally, our national television networks compete for advertising revenues with a variety of other media alternatives including other broadcast and national television networks, the Internet, newspapers, radio stations, and billboards. Our Lifestyle Media branded Web sites compete for visitors and advertising dollars with other forms of media aimed at attracting similar audiences and must maintain popular content in order to maintain and increase site traffic. Our Interactive Services businesses compete for marketing service revenues with other comparison shopping services, general search   

10  

Table of Contents 

 engines, and other providers of information on shopping and essential home services. Our ability to maintain our relationship with participating retailers and service providers is largely dependent on our ability to provide them a cost effective means of attracting customers. Competition in each of these areas may divert consumers from our services, which could reduce the profitability of our businesses.  

Changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may impact the performance of our businesses.  

We must adapt to advances in technologies and distribution platforms related to content transfer and storage to ensure that our content remains desirable and widely available to our audiences. The ability to anticipate and take advantage of new and future sources of revenue from technological developments will affect our ability to continue to increase our revenue and expand our business. Additionally, we must adapt to the changing consumer behavior driven by advances such as video-on-demand, devices providing consumers the ability to view content from remote locations, and general preferences for user-generated and interactive content. Changes of these types may impact our traditional distribution methods for our services and content. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content are responsive to our target audiences, there could be a negative effect on our business.  

Our Lifestyle Media business is subject to risks of adverse changes in laws and regulations, which could result in reduced distribution of certain of our national television networks.  

Our programming services, and the distributors of the services, including cable operators, satellite operators and Internet companies, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local governments. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations. For example, legislators and regulators continue to consider rules that would effectively require cable television operators to offer all programming on an à la carte basis (which would allow viewers to subscribe to individual networks rather than a package of channels) and/or require programmers to sell channels to distributors on an à la carte basis. Certain cable television operators and other distributors have already introduced tiers, or more targeted channel packages, to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. The unbundling of program services at the retail and/or wholesale level could reduce distribution of certain of our program services, thereby leading to reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses, and could affect our ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars or distribution fees.  

We purchase keyword advertising on general search engines to attract consumers to our interactive services web sites, and changes to our contracts with the search engines or the search engines’ practices could make it more difficult and/or costly to attract traffic to our sites.  

We attract traffic to our Interactive Services Web sites through search results displayed by Google, Yahoo! and other popular general search engines. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic listings and sponsored listings. We rely on both algorithmic and sponsored listings to attract consumers to our comparison shopping Internet sites.  

Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased, and instead are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed and controlled by the search engine. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. Modification of such algorithms may result in fewer consumers clicking through to our Internet sites.  

We also rely on purchased listings to attract consumers to our Web sites. Many general search engines also operate Internet shopping services. Modification or termination of our contractual relationships with general search engines to purchase keyword advertising could result in fewer consumers clicking through to our Internet site. We may incur additional expenses to replace this traffic.  

Approximately 40 percent of our 2008 referral fee revenue came from one general search engine and a change in this relationship could reduce the revenue of the business.  

We are currently operating under an agreement with Google to participate in its sponsored links program. Under the agreement, we display listings from the search engine’s advertisers as a part of our service and we receive a share of the revenues earned by the search engine when consumers visit the advertisers’ Web sites. Our revenues could be negatively impacted if this agreement is not renewed upon expiration or if the agreement is not renewed on similar terms.  

Changes in economic conditions in the United States, the regional economies in which we operate or in specific economic sectors could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses.  

Approximately 80 percent of our revenues in 2008 were derived from marketing and advertising spending by businesses operating in the United States. Advertising and marketing spending is sensitive to economic conditions, and tends to decline in recessionary periods. A decline in economic conditions could reduce advertising prices and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues. A decline in economic conditions could also impact consumer discretionary spending. Such a reduction in consumer spending may impact the volume of online shopping, which could adversely affect our comparison shopping businesses.  

11  

Table of Contents 

We may not be able to protect intellectual property rights upon which our business relies, and if we lose intellectual property protection, we may lose valuable assets.  

Our business depends on our intellectual property, including internally developed technology, data resources and brand identification. We attempt to protect these intellectual property rights through a combination of copyright, trade secret, patent and trademark law and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements. We also depend on our trade names and domain names. We file applications for patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property registrations, but we may not be granted such intellectual property protections. In addition, even if such registrations are issued, they may not fully protect all important aspects of our business and there is no guarantee that our business does not or will not infringe upon intellectual property rights of others. Furthermore, intellectual property laws vary from country to country, and it may be more difficult to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights in some foreign jurisdictions. In the future, we may need to litigate in the United States or elsewhere to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could potentially be expensive and possibly divert the attention of our management.  

Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our service, technology and other intellectual property, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent any misappropriation or confusion among consumers and merchants, or unauthorized use of these rights. If we are unable to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, then we may not realize the full value of these assets, and our business may suffer.  

We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business.  

From time to time, third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel away from our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue use of certain intellectual property rights, our revenue could be negatively impacted.  

Our Interactive Services businesses are subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theft.  

Our Interactive Services businesses transmit confidential information over public networks. A significant number of participating retailers authorize us to bill their credit cards directly for referrals provided to the retailer. Consumers switching essential home services provide sensitive personal data when completing contracts with the service providers. We rely upon encryptions and authentication technology provided by third parties to secure transmission of such confidential information.  

Our Web site infrastructure is vulnerable to computer viruses and similar disruptions, and we may be subject to “denial-of-service” attacks that might make our Web sites unavailable for periods of time.  

Recent turmoil in the financial markets may impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments.  

U.S. and global credit and equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption, making it more difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. If these conditions continue or worsen, our cost for borrowing for operations or investments may increase the cost of obtaining financing. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing.  

We could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges.  

We test our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of every year and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would require an interim test, in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“FAS 142”). If the fair value of a reporting unit or an intangible asset is revised downward due to declines in business performance, impairment under FAS 142 could result and a non-cash charge could be required. This could materially affect our reported net earnings.  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge to write-down the goodwill of our Shopzilla business to fair value which reduced net income by $244 million.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None  

12  

Table of Contents 

 Item 2. Properties