Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

General Overview  

Overview  

We own, operate and lease over 24,000 towers for wireless communications, including the towers acquired in the Global Signal Merger (see “Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Acquisition of Global Signal”). Revenues generated from our core site rental business represented 92% of our 2008 consolidated revenues. CCUSA, our largest operating segment, accounted for 94% of our 2008 site rental revenues, of which 74% were derived from the four largest wireless carriers in the U.S. The vast majority of our site rental revenues is of a recurring nature and has been contracted for in a prior year. See “Item 1. Business.”  

The following are certain highlights of our business fundamentals, as further discussed in this Form 10-K, including in “Item 1. Business” and this MD&A:  

   •    potential growth resulting from wireless network expansion;  

   •    site rental revenues under long-term leases with contractual escalations;  

   •    revenues predominately from large wireless carriers;  

   •    majority of land under our towers under long-term control;  

   •    relatively fixed tower operating costs;  

   •    high incremental cash flows on organic revenue growth;  

   •    minimal sustaining capital expenditure requirements;  

   •    majority of our outstanding debt rated investment grade and has fixed rate coupons; and  

   •    significant cash flows from operations.  

Our long-term strategy is to increase stockholder value by translating anticipated future growth in our core site rental business into growth in our results of operations on a per share basis. The key elements of our strategy are (see “Item 1. Business” for further discussion):  

   •    to organically grow revenues and cash flows from our towers by co-locating additional tenants on our existing towers; and  

   •    to allocate capital efficiently (in no particular order: purchase our own common stock, enter into strategic tower acquisitions, selectively construct or acquire towers and distributed antenna systems, acquire the land on which towers are located, improve and structurally enhance our existing towers, and purchase or redeem our debt or preferred stock). See “Liquidity and Capital Resources —Overview.”  

Our long-term strategy is based on our belief that opportunities will be created by the expected continued growth in the wireless communications industry, which depends predominately on the demand for wireless telephony and data services by consumers. As a result of such expected growth in the wireless communications industry, we believe that the demand for our towers will continue and result in organic growth of our revenues due to the co-location of additional tenants on our existing towers. We expect that new tenant additions or modifications of existing installations (collectively referred to as “tenant additions”) on our towers should result in significant incremental cash flow due to the relatively fixed costs to operate a tower (which tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation). Certain of the growth trends in the wireless communications industry are discussed in “Item 1. Business—Strategy.”  

The following is a discussion of certain recent events which may impact our business and our strategy or the wireless communications industry:  

   •    Consumer wireless voice and data service usage increased according to a CTIA U.S. wireless industry survey and other published reports (see “Item 1. Business—Strategy”).  

   •    The auction of spectrum licenses in the FCC 700 MHz Band Auction No. 73 was completed in March 2008 for aggregate bids of $19.6 billion. Verizon Wireless and AT&T accounted for nearly 85% of the dollar value of net bids. One block of the spectrum auctioned included a provision that the carrier provide open access to the network (i.e., to any applications and any devices), which could encourage more innovation.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

We expect this spectrum auction, FCC Advanced Wireless Services Auction No. 66, and future spectrum auctions should enable next generation networks.  

   •    In January 2009, Verizon Wireless completed the acquisition of Alltel Corp., a provider of wireless services to primarily rural markets. We do not expect lease cancellations from duplicate or overlapping networks as a result of this acquisition to have a material adverse affect on our results.  

   •    During the second half of 2008 and the beginning of 2009, the credit markets continued to be challenging and economic growth in the U.S. continued to slow. The deterioration in the credit markets included widening credit spreads and a further lack of liquidity, including certain debt markets being unavailable. The global economic recession is predicted by many to continue to remain slow or worsen during 2009. The following is a discussion of the potential impact on us from the credit markets, economy and foreign exchange markets:  

   •    Historically, aggregate capital spending and the associated demand for our towers by wireless communication companies have been relatively stable over the last several years, although we did see reductions during prior economic downturns. We do not expect the current economic conditions to significantly impact the long-term growth in wireless voice and data demand, which has historically been the predominate driver of demand for our towers over the long-term. Consequently, we currently do not anticipate any material impact on our revenues for 2009 or a material reduction in tenant additions over the near term. In addition, we expect site rental revenues for 2009 of between $1.485 billion and $1.5 billion, representing growth rates from 2008 of between 6% and 7%.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, the U.S. Dollar strengthened considerably against the Australian Dollar, reversing the weakening that occurred during the first half of 2008. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”  

Acquisition of Global Signal  

On January 12, 2007, we completed the Global Signal Merger in a stock and cash transaction valued at approximately $4.0 billion, exclusive of debt of approximately $1.8 billion that remained outstanding as obligations after the Global Signal Merger. We funded the Global Signal Merger with approximately 98.1 million shares of common stock and $550 million of cash obtained primarily from the issuance of tower revenue notes in 2006. We entered into the Global Signal Merger primarily because of anticipated growth opportunities in the Global Signal tower portfolio, including through leveraging our management team and customer service across an enhanced national footprint. We believe such opportunities for growth will be driven by the previously mentioned growth trends in the wireless communications industry.  

The Global Signal Merger significantly increased our tower portfolio (by 10,749 towers) and significantly impacted the comparability of our results of operations and changes in financial condition to prior years. The integration of Global Signal’s operations and tower portfolio was completed in the first quarter of 2008. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of the Global Signal Merger, including (1) the allocation of the purchase price and (2) our unaudited pro forma consolidated results of operations for 2007 as if the Global Signal Merger were completed as of the beginning of 2007. See also notes 3, 4, 6, 8 and 19 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Results of Operations  

The following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with “Item 1. Business,” “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion of our results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts (see “Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and note 1 to our consolidated financial statements).  

21  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The net addition of towers affects the year-to-year comparability of our operating results due to the fact that our operating results only include these towers from the date of their addition or until their date of disposition. A large majority of the increase between 2006 and 2007 in our site rental revenues, site rental costs of operations, general and administrative expenses, integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion and income tax benefit is attributable to the Global Signal Merger. See “Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Acquisition of Global Signal.” In addition to the towers acquired in the Global Signal Merger, we built or acquired 487, 188 and 336 towers in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively.  

Comparison of Consolidated Results  

The following is a comparison of our 2006, 2007 and 2008 consolidated results of operations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Percentage is not meaningful  

 (a) Exclusive of depreciation, amortization and accretion shown separately.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

2007 and 2008. Our consolidated results of operations for 2007 and 2008, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 94% and 94% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 94% and 94% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 96% and 79% of consolidated net loss. Our operating segment results for 2007 and 2008, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see “Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments”).  

Net revenues for 2008 increased by $141.0 million, or 10%, from 2007, of which site rental revenues represented 82% of the overall increase. This increase in site rental revenues was primarily driven by tenant additions across our entire tower portfolio. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth trends in the wireless communications industry.  

Site rental gross margins (site rental revenues less site rental costs of operations) for 2008 increased by $103.3 million, or 12%, from 2007. The increase in the site rental gross margins was predominately driven by the previously mentioned increase in site rental revenues. We expect that future increases in site rental revenues resulting from tenant additions on our towers will have a high incremental margin (percentage of revenue growth converted to gross margin) given the relatively fixed nature of the costs to operate our towers.  

Net loss for 2008 was $48.9 million and included (1) a non-cash impairment charge of $55.9 million related to our investment in FiberTower, (2) losses on the change in fair value of certain interest rate swaps of $37.9 million, and (3) tax benefits of $74.9 million resulting from the completion of an IRS examination. Net loss for 2007 was $222.8 million inclusive of (1) a non-cash impairment charge of $75.6 million related to our investment in FiberTower, (2) the asset write-down and restructuring charges related to Modeo totaling $60.7 million, and (3) integration costs related to the Global Signal Merger of $25.4 million. The improvement in net loss was predominately due to the incremental gross margin in our site rental business of $103.3 million and the impact of the previously mentioned charges and benefits.  

2006 and 2007. Our consolidated results of operations for 2006 and 2007, respectively, consist predominately of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 92% and 94% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 92% and 94% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 88% and 96% of consolidated net loss. Our operating segment results for 2006 and 2007, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see “Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments”).  

Net revenues for 2007 increased by $597.3 million, or 76%, from 2006, of which site rental revenues represented 99% of the overall increase. This increase in site rental revenues was driven by (1) the towers acquired in connection with the Global Signal Merger, and to a lesser extent, (2) tenant additions on our pre-Global Signal Merger towers (occurring during or after 2006), and (3) the 474 towers acquired from Mountain Union. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth trends in the wireless communications industry.  

Site rental gross margins (site rental revenues less site rental costs of operations) for 2007 increased by $358.9 million, or 74%, from 2006. The increase in the site rental gross margins was predominately driven by the previously mentioned increase in site rental revenues. We expect that future increases in site rental revenues resulting from tenant additions on our towers will have a high incremental margin (percentage of revenue growth converted to gross margin) given the relatively fixed nature of the costs to operate our towers.  

In addition, the Global Signal Merger resulted in (1) an increase in general and administrative expenses in nominal dollars but a decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues as a result of synergies from operating a larger tower portfolio, (2) the vast majority of the increase in depreciation, amortization and accretion expense, (3) the integration costs for 2007, (4) additional interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs relating to the $1.8 billion of mortgage loans, and (5) our recording of income tax benefits resulting from the deferred tax liability recorded in purchase accounting that resulted in a change from a net deferred tax asset position to a net deferred tax liability position.  

Our net loss for 2007 increased by $180.9 million from 2006, predominately due to (1) the net impact of the previously mentioned Global Signal Merger, (2) a non-cash impairment charge of $75.6 million relating to our investment in FiberTower, and (3) asset write-down charges ($57.6 million) and restructuring charges ($3.1 million) related to Modeo totaling $60.7 million, offset by (4) growth in our site rental business on pre-Global Signal Merger towers.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Comparison of Operating Segments  

Our reportable operating segments for 2008 are (1) CCUSA, primarily consisting of our U.S. (including Puerto Rico) tower operations, and (2) CCAL, our Australian tower operations. Our financial results are reported to management and the board of directors in this manner.  

See note 18 to our consolidated financial statements for segment results and a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA (defined below).  

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate our operating performance and operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted (“Adjusted EBITDA”). Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). 

We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus restructuring charges (credits), asset write-down charges, integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion, interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, losses on purchases and redemptions of debt, net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps, impairment of available-for-sale securities, interest and other income (expense), benefit (provision) for income taxes, minority interests, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations and stock-based compensation expense (see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements). The calculation of Adjusted EBITDA for our operating segments is set forth in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP, and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is discussed further under “Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.”  

CCUSA—2007 and 2008. Net revenues for 2008 increased by $133.4 million, or 10%, from 2007. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in site rental revenues of $109.7 million, or 9%, for the same periods. This increase in site rental revenues was driven primarily by $82 million from new tenant additions across our entire portfolio inclusive of the impact of straight-line accounting for certain lease escalators. In addition to new tenant additions, our site rental revenues are influenced by various factors (in no particular order) including (1) escalations net of the impact of straight line accounting, (2) impact of straight line accounting from renewal of customer leases, (3) new towers acquired or constructed, (4) a full year of revenues from our Spectrum lease, and (5) cancelation of customer leases. See MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. We continue to derive a large portion of our site rental revenues and new tenant additions from the four largest carriers in the U.S. In addition to the four largest carriers, our 2008 net revenues and new tenant additions were also derived from second tier and emerging wireless customers such as those offering flat rate calling plans and wireless data technologies.  

Network services and other revenues for 2008 increased by $23.7 million, or 26%, from 2007. The increase in network services and other revenues was as a result of performing services on a larger portfolio of towers due to the Global Signal Merger. Global Signal did not operate a network services business, so the network services and other revenues performed on the Global Signal towers increased during 2007 and 2008 as we began marketing services for those towers. The network services business is typically non-recurring, and the volume of activity can vary significantly from period to period in relation to tenant additions on our towers.  

Site rental gross margins for 2008 increased by $98.3 million, or 12%, from 2007. The increase in the site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 9% increase in site rental revenues primarily driven by tenant additions. Site rental gross margins as a percentage of site rental revenues for 2008 increased by two percentage points from 2007 to 67% primarily as a result of the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate a tower. The $98.3 million incremental margin represents 90% of the related increase in site rental revenues.  

General and administrative expenses for 2008 increased by $7.3 million, or 6%, from 2007 but decreased to 9% of total net revenues from 10% of total net revenues. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges as discussed further in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in   

24  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the increase in stock-based compensation. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of the co-location of additional tenants on our towers as indicated by the decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues from 2007 to 2008.  

Adjusted EBITDA for 2008 increased by $102.9 million, or 14%, from 2007. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental business including the high incremental margin on the tenant additions.  

Integration costs for 2008 were $2.5 million compared to $25.4 million in 2007. The decrease resulted from the completion of the integration of the Global Signal tower portfolio during the first quarter of 2008. See “Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Acquisition of Global Signal” and notes 2 and 19 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2008 decreased by $13.6 million, or 3%, from 2007. The decrease resulted from towers acquired from Global Signal with short useful lives (as defined by GAAP) that were fully depreciated at December 31, 2007. Our tower assets are recorded at cost (estimated replacement cost for those acquired) and are depreciated using a useful life that is defined as the period equal to the shorter of 20 years or the term of the underlying ground lease (including renewal options). See “Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.”  

Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs for 2008 increased by $4.3 million, or 1%, from 2007. We made no material changes in our indebtedness during 2007 and 2008 other than the mortgage loans ($1.8 billion) that remained outstanding as obligations after the Global Signal Merger (on January 11, 2007) and the issuance of term loans ($650.0 million) in January and March 2007. Our weighted-average interest rate for 2008 was relatively consistent with 2007 as a result of virtually all of our debt having fixed rate coupons. See “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview.”  

In 2007 and 2008, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $75.6 million and $55.9 million, respectively, related to declines in the fair value of our investment in FiberTower that was deemed other-than-temporary. Any potential future write-downs are limited to the carrying value of our investment of $4.2 million as of December 31, 2008. See note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2008 was a benefit of $106.6 million compared to $95.3 million for 2007. The tax benefits for 2008 include tax benefits of $74.9 million resulting from the completion of the IRS examination of our U.S. federal tax return for 2004. The effective tax rate for 2008 differs from the federal statutory rate due predominately to income tax benefits resulting from the completion of the IRS examination and a full valuation allowance on our unrealized capital losses from our investment in FiberTower. See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Net loss for 2008 was $38.4 million inclusive of (1) non-cash impairment charges of $55.9 million related to our investment in FiberTower, (2) losses on the change in fair value of certain interest rate swaps of $37.9 million, and (3) tax benefits of $74.9 million resulting from the completion of an IRS examination. Net loss for 2007 was $214.9 million inclusive of (1) a non-cash impairment charge of $75.6 million related to our investment in FiberTower, (2) the asset write-down and restructuring charges related to Modeo totaling $60.7 million, and (3) integration costs related to the Global Signal Merger of $25.4 million. The improvement in net loss was predominately due to the incremental gross margin in our site rental business of $98.3 million and the impact of the previously mentioned charges and benefits.  

CCAL—2007 and 2008. The increases and decreases between 2007 and 2008 are inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars to U.S dollars for 2008 was approximately 0.85, an increase of 2% from approximately 0.84 for the same period in the prior year. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”  

Total net revenues for 2008 increased by $7.6 million, or 9%, from 2007. The increase in total net revenues was influenced by various factors, including tenant additions on our towers and towers acquired after the third quarter of 2007. Network services and other revenues and tenant additions were influenced by the continued development of several 3G networks in Australia. See “Item 1. Business—The Company—CCAL.”  

25  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Adjusted EBITDA for 2008 increased by $5.6 million, or 14%, from 2007. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the same factors that drove the increase in site rental revenues. More specifically, site rental gross margins increased by $5.0 million, or 10%, for 2008 from $49.7 million. The $5.0 million incremental margin represents 78% of the related increase in site rental revenues.  

Net income (loss) for 2008 was a loss of $10.5 million, an increase of $2.6 million from 2007. The increase in net loss was primarily driven by a $8.9 million increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs resulting predominately from an inter-company borrowing between segments, partially offset by the growth in the site rental business. The proceeds of the inter-company borrowing were primarily utilized to fund the capital return in May 2007 in order to increase the leverage of the CCAL business.  

CCUSA—2006 and 2007. Net revenues for 2007 increased by $576.3 million, or 79%, from 2006. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in site rental revenues of $570.9 million, or 89%, for the same period. This increase in site rental revenues was driven by (1) the towers acquired in connection with the Global Signal Merger, and to a lesser extent, (2) new tenant additions, and (3) the 474 towers acquired from Mountain Union. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. Although we continue to derive a large portion of our site rental revenues from the four largest carriers in the U.S., we have experienced an increase in tenant additions during 2007 from emerging wireless carriers and second tier carriers, such as those offering wireless data technologies and flat rate calling plans.  

Network services and other revenues for 2007 increased by $5.4 million, or 6%, from 2006. The increase in network services and other revenues was as a result of performing services on a larger portfolio of towers due to the Global Signal Merger. Global Signal did not operate a network services business, so the network services and other revenues performed on the Global Signal towers increased during each quarter of 2007 as we began marketing services for those towers. Exclusive of network services and other revenues derived from the Global Signal towers, network services and other revenues declined modestly from 2006 to 2007. The network services business is typically non-recurring, and the volume of activity can vary significantly from period to period in relation to tenant additions on our towers.  

Site rental gross margins for 2007 increased by $345.6 million, or 77%, from 2006. The increase in the site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 89% increase in site rental revenues primarily driven by the towers acquired in connection with the Global Signal Merger and, to a lesser extent, from tenant additions. Site rental gross margins as a percentage of site rental revenues for 2007 decreased by 4.2 percentage points from 2006 to 65% primarily as a result of the less mature Global Signal towers that have lower revenues per tower and higher ground rent expense as a percentage of revenues than our pre-Global Signal Merger towers. We believe the Global Signal towers have significant additional revenue and margin growth opportunities provided by potential future tenant additions on those towers.  

General and administrative expenses for 2007 increased by $33.8 million from 2006 but decreased to 10% of total net revenues from 13% of total net revenues. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges as discussed further below. The increase in general and administrative expenses in nominal dollars was primarily related to headcount additions and related employee costs as a result of the Global Signal Merger partially offset by cost reductions from the termination of the Modeo employees (see notes 17 and 19 to our consolidated financial statements). The decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues was driven by synergies from operating a larger tower portfolio as a result of the Global Signal Merger.  

Adjusted EBITDA for 2007 increased by $319.5 million, or 80%, from 2006. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the same factors that drove the increase of 89% in our site rental revenues including the towers acquired in connection with the Global Signal Merger and tenant additions.  

We recognized stock-based compensation expense from continuing operations of $14.9 million and $23.5 million, respectively, for 2006 and 2007. The primary reason for fluctuations in the stock-based compensation expense during 2006 to 2007 is (1) accelerated vesting of awards granted in 2004 and 2005 and (2) our grants in 2006 and 2007. During 2005, restricted stock granted during 2004 and 2005 accelerated vested based on the market performance of our common stock. This accelerated vesting resulted in the recognition of $15.2 million of expense in 2005 that was originally to be recognized over the original vesting period (through 2009 and 2010). In addition, during 2006 and 2007 we granted 1.2 million and 1.4 million shares, respectively, of restricted stock with grant date weighted-average requisite service periods of 2.5 and 2.1 years, respectively. See note 12 to our consolidated financial statements.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

In July 2007, we entered into a lease of our Spectrum. The Spectrum is leased to a venture formed by Harbinger Capital Partners Master Fund I, Ltd., Harbinger Capital Partners Special Situations Fund, L.P., Telcom Ventures, LLC and Columbia Capital LLC (“HHTC”) for a $13 million annual lease fee with an initial term from July 23, 2007 until October 1, 2013. As a result, we eliminated substantially all of the future Modeo operating and administrative expenses, which for 2007 were $4.0 million. In addition, for 2007, we recorded (1) site revenues of $5.7 million from the Spectrum lease, (2) asset write-down charges of $57.6 million as a result of the write-off of substantially all of our Modeo assets other than the Spectrum, and (3) restructuring charges of $3.1 million related to the termination of the Modeo employees. See notes 17and 19 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Integration costs for 2007 were $25.4 million and related to the Global Signal Merger. These integration costs included, among other things, expenses for retention bonus obligations with employees of the former Global Signal, costs for contracted employees directly related to the integration and stock-based compensation charges with respect to restricted stock awards assumed in the Global Signal Merger. See “Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Acquisition of Global Signal” and notes 2 and 19 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Depreciation, amortization and accretion for 2007 increased by $254.3 million, or 99%, from 2006. The vast majority of this increase was related to the depreciation and amortization attributable to property and equipment and intangible assets recorded in connection with the purchase price allocation for the Global Signal Merger. Our tower assets are recorded at cost (estimated replacement cost for those acquired) and are depreciated using a useful life that is defined as the period equal to the shorter of 20 years or the term of the underlying ground lease (including renewal options). See “Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.”  

Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs for 2007 increased by $188.0 million, or 118%, from 2006. The increase was primarily attributable to additional indebtedness. The components of the increase in indebtedness primarily include (1) the issuance of the tower revenue notes ($1.55 billion) in November 2006, (2) the mortgage loans ($1.8 billion) that remained outstanding as obligations after the Global Signal Merger, and (3) the issuance of term loans ($650.0 million) during the first half of 2007. This additional indebtedness was offset by our repayment of $1.0 billion of borrowings under a credit facility using proceeds of the $1.55 billion tower revenue notes. Exclusive of the mortgage loans, our net increase in debt during 2007 primarily related to (1) funding $550 million for the Global Signal Merger and (2) purchases of our common stock in 2007. See “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview.”  

In 2007, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $75.6 million related to a decline in the value of our investment in FiberTower that was deemed other-than-temporary.  

Benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2007 was a benefit of $95.3 million compared to a provision of $0.5 million for 2006. We recorded a deferred tax liability of $556.6 million as part of the allocation of the purchase price of the Global Signal Merger, which was offset in part by the reversal of our federal valuation allowance of $259.7 million. As a result, we (1) are no longer in a net deferred tax asset position, (2) are generally no longer recording a valuation allowance on net deferred tax assets because of our historical net operating losses, and (3) can generally record the benefit of tax impacts of our results in the statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss).  

Income from discontinued operations of $5.7 million for 2006 relates primarily to the reversal of liabilities previously established in conjunction with the sale of our former CCUK operations, as a result of the termination of related contingencies during 2006.  

Net income (loss) for 2007 was a loss of $214.9 million, compared to a loss of $37.0 million for 2006. The increased loss was primarily due to (1) the increases in depreciation, amortization and accretion and interest expense, all of which were predominately related to the Global Signal Merger, (2) a non-cash impairment charge of $75.6 million related to our investment in FiberTower, and (3) asset write-down charges ($57.6 million) and restructuring charges ($3.1 million) related to Modeo totaling $60.7 million, partially offset by (1) the increase in Adjusted EBITDA as a result of the towers acquired in the Global Signal Merger and growth in our site rental business and (2) our benefit for income taxes.  

27  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

CCAL—2006 and 2007. The increases and decreases between 2006 and 2007 are inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars to U.S. dollars for 2007 was approximately 0.84, an increase of 11% from approximately 0.75 for the same period in the prior year. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”  

Total net revenues for 2007 increased by $21.0 million, or 35%, from 2006. The increase in total net revenues was due to growth in site rental revenues primarily related to (1) tenant additions on our towers, (2) exchange rate fluctuations, (3) contractual escalations on existing leases with variable escalations, and (4) new towers acquired after the third quarter of 2006. See “Item 1. Business—The Company—CCAL.”  

Adjusted EBITDA for 2007 increased by $11.7 million, or 40%, from 2006. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the same factors that drove the increase in site rental revenues. More specifically, site rental gross margins increased by $13.3 million, or 37%, to 70% of site rental revenues, for 2007 from $36.4 million, or 69% of site rental revenues, for 2006. The $13.3 million incremental margin represents 71% of the related increase in site rental revenues.  

In May 2007, CCAL (our 77.6% majority-owned subsidiary) issued a capital return of approximately $166.0 million, including $37.2 million to the minority shareholders of CCAL. The capital return was funded by CCOC through an intercompany borrowing by CCAL. Upon issuance of the capital return, we recorded a reduction in additional paid-in capital of $8.9 million as a result of the capital return to the CCAL minority shareholders exceeding the carrying value of the minority interests in CCAL. The intercompany borrowing and related capital return was issued to increase the leverage of the CCAL business.  

Net income (loss) for 2007 was a loss of $7.9 million, an increase in the loss of $3.0 million from 2006. The increased net loss was primarily driven by a $9.1 million increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs predominately as a result of an intercompany borrowing between segments and the increase in stock-based compensation charges of $2.9 million, partially offset by the same factors that drove the improvement in Adjusted EBITDA (see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements).  

Impact of Inflation. Other than the towers acquired from Global Signal, the majority of our towers were acquired between 1999 and 2001; tower assets and related depreciation expense do not reflect the impact of inflation occurring subsequent to the acquisition of these towers. The impact of inflation on our results of operations for the 2006, 2007 and 2008 was not significant.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Overview  

General. Our site rental business is generally characterized by a stable cash flow stream generated by revenues under long-term contracts that should be recurring for the foreseeable future. Over the last five years, our cash from operations have exceeded our cash interest payments and sustaining capital expenditures and provided us with cash available for discretionary investments. We seek to allocate the cash produced by our operations in a manner that will enhance per share operating results. Given the current conditions in the credit markets, we currently expect to limit our discretionary investments and use the majority of our cash to purchase or repay our debt. Historically, we invested our available cash in discretionary investments such as those discussed in “Item 1. Business—Strategy,” which we expect to resume in the future depending upon the credit environment and availability of liquidity in the capital markets.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Liquidity Position. The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and notes 6 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Pro forma for the issuance of 9% senior notes in January 2009 and purchases of debt in January and February 2009. See “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities.”  

 (b) Exclusive of $152.9 million of restricted cash.  

 (c) As of February 17, 2009.  

Debt Maturities and Recent Events. Our debt and preferred stock maturities as of February 17, 2009 are summarized as follows:  

   •    We have $411.0 million of debt maturing by January 2010, including debt under our revolving credit facility ($158.0 million) and a mortgage loan ($246.5 million). We currently have sufficient liquidity to repay all of these short-term debt service obligations including our revolving credit facility.  

   •    In 2011 and 2014, our debt maturities include a mortgage loan ($1.46 billion) and a term loan ($606.1 million). We do not anticipate the need to access the capital markets to refinance our existing debt until February 2011 when the $1.46 billion mortgage loan matures, but we may access the capital markets sooner depending upon the state of the capital markets and our ability to obtain financing at commercially reasonable terms.  

   •    We are required to redeem all outstanding shares of our 6.25% convertible preferred stock in August 2012 for approximately $318.0 million.  

   •    Our tower revenue notes (totaling $3.45 billion) have final maturities in 2035 and 2036. However, if our tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates (June 2010—$1.9 billion or November 2011—$1.55 billion) then the interest rates increase by approximately 5% per annum and then substantially all of the cash flows of the subsidiaries issuing the tower revenue notes (Excess Cash Flow as defined in the tower revenue notes indenture) will be used to repay principal. The Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the tower revenue notes was nearly $350 million for the annualized quarter ended December 31, 2008, representing approximately two-thirds of our consolidated cash flows from operations for 2008.  

   •    Our 9% senior notes ($900 million) issued in January 2009 are due in 2015.  

In light of the global economic recession and the current challenging credit markets, we have taken the following actions to manage our debt maturities and build liquidity with cash flows from operations.  

   •    We plan to reduce discretionary capital expenditures in 2009 in order to increase liquidity available for debt service. Of the roughly $500 million of cash flows from operating activities that we currently expect to generate during full year 2009, we currently expect to use approximately $150 million of such cash flow on capital expenditures, although our aggregate capital expenditures may be greater than or less than this range depending upon several factors, including the availability of financing.  

   •    In January 2009, we issued 9% senior notes due in 2015 and received net proceeds of $796 million. While we are still evaluating the use of the proceeds from the 9% senior notes, which may be used for general corporate purposes, we currently expect to use most, if not all, of such proceeds for the purchase or repayment of certain of our existing debt. See “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities” for a further discussion of these 9% senior notes.  

   •    During January and February 2009, we purchased an aggregate $134.8 of our debt securities, consisting of $47.0 of mortgage loans due December 2009 and $87.8 million of mortgage loans due February 2011, using an aggregate $125.3 million of cash (excluding accrued interest). We expect to use cash on hand, including most, if not all, of the proceeds from our issuance of 9% senior notes in January 2009, and cash flows from operations to effect purchases or repayments of certain of our existing debt.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

These efforts to increase liquidity and purchase our debt are being undertaken to prudently manage our liquidity as a result of the global economic recession and the current credit environment. However, we plan on endeavoring to refinance the tower revenue notes and mortgage loans with new debt on or before their repayment dates. Our ability to obtain borrowings that are securitized by tower cash flows and are at commercially reasonable terms will depend on various factors, such as our ability to generate cash flows on our existing towers and the state of the capital markets. If we are unable to refinance our debt with similar instruments, we may explore other forms of financing, which may include other forms of debt or issuances of equity or equity related securities. See “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Factors Affecting Sources of Liquidity.”  

Long-term Strategy. Our long-term strategy contemplates funding our discretionary investments primarily with operating cash flows and, in certain instances, potential future debt financings and issuances of equity or equity related securities. Over the long-term, we may continue to increase our debt if we realize anticipated future growth in our operating cash flows in order to maintain debt leverage that we believe is appropriate to drive long-term stockholder value. The amount of future debt financings is influenced by such factors as (1) the availability of financing at attractive rates, particularly in light of the current economic and credit environment, (2) our belief in the potential long-term return of our previously mentioned discretionary investments, (3) self-imposed limits such as our targeted leverage ratio of generally five to seven times Adjusted EBITDA and interest coverage ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to interest expense of at least two times, and (4) our restrictive debt covenants, discussed further below.  

Summary Cash Flows Information  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities  

The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2008 of $162.6 million from 2007 was due primarily to the growth in our core site rental business. Net cash provided by operating activities is inclusive of prepayments for long-term easements and ground leases for land under our towers. These prepayments are part of our efforts to renegotiate and extend the terms of our interests in the land under our towers. We expect net cash provided by operating activities for 2009 will be less than 2008, primarily as a result of higher interest costs resulting from the 9% senior notes issued in 2009 offset by anticipated growth in our core site rental business. Changes in working capital, and particularly changes in deferred rental revenues, prepaid ground leases and accrued interest, can have a dramatic impact on our net cash from operating activities for interim periods, largely due to the timing of payments and receipts.  

Investing Activities  

Capital Expenditures. Our capital expenditures can be generally categorized as sustaining or discretionary. Sustaining capital expenditures include capitalized costs related to (1) maintenance activities on our towers, (2) vehicles, (3) information technology equipment, and (4) office equipment. Discretionary capital expenditures, which we commonly also refer to as “revenue-generating capital expenditures,” include (1) purchases of land under towers, (2) tower improvements in order to support additional site rentals, (3) the construction or purchase of towers, and (4) the construction of distributed antenna systems.   

30  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

A summary of our capital expenditures for 2007 and 2008 is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As previously mentioned, we expect to reduce our capital expenditures from recent levels in order to increase liquidity available for debt service. We expect these reductions to include our purchases of land, construction and purchase of towers and the construction of distributed antenna systems. We expect to continue to extend the terms of ground leases which requires substantially less liquidity than purchases of land. Given current capital constraints, we may seek alternative arrangements with third parties in order to continue discretionary investments including capital expenditures. Other than sustaining capital expenditures, which we expect to be approximately $25 million to $30 million for full year 2009, our capital expenditures are discretionary and are made with respect to activities we believe exhibit sufficient potential to improve our long-term results of operations on a per share basis. Such decisions are influenced by the availability and cost of capital and expected returns on alternative investments.  

Acquisition of Global Signal. See “Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Acquisition of Global Signal.”   

Financing Activities  

In light of the current challenges in the credit markets and consistent with our previously mentioned strategy to prudently manage liquidity, our financing activities for 2008 included purchases of common stock and additional borrowings at reduced levels from our past practices. However, we are still committed to our long-term strategy to allocate our capital to drive long-term stockholder value, which may include making discretionary investments such as purchases of our debt and common stock. The following is a summary of the significant financing transactions completed in 2008 and the beginning of 2009.  

9% Senior Notes. On January 27, 2009, CCIC issued $900 million principal amount of 9% senior notes due 2015 in a public offering. These 9% senior notes are general obligations of CCIC, which rank equally with all existing and future senior debt of CCIC. The 9% senior notes are effectively subordinated to all liabilities (including trade payables) of each subsidiary of ours. These 9% senior notes bear interest at a rate of 9.0% per annum, payable semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on July 15, 2009.  

The net proceeds from these 9% senior notes were $795.7 million inclusive of $86.3 million original issue discount and $18.0 million of fees. The effective yield of these 9% senior notes is approximately 11.3%, inclusive of the discount. We may use these net proceeds for general corporate purposes, including our anticipated purchases or repayments of our existing debt.  

At our option, we may redeem these 9% senior notes in whole or in part prior to January 15, 2013, by paying 100% of the principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, plus a “make whole” premium. We may also redeem some or all of these 9% senior notes on or after January 15, 2013, at the redemption prices set forth in the indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. In addition, until January 15, 2012 and subject to certain conditions, we may, at our option, redeem up to 35% of these 9% senior notes at the redemption price set forth in the indenture with the proceeds of certain equity offerings.  

The 9% senior notes contain restrictive covenants that are discussed in “Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Factors Affecting Sources of Liquidity.”  

31  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Debt Purchases. The following is a summary of our purchases of debt during January and February 2009. These debt purchases were made by CCIC because of restrictions upon the subsidiaries issuing the debt; as a result, the debt remains outstanding at our subsidiaries. We expect to continue to purchase or redeem our debt in the future.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Exclusive of accrued interest.  

Credit Agreement. In January 2007, CCOC entered into a credit agreement that provided a $250.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility. In January 2009, we amended the revolving credit facility to extend the maturity until January 2010 and reduce the total revolving commitment to $188 million. We paid an extension fee of $9.4 million, but our credit spreads were not impacted by this amendment. As of December 31, 2008, we had $169.4 million outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Availability of the revolving credit facility at any time is determined by certain financial ratios. We may use the availability under the revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes, which may include financing of capital expenditures, acquisitions, and purchases of our common or preferred stock. The revolving credit facility bears interest at prime rate or LIBOR plus a credit spread based on our consolidated leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted-average interest rate of the revolving credit facility was 2.5% (including the credit spread).  

For a further discussion of the revolving credit facility and the term loans, see note 6 to our consolidated financial statements and “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”  

Common Stock Activity. A summary of common stock activity in 2007 and 2008 is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

During 2007 and 2008, we purchased 21.0 million and 1.2 million shares of our common stock, respectively. We utilized $729.8 million and $44.7 million in cash, respectively, to affect these purchases and paid an average price per share of $34.86 and $36.90, respectively. See note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. See “Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Acquisition of Global Signal” for a discussion of common stock issued in the Global Signal Merger.  

During 2008, the holders converted $63.8 million of the 4% convertible senior notes into 5.9 million shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, there are no 4% convertible senior notes outstanding.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Preferred Stock Dividends. We have the option to pay dividends on our 6.25% convertible preferred stock in cash or shares of common stock (valued at 95% of the current market value of the common stock, as defined) (see “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities”). Since 2005 we have elected to pay the dividends in cash and expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. We are required to redeem all outstanding shares of our 6.25% convertible preferred stock on August 15, 2012 at a price equal to the liquidation preference plus accumulated and unpaid dividends. The shares of 6.25% convertible preferred stock are convertible, at the option of the holder, in whole or in part at any time, into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $36.875 per share of common stock. Under certain circumstances, we generally have the right to convert the 6.25% convertible preferred stock, in whole or in part, into 8.6 million shares of common stock if the price per share of our common stock equals or exceeds 120% of the conversion price or $44.25 for at least 20 trading days in any consecutive 30-day trading period.  

Interest Rate Swaps. We have used, and may continue to use when we deem prudent, interest rate swaps to manage and reduce our interest rate risk, including the use of interest rate swaps to hedge the variability in cash flows from changes in LIBOR on anticipated refinancing and outstanding variable rate debt. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of our use of interest rate swaps.  

Restricted Cash. Pursuant to the indenture governing the tower revenue notes and the loan agreements governing the mortgage loans, all rental cash receipts of the issuers of these debt instruments and their subsidiaries are restricted and held by an indenture trustee. The restricted cash in excess of required reserve balances is subsequently released to us in accordance with the terms of the indentures. See also notes 1 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Contractual Cash Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations, which relate primarily to our outstanding borrowings and ground lease obligations, as of December 31, 2008 after giving effect to (1) the extension of the revolving credit facility maturity to January 2010 from January 2009, (2) the purchases of debt in January and February 2009, and (3) the issuance of the 9% senior notes exclusive of the impact of using the proceeds to make future purchases or repayments of debt. The debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates on the tower revenue notes. See footnote (a).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) As previously discussed, if the tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates (June 2010 or November 2011) then the interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum and monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow of the Issuers of the tower revenue notes. The tower revenue notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates in 2035 and 2036 and include the impact of an assumed 5% increase in interest rate that would occur following the anticipated repayment dates but exclude the impact of monthly principal payments that would commence using Excess Cash Flow of the Issuers of the tower revenue notes. The annualized Excess Cash Flow of the Issuers is currently nearly $350 million.  

 (b) Amounts relate primarily to ground lease obligations for the land on which our towers reside, and are based on the assumption that payments will be made through the end of the period for which we hold renewal rights. See table below summarizing remaining terms to expiration.  

 (c) The dividends on the preferred stock can be paid in cash or common stock at our election. See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.  

 (d) Reflects the quarterly principal installments of $1.6 million on the term loans issued in 2007 and the remaining outstanding amount due in January 2014. Interest payments on the floating rate debt are based on estimated rates in effect during the first quarter of 2009 exclusive of the impact of our interest rate swaps.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 (e) Our interest rate swaps require cash settlement to or from us in the future. Amounts represent cash settlement values as of December 31, 2008. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.”  

 (f) The following items are in addition to the obligations disclosed in the above table:  

   •    We have a legal obligation to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements upon lease termination to remove towers or remediate the land upon which our towers reside. The cash obligations disclosed in the above table, as of December 31, 2008, are exclusive of estimated undiscounted future cash outlays for asset retirement obligations of approximately $1.8 billion. As of December 31, 2008, the net present value of these asset retirement obligations was approximately $53.8 million.  

   •    We are obligated under letters of credit to various landlords, insurers and other parties in connection with certain contingent retirement obligations under various tower land leases and certain other contractual obligations. The letters of credit were issued through one of CCUSA’s lenders in amounts aggregating $14.6 million and expire on various dates through August 2011.  

   •    We are obligated to pay or reimburse others for property taxes related to our towers. See note 15 to our consolidated financial statements.  

   •    We have unrecognized tax benefits of $3.2 million as of December 31, 2008. See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements.  

The following table summarizes as of December 31, 2008 the remaining terms to expiration (including renewal terms at our option) of (1) the ground leases, subleases, or licenses for the land on which approximately 17,900 of our towers reside and (2) agreements to manage approximately 700 towers owned by third parties where we had sublease agreements with the tower owner. In addition, we own in fee or have perpetual or long-term easements in the land on which approximately 5,500 of our towers reside (23% of total towers). See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Factors Affecting Sources of Liquidity  

Holding Companies. As holding companies, CCIC and CCOC will require distributions or dividends from their subsidiaries, or will be forced to use their remaining cash balances, to fund their debt. The terms of the current indebtedness of their subsidiaries allow them to distribute cash to their holding companies unless they experience a deterioration of financial performance.  

Compliance with Debt Covenants. Our debt obligations contain certain financial covenants with which CCIC or our subsidiaries must maintain compliance in order to avoid the imposition of certain restrictions. Various of our debt obligations also place other restrictions on CCIC or our subsidiaries, including the ability to incur debt and liens, purchase our securities, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets, undertake transactions with affiliates, make other investments and pay dividends. See note 6 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt covenants.  

The financial maintenance covenants under our credit agreement are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Pro forma for (1) 9% senior notes issued in January 2009 exclusive of the impact of using the proceeds to make future purchases or repayments of debt and (2) our debt purchases in January and February 2009.  

 (b) For consolidated CCOC, ratio of Consolidated Total Debt (as defined in the credit agreement) to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement) for the most recent completed quarter multiplied by four.  

 (c) For consolidated CCIC, ratio of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for the most recent completed quarter multiplied by four to Consolidated Pro forma Debt Service (as defined in the credit agreement).  

The 9% senior notes contain restrictive covenants with which we and our restricted subsidiaries must comply, subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications, including restrictions on our ability to incur incremental debt, issue preferred stock, guarantee debt, pay dividends, repurchase our capital stock, use assets as security in   

34  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 other transactions, sell assets or merge with or into other companies, and make certain investments. Certain of these covenants are not applicable if there is no event of default and if the ratio of the Company’s Consolidated Debt (as defined in the senior notes indenture) and to its Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flows (as defined in the senior notes indenture) is less than 7.0 to 1. Our Consolidated Debt to Adjusted Consolidated Cash Flow is 7.6 times, as of December 31, 2008 pro forma for (1) the 9% senior notes exclusive of the impact of using the proceeds to make future purchases or repayments of debt and (2) our debt purchases in January and February 2009. The 9% senior notes contain the previously mentioned restrictive covenants but do not contain any financial maintenance covenant that could result in default.  

Factors that are likely to determine our subsidiaries’ ability to comply with their current and future debt covenants include their (1) financial performance, (2) levels of indebtedness, and (3) debt service requirements. Given the current level of indebtedness of our subsidiaries, the primary risk of a debt covenant violation would be from a deterioration of a subsidiary’s financial performance. Should a covenant violation occur in the future as a result of a shortfall in financial performance (or for any other reason), we might be required to make principal payments earlier than currently scheduled and may not have access to additional borrowings under these facilities as long as the covenant violation continues. Any such early principal payments would have to be made from our existing cash balances or cash from operations. If our subsidiaries that issued the tower revenue notes and mortgage loans were to default on the debt, the trustee could seek to foreclose upon or otherwise convert the ownership of the securitized towers, in which case we could lose the towers and the revenues associated with the towers. We currently have no financial covenant violations; and based upon our current expectations, we believe our operating results will be sufficient to comply with our debt covenants. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Financial Performance of Our Subsidiaries. A factor affecting our continued generation of cash flows from operating activities is our ability to maintain our existing recurring site rental revenues and to convert those revenues into operating cash flows by efficiently managing our operating costs. Our ability to service (pay principal and cash interest) or refinance our current debt obligations and obtain additional debt will depend on our future financial performance, which, to a certain extent, is subject to various factors that are beyond our control as discussed further herein and in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

Levels of Indebtedness and Debt Service Requirements. Our ability to obtain cash financing in the form of debt instruments, preferred stock or common stock in the capital markets depends on, among other things, general economic conditions, conditions of the wireless industry, wireless carrier consolidation or network sharing, new technologies, our financial performance and the state of the capital markets. We anticipate refinancing the majority, if not all, of our debt and redeemable preferred stock within the next six years. There can be no assurances we will be able to effect this anticipated financing on commercially reasonable terms or on terms, including with respect to interest rates, as favorable as our current debt and preferred stock. Assuming we meet certain financial ratios, we have the ability under our debt instruments to incur additional indebtedness, and any additional indebtedness we incur could exacerbate our liquidity risks.  

If we are unable to refinance or renegotiate our debt, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate enough cash flows from operations or that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt, pay our obligations under our convertible preferred stock or fund our planned capital expenditures. In such an event, we could face substantial liquidity issues and might be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, or sell some of our assets to meet our debt payment obligations. Failure to refinance indebtedness when required could result in a default under such indebtedness. If our tower revenue notes are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates (June 2010 or November 2011) then the interest rates increase by approximately 5% per annum and Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the indenture) of the Issuers of the tower revenue notes will be used to repay principal resulting in a reduction in cash available for discretionary investments. In particular, CCIC and CCOC are holding companies with no operations of their own, and as such will require distributions or dividends from their subsidiaries to fund their debt. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

The current credit environment has resulted in a substantial widening of credit spreads in the market since the issuance of a majority of our existing debt. As we refinance our existing debt or borrow additional debt, changes in our credit spreads may impact our interest expense and interest coverage ratios.  

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements  

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Accounting and Reporting Matters  

Related Party Transactions  

See notes 11 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The following is a discussion of the accounting policies and estimates that we believe (1) are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and (2) require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The critical accounting policies and estimates for 2008 are not intended to be a comprehensive list of our accounting policies and estimates. See note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP, with no need for management’s judgment in their application. In other cases, management is required to exercise judgment in the application of accounting principles with respect to particular transactions.  

Revenue Recognition. Site rental revenues are recognized on a monthly basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the relevant lease or agreement with terms generally ranging from five to fifteen years. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, these revenues are recognized on a monthly basis, regardless of whether the payments from the customer are received in equal monthly amounts. If the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases) or rent free periods, the effect is recognized on a straight-line basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the agreement. When calculating our straight-line rental revenues, we consider all fixed elements of tenant leases escalation provisions, even if such escalation provisions also include a variable element. As a result of recognizing revenue on a straight-line basis, a portion of the revenue in a given period represents cash collected in other periods. For 2006, 2007 and 2008, the non-cash portion of our site rental revenues related to recognizing revenue on a straight-line basis amounted to approximately $20.5 million, $42.9 million and $40.3 million, respectively. See note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.  

We provide network services, such as antenna installations and subsequent augmentation, network design and site selection, site acquisition services, site development and other services, on a limited basis. Network services revenues are generally recognized under a method which approximates the completed contract method. Under the completed contract method, revenues and costs for a particular project are recognized in total at the completion date. When using the completed contract method of accounting for network services revenues, we must accurately determine the completion date for the project in order to record the revenues and costs in the proper period. For antenna installations, we consider the project complete when the customer can begin transmitting its signal through the antenna. We must also be able to estimate losses on uncompleted contracts, as such losses must be recognized as soon as they are known. The completed contract method is used for projects that require relatively short periods of time to complete (generally less than one year), such as our network services agreements and contracts. We do not believe that our use of the completed contract method for network services projects produces financial position and operating results that differ substantially from the percentage-of-completion method.  

Some of our arrangements with our customers call for the performance of multiple revenue-generating activities. Generally, these arrangements include both site rental and network services. In such cases, we determine whether the multiple deliverables are to be accounted for separately or on a combined basis. In order to be accounted for separately, the undelivered items must (1) have stand-alone value to the customer, (2) have reliably determinable fair value on a separate basis, and (3) have delivery which is probable and under our control. In addition, the delivered item must have stand-alone value to the customer. Allocation of recognized revenue in such arrangements is based on the relative fair value of the separately delivered items. We have generally determined that it is appropriate to account for antenna installation activities separately from the customer’s subsequent site rentals.  

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets. We allocate the purchase price of acquisitions to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Any purchase price in excess of the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. The fair value of certain of our assets and liabilities is determined by (1) using estimates of replacement costs for tangible fixed assets (such as towers) and (2) using discounted cash flow valuation methods for estimating identifiable intangibles (such as site rental contracts and above-market and below-market leases). The purchase price allocation requires subjective estimates that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements including the amount of depreciation, amortization and accretion expense. The determination of the final purchase price   

36  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 allocation could extend over several quarters resulting in the use of preliminary estimates that are subject to adjustment until finalized. During 2007, we completed the purchase price allocation for the Global Signal Merger and had no significant acquisitions in 2008.  

We are required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets for purposes of determining depreciation, amortization and accretion expense that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Depreciation expense for our property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of our various classes of tangible assets. The substantial portion of our property and equipment represents the cost of our towers which is depreciated with an estimated useful life equal to the shorter of 20 years or the term of the lease (including optional renewals) for the land under the tower. The useful life of our intangible assets are estimated based on the period for which the intangible asset will benefit us. Our intangible assets predominately consist of site rental contracts that generally are amortized over a 20 year useful life.  

We record the fair value of obligations to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements, pursuant to our ground leases, to remove towers or remediate the land upon which our towers reside. In determining the fair value of these asset retirement obligations we must make several subjective and highly judgmental estimates such as those related to: (1) timing of cash flows, (2) future costs and (3) discount rates. See notes 1 and 15 to our consolidated financial statements.  

We review the carrying values of property and equipment, intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. If the sum of the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) from the asset is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. Measurement of an impairment loss is based on the fair value of the asset. Our determination that an adverse event or change in circumstance has occurred will generally involve (1) a deterioration in an asset’s financial performance compared to historical results, (2) a shortfall in an asset’s financial performance compared to forecasted results, or (3) a change in strategy affecting the utility of the asset. Our measurement of the fair value of an impaired asset will generally be based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows.  

We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether adverse events or changes in circumstances have occurred. The annual test begins with goodwill and all intangible assets being allocated to applicable reporting units. Goodwill is then tested using a two-step process that begins with an estimation of fair value of the reporting unit using an income approach, which looks to the present value of expected future cash flows. The first step is a screen for potential impairment while the second step measures the amount of impairment if there is an indication from the first step that one exists. Our reporting units are the operating segments since segment management operates their respective tower portfolios as a single network. Our measurement of the fair value for goodwill is based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows of the reporting unit. The most important estimates for such calculations are the expected additions of new tenants on our towers, the terminal multiple for our projected cash flows, our weighted-average cost of capital and control premium.  

On October 1, 2008, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. The results of this test indicated that goodwill was not impaired at any of our reporting units. Despite the decline in our common stock price during the fourth quarter, our market capitalization was in excess of 80% above the aggregate carrying amount of the reporting units as of December 31, 2008. Future declines in our site rental business could result in an impairment of goodwill, property and equipment and intangible assets in the future. If impairment were to occur in the future, the calculations to measure the impairment could result in the write-off of some portion, to substantially all, of our goodwill, property and equipment and intangible assets.  

Interest Rate Swaps. We enter into interest rate swaps to manage and reduce our interest rate risk. The designation of our interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges requires judgment including with respect to the required assessment of the effectiveness of hedging relationships both at inception and on an on-going basis. We have designated certain of our interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of changes in fair value of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) and is recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. In contrast, the change in fair value of interest rate swaps related to hedge ineffectiveness and for those not designated as cash flow hedges is immediately marked to market in earnings.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Our interest rate swaps are predominately forward-starting. In assessing effectiveness of our forward starting swaps both at inception and on an on-going basis, we must make several highly subjective and judgmental estimates such as: (1) those related to the timing, amount, nature and probability of these future expected refinancings and (2) assessing whether it is probable that the counterparties to our swaps will not default. The state of the current credit markets makes these estimates regarding future refinancings especially difficult. As of December 31, 2008, we have estimated that it is probable the expected refinancings will occur. Changes in our assessment of hedge effectiveness including as result of changes in estimates regarding these future refinancings may result in prospectively discontinuing hedge accounting or the immediate reclassification of the current unrealized loss from AOCI to earnings.  

The fair value of our interest rate swaps is determined using the income approach and is predominately based on observable interest rate yield curves and, to a lesser extent, the contract counterparty’s credit risk and our non-performance risk. The determination of the credit risk input is highly subjective and is primarily based on credit default swap spreads including indexes of comparable securities and management’s knowledge of current credit spreads in the debt market. As of December 31, 2008, a 50 basis point change in our credit spread would change the fair value of our interest rate swaps by less than one percent.  

As of December 31, 2008, our outstanding forward-starting interest rate swaps had a combined notional amount of $5.3 billion and totaled $598.1 million on a settlement basis. In addition, we have two interest rate swaps with a combined notional amount of $625.0 million and which totaled $18.1 million on a settlement basis. As of December 31, 2008, we have recorded $435.2 million, net of tax, in AOCI related to interest rate swaps designated as hedges. During 2008, we recorded $22.2 million, net of tax, in earnings related to interest rate swaps not designated as hedges and $2.5 million, net of tax, related to hedge ineffectiveness.  

See also “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and notes 1, 6 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Deferred Income Taxes. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet related to events that impact our financial statements and tax returns in different periods. In order to compute these deferred tax balances, we first analyze the differences between the book basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities (referred to as “temporary differences”). These temporary differences are then multiplied by current tax rates to arrive at the balances for the deferred income tax assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided on deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realized. We recognize a tax position if it is more likely than not it will be sustained upon examination. The tax position is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.  

The change in our net deferred income tax balances during a period generally results in a deferred income tax provision or benefit in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income (loss). If our expectations about the future tax consequences of past events should prove to be inaccurate, the balances of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities could require significant adjustments in future periods. Such adjustments could cause a material effect on our results of operations for the period of the adjustment. See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements.  

Impact of Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted and Those Adopted in 2008  

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157 (“SFAS 157”), Fair Value Measurements, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. On January 1, 2008, we adopted the provisions of SFAS 157, with the exception of a one-year deferral of implementation for non-financial assets and liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis (at least annually). The requirements of SFAS 157 were applied prospectively. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 157, the interest rate swap fair value as of December 31, 2008 included $75.0 million related to the combined impact of counterparty and our credit risk. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of FAS 157 as of January 1, 2009 on our non-financial assets and liabilities that are not recognized or disclosed at fair value on a recurring basis.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 160 (“SFAS 160”), “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—an Amendment to Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51.” SFAS 160 amends Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 to establish accounting and reporting standards   

38  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. SFAS 160 clarifies that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. SFAS 160 requires consolidated net income to be reported at amounts that include the amounts attributable to both the parent and the noncontrolling interest. The provisions of SFAS 160 are effective for us as of January 1, 2009. We expect that the adoption of SFAS 160 will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Although we will prospectively record the income or losses applicable to the non-controlling interest of CCAL even if their share of the CCAL cumulative losses exceeds their equity interests.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141(R) (“SFAS 141(R)”), Business Combinations (revised 2007). SFAS 141(R) replaces Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (“SFAS 141”), Business Combinations. SFAS 141(R) establishes principles and requirements for recognizing and measuring identifiable assets and goodwill acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in an acquisition, at their fair value as of the acquisition date. SFAS 141(R) will change the accounting treatment of certain items, including (1) acquisition and restructuring costs will be generally expensed as incurred, (2) noncontrolling interests will be valued at fair value at the acquisition date, (3) acquired contingent liabilities will be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and subsequently measured at either the higher of such amount or the amount determined under existing guidance for non-acquired contingencies, and (4) changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date will affect provision for income taxes. The provisions of SFAS 141(R) are applied prospectively to our business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009. SFAS 141(R) may have a material impact on business combinations after adoption. The impact from application of SFAS 141(R) depends on the facts and circumstances of the business combinations after adoption.  

See note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of recently issued accounting standards and the related impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Non-GAAP Financial Measures  

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate the operating performance of our operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted, or Adjusted EBITDA. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA is set forth in “Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments.” Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and as used in the historical financial statements of Global Signal, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating income or loss, net income or loss, cash flows provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities or other income statement or cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP.  

We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because:  

   •    it is the primary measure used by our management to evaluate the economic productivity of our operations, including the efficiency of our employees and the profitability associated with their performance, the realization of contract revenue under our long-term contracts, our ability to obtain and maintain our customers and our ability to operate our site rental business effectively;  

   •    it is the primary measure of profit and loss used by management for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;  

   •    it is similar to the measure of current financial performance generally used in our debt covenant calculations;  

   •    although specific definitions may vary, it is widely used in the tower sector to measure operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, amortization and accretion, which can vary depending upon accounting methods and the book value of assets; and  

   •    we believe it helps investors meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our operations from (1) period to period and (2) to our competitors by removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA:  

   •    with respect to compliance with our debt covenants, which require us to maintain certain financial ratios including, or similar to, Adjusted EBITDA;  

   •    as the primary measure of profit and loss for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;  

   •    as a performance goal in employee annual incentive compensation;  

   •    as a measurement of operating performance because it assists us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as it removes the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results;  

   •    in presentations to our board of directors to enable it to have the same measurement of operating performance used by management;  

   •    for planning purposes, including preparation of our annual operating budget;  

   •    as a valuation measure in strategic analyses in connection with the purchase and sale of assets; and  

   •    in determining self-imposed limits on our debt levels, including the evaluation of our leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio.  

There are material limitations to using a measure such as Adjusted EBITDA, including the difficulty associated with comparing results among more than one company, including our competitors, and the inability to analyze certain significant items, including depreciation and interest expense, that directly affect our net income or loss. Management compensates for these limitations by considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with their analysis of net income (loss).  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk