Item 1A. Risk Factors   

You should carefully consider all of the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities.  

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, the majority, if not all, of which we anticipate refinancing or repaying within the next three years. In the event we do not repay or refinance such indebtedness, we could face substantial liquidity issues and might be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, or sell some of our assets to meet our debt payment obligations.  

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness (approximately $6.8 billion as of February 17, 2009), and we anticipate refinancing the majority, if not all, of this indebtedness and our preferred stock within the next three years. If our tower revenue notes, which were issued by our U.S. tower subsidiaries that comprised substantially all of our tower business prior to the Global Signal Merger and had an aggregate outstanding principal amount of $3.45 billion as of December 31, 2008, are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates (five years from their original issuances in 2005 and 2006), then the interest rates on those notes will increase substantially (by the greater of (1) an additional 5% per annum over their current rates or (2) the amount, if any, by which the sum of the following exceeds the note rate for a class of tower revenue notes: the yield to maturity on the applicable anticipated repayment date of the United States treasury security having a term closest to 10 years, plus 5%, plus the post-anticipated repayment date spread for such class of tower revenue notes) and monthly amortization payments will commence. If this occurs, then substantially all of the cash flows of those tower subsidiaries must be applied to repay principal of the tower revenue notes. As of February 17, 2009, our mortgage loans, which were issued by the Global Signal tower subsidiaries prior to the Global Signal Merger, in the aggregate principal amounts of $246.5 million and $1.46 billion, have contractual maturities in December 2009 and February 2011, respectively. If we fail to repay or refinance such mortgage loans when due, it would constitute an event of default under such mortgage loans, as well as some of our other indebtedness. We are also required to redeem all outstanding shares of our 6.25% convertible preferred stock in August 2012 for approximately $323.0 million, including accrued but unpaid dividends. There can be no assurances we will be able to effect these anticipated refinancings on commercially reasonable terms, or terms, including with respect to interest rates, as favorable as our current debt and preferred stock, or at all.  

In early 2007, a crisis began in the subprime mortgage sector, as a result of rising delinquencies and credit quality deterioration, and the conditions in the general credit markets have continued to deteriorate with widening credit spreads and a lack of liquidity, including certain debt markets being unavailable. In addition to a lack of liquidity in the general credit markets, the current credit crisis has resulted in a widening of credit spreads in the marketplace in general and for us specifically. This crisis together with the global economic recession have adversely impacted our access to capital, and there can be no assurances that the global economic recession or the liquidity crisis will not worsen or negatively impact the availability and cost of debt financing, including with respect to any refinancings of the obligations described above.  

If we are unable to refinance or renegotiate our debt, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate enough cash flows from operations or that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt, pay our obligations under our convertible preferred stock or fund our planned capital expenditures. In such an event, we   

8  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 could face substantial liquidity issues and might be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, or sell some of our assets to meet our debt payment obligations. Failure to refinance indebtedness when required could result in a default under such indebtedness. Assuming we meet certain financial ratios, we have the ability under our debt instruments to incur additional indebtedness, and any additional indebtedness we incur could exacerbate the risks described above. See the risk factor below concerning our obligations relating to our interest rate swaps.  

Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business, and the terms of our debt instruments limit our ability to take a number of actions that our management might otherwise believe to be in our best interests. In addition, if we fail to comply with our covenants, our debt could be accelerated.  

As a result of our need to repay and refinance debt in the current difficult credit markets, demands on our cash resources are higher than they otherwise would be, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

As a result of our substantial indebtedness:  

   •    we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions;  

   •    we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements or to refinance our existing indebtedness;  

   •    we are required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations (approximately $360.6 million of our total cash flows from operations for 2008) to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the available cash flow to fund other projects;  

   •    we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the industry;  

   •    we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry with less debt;  

   •    we may be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity or sell some of our assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations; and  

   •    we may be limited in our ability to take advantage of strategic business opportunities, including tower development and mergers and acquisitions.  

Currently we have debt instruments in place that limit in certain circumstances our ability to incur indebtedness, pay dividends, create liens, sell assets and engage in certain mergers and acquisitions. Our subsidiaries, under their debt instruments, are also required to maintain specific financial ratios. Our ability to comply with the financial ratio covenants under these instruments and to satisfy our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with the debt restrictions, we will be in default under those instruments, which in some cases would cause the maturity of substantially all of our long-term indebtedness to be accelerated. If our subsidiaries that issued the tower revenue notes and mortgage loans were to default on the debt, the trustee could seek to foreclose upon or otherwise convert the ownership of the securitized towers, in which case we could lose the towers and the revenues associated with the towers.  

CCIC and CCOC are holding companies and conduct all of their operations through their subsidiaries. Accordingly, CCIC’s and CCOC’s source of cash to pay interest and principal on their outstanding indebtedness and preferred stock is distributions relating to their ownership interests in their subsidiaries from the net earnings and cash flow generated by such subsidiaries or from proceeds of debt or equity offerings. Earnings and cash flow generated by their subsidiaries are first applied by such subsidiaries in conducting their operations, including the service of their respective debt obligations after which any excess cash flow generally may be paid to a holding company. However, their subsidiaries are legally distinct from the holding companies and, unless they guarantee such debt, have no obligation to pay amounts due on their debt or to make funds available to us for such payment.  

Our interest rate swaps are currently in a substantial liability position and will need to be cash settled within the next three years, which could adversely affect our financial condition.  

We have used interest rate swaps to hedge our interest rate risk related to variability in LIBOR, which could adversely affect our financial condition. As a result of our interest rate swaps we would not benefit from the recent declines in LIBOR if the declines remain when we will need to cash settle these obligations, generally on the anticipated issuance date of the forecasted transaction. As of February 17, 2009, our outstanding forward-starting interest rate swaps had a combined notional amount of $5.3 billion; and the liability on a settlement basis totaled   

9  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 $503.1 million on a settlement basis. In addition as of February 17, 2009, we have two interest rate swaps, with a combined notional amount of $625.0 million that will be settled in 2009 and would currently result in total payments by us of $17.4 million. See “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for the cash obligations by year of maturity, based on current interest rates and the yield curve in effect as of December 31, 2008, required to settle the forward-starting interest rate swaps.  

Our business depends on the demand for wireless communications and towers, and we may be adversely affected by any slowdown in such demand.  

Demand for our towers depends on the demand for antenna space from our customers, which, in turn, depends on the demand for wireless telephony and data services by their customers. The willingness of our customers to utilize our infrastructure, or renew existing leases on our towers, is affected by numerous factors, including:  

   •    consumer demand for wireless services;  

   •    availability and capacity of our towers and the land under those towers;  

   •    location of our towers and alternative towers;  

   •    financial condition of our customers, including their availability and cost of capital;  

   •    willingness of our customers to maintain or increase their capital expenditures;  

   •    increased use of network sharing, roaming, joint development, or resale agreements by our customers;  

   •    mergers or consolidations among our customers;  

   •    governmental regulations, including local and state restrictions on the proliferation of towers;  

   •    cost of constructing towers;  

   •    technological changes, including those affecting (1) the number or type of towers or other communications sites needed to provide wireless communications services to a given geographic area and (2) the obsolescence of certain existing wireless networks; and  

   •    our ability to efficiently satisfy our customers’ service requirements.  

A slowdown in demand for wireless communications or our towers may negatively impact our revenues or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.  

A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers, and the loss, consolidation or financial instability of, or network sharing among, any of our limited number of customers may materially decrease revenues.  

For 2008, approximately 72% of our consolidated revenues was derived from Sprint Nextel, AT&T, Verizon Wireless and T-Mobile, which represented 23%, 19%, 18% and 12%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues. The loss of any one of our large customers as a result of bankruptcy, insolvency, consolidation, merger with other customers of ours or otherwise may materially decrease our revenues and have other adverse effects on our business. We cannot guarantee that the leases (including management agreements) with our major wireless carriers will not be terminated or that these carriers will renew such agreements. See also “Item 1. Business—The Company.”  

Consolidation among our customers may result in duplicate or overlapping parts of networks, which may result in a reduction of sites and have a negative effect on revenues and cash flows.  

Consolidation among our customers will likely result in duplicate or overlapping parts of networks, which may result in a reduction of cell sites and impact revenues from our towers. In addition, consolidation may result in a reduction in such customers’ future capital expenditures in the aggregate because their expansion plans may be similar. In the last several years, certain of our larger carrier customers have merged, including Cingular Wireless (now known as AT&T) with AT&T Wireless in October 2004 and Sprint with Nextel in August 2005. Any industry consolidation could decrease the demand for our towers, which in turn may result in a reduction in our revenues and cash flows.  

Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  

Future sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of common stock or other equity related securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of February 17, 2009, we had 288.7 million shares   

10  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 of common stock outstanding. In addition, we reserved (1) 15.6 million shares of common stock for future issuance under our various stock compensation plans and (2) 8.6 million shares of common stock for the conversion of our outstanding convertible preferred stock. If conditions in the credit markets do not improve, we may face liquidity issues and might be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities which may cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly.  

In addition, a small number of stockholders own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. If any one of these stockholders, or any group of our stockholders, sells a large quantity of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell a large quantity of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may significantly decline.  

A wireless communications industry slowdown may materially and adversely affect our business (including reducing demand for our towers and network services) and the business of our customers.  

In past years, the wireless communications industry has periodically experienced significant general slowdowns which negatively affected the factors described in these risk factors, influencing demand for tower space and network services. Similar slowdowns in the future may reduce consumer demand for wireless services or negatively impact the debt and equity markets, thereby causing carriers to delay or abandon implementation of new systems and technologies. The global economic recession is predicted by many to continue and perhaps worsen during 2009. There can be no assurances that such a difficult economic environment will not adversely impact the wireless communications industry, which may materially and adversely affect our business, including by reducing demand for our towers and network services. A wireless communications industry slowdown may result in the write-off of some or all of our goodwill and our inability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards.  

As a result of competition in our industry, including from some competitors with significantly more resources or less debt than we have, we may find it more difficult to achieve favorable rental rates on our towers.  

We face competition for site rental customers from various sources, including:  

   •    other independent tower owners;  

   •    wireless carriers that own and operate their own towers and lease antenna space to other wireless communication companies;  

   •    alternative facilities including rooftops, distributed antenna systems, broadcast towers and utility poles; and  

   •    new alternative deployment methods.  

Wireless carriers that own and operate their own tower portfolios are generally substantially larger and have greater financial resources than we have. Competition for tenants on towers may adversely affect rental rates and revenues.  

New technologies may significantly reduce demand for our towers and negatively impact our revenues.  

Improvements in the efficiency of wireless networks could reduce the demand for our towers. For example, signal combining technologies that permit one antenna to service multiple frequencies and, thereby, multiple customers, may reduce the need for our towers. In addition, other technologies, such as wireless mesh networks, voice-over-Wi-Fi, femtocells, satellite transmission systems (such as low earth orbiting), and distributed antenna systems, may, in the future, serve as substitutes for or alternatives to leasing that might otherwise be anticipated or expected on our towers had such technologies not existed. Any significant reduction in tower leasing demand resulting from the previously mentioned technologies or other technologies may negatively impact our revenues or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.  

New wireless technologies may not deploy or be adopted by customers as rapidly or in the manner projected.  

There can be no assurances that 3G, 4G, wireless data services such as e-mail, internet and mobile video, or other new wireless technologies will be introduced or deployed as rapidly or in the manner projected by the wireless or broadcast industries. In addition, demand and customer adoption rates for such new technologies may be lower or slower than anticipated for numerous reasons. As a result, growth opportunities and demand for our towers as a result of such technologies may not be realized at the times or to the extent anticipated.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

If we fail to retain rights to the land under our towers, our business may be adversely affected.  

Our real property interests relating to the land on which our towers reside consist primarily of leasehold and sub-leasehold interests, fee interests, easements, licenses and rights-of-way. A loss of these interests may interfere with our ability to conduct our business and generate revenues. For various reasons, we may not always have the ability to access, analyze and verify all information regarding titles and other issues prior to completing an acquisition of towers. Further, we may not be able to renew ground leases on commercially viable terms. Our ability to retain rights to the land on which our towers reside depends on our ability to renegotiate and extend the terms of the ground leases, subleases and licenses relating to the land on which our towers reside or purchase the land on which such towers reside. Approximately 11% of our towers are on land where our property interests in such land have a final expiration date of less than ten years. Our inability to retain rights to the land on which our towers reside may have a material adverse effect on us.  

If we are unable to raise capital in the future when needed, we may not be able to fund future growth opportunities.  

We may need additional sources of debt or equity capital in the future to fund growth opportunities, including other alternatives to funding discretionary capital expenditures given the global economic recession and current capital constraints. Additional financing may be unavailable, may be prohibitively expensive, or may be restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness. Additional sales of equity securities would dilute our existing stockholders. If we are unable to raise capital when our needs arise, we may not be able to fund future growth opportunities.  

Our lease relating to our Spectrum has certain risk factors different from our core tower business, including that the Spectrum lease may not be renewed or continued, that the option to acquire the Spectrum license may not be exercised, and that the Spectrum may not be deployed, which may result in the revenues derived from the Spectrum being less than those that may otherwise have been anticipated.  

We entered into a lease as lessor relating to the Spectrum rights we acquired in 2003 pursuant to an FCC license. Our Spectrum lease has an initial term for a $13 million annual lease fee beginning July 23, 2007 until October 1, 2013. Upon the expiration of the initial term of the lease, the lessee will have the right to acquire the Spectrum for $130 million (with a consumer price index adjustment from July 2007) or to renew the lease for a period of up to ten years on the same terms, subject to the annual lease fee increasing to $14.3 million. The lessee’s right to renew the lease or acquire the Spectrum following the initial term is subject to FCC license renewal and approval, which may not be obtained. In the event that the lessee defaults on the Spectrum lease, that the option to acquire the Spectrum license or renew the Spectrum lease is not exercised, or that the Spectrum is not deployed, the revenues derived from the Spectrum may be substantially less than anticipated.  

If we fail to comply with laws or regulations which regulate our business and which may change at any time, we may be fined or even lose our right to conduct some of our business.  

A variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations apply to our business. Failure to comply with applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties or require us to assume indemnification obligations or breach contractual provisions. We cannot guarantee that existing or future laws or regulations, including state and local tax laws, will not adversely affect our business, increase delays or result in additional costs. These factors may have a material adverse effect on us.  

Our network services business has historically experienced significant volatility in demand, which reduces the predictability of our results.  

The operating results of our network services business for any particular period may vary significantly and should not necessarily be considered indicative of longer-term results for this activity. In the foreseeable future, network services revenues may decline as a percentage of our total revenues due to our focus on our core rental business, increased competition or other factors. The global economic recession is predicted by many to continue and perhaps worsen during 2009. There can be no assurances that such a difficult economic environment will not adversely impact our network services business.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

If radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets or equipment on our towers are demonstrated to cause negative health effects, potential future claims could adversely affect our operations, costs and revenues.  

The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years. We cannot guarantee that claims relating to radio frequency emissions will not arise in the future or that the results of such studies will not be adverse to us.  

Public perception of possible health risks associated with cellular and other wireless communications may slow or diminish the growth of wireless companies, which may in turn slow or diminish our growth. In particular, negative public perception of, and regulations regarding, these perceived health risks may slow or diminish the market acceptance of wireless communications services. If a connection between radio emissions and possible negative health effects were established, our operations, costs and revenues may be materially and adversely affected. We currently do not maintain any significant insurance with respect to these matters.  

Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and operative agreements and domestic and international competition laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or for us to acquire control of a third party, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.  

We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts and may reduce the market value of our common stock. Our anti-takeover provisions include:  

   •    a staggered board of directors;  

   •    the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock without approval of the holders of our common stock; and  

   •    advance notice requirements for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings.  

Our by-laws permit special meetings of the stockholders to be called only upon the request of our Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the board of directors, and deny stockholders the ability to call such meetings. Such provisions, as well as the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.  

In addition, domestic and international competition laws may prevent or discourage us from acquiring towers or tower networks in certain geographical areas or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.  

We are exposed to counterparty risk through our interest rate swaps and a counterparty default could adversely affect our financial condition.  

As a consequence of the global financial crisis, the credit worthiness of certain of our contracted counterparties (particularly financial institutions) has deteriorated; and therefore, we are exposed to an increased risk that one or more of the counterparties to our hedging transactions could default on their obligations to us, which could adversely affect our financial condition. For example, a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. (“Lehman Brothers”) that is the counterparty for two of our interest rate swaps filed for bankruptcy in October 2008. These two interest rate swaps had a combined notional value of $475 million and represented a liability to us of approximately $46.3 million as of December 31, 2008. Our arrangements with Lehman Brothers are subject to the resolution of Lehman’s bankruptcy proceedings and may result in an assignment of our arrangement by Lehman to a third party. While we have certain rights to object to an assignment, the outcome of such proceedings is uncertain. We also have interest rate swaps with other financial institutions, including Morgan Stanley and the Royal Bank of Scotland PLC. To the extent the financial crisis and LIBOR increases cause our credit exposure to contracted counterparties to become an asset, such increased exposure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  

13  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

We may be adversely effected by exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our operations in Australia.  

Our Australian operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For 2008, approximately 6% of our consolidated net revenues were denominated in Australian dollars. We have not historically engaged in significant hedging activities relating to our Australian operations, and we may suffer future losses as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.  

Available Information and Certifications  

We maintain an internet website at www.crowncastle.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K (and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are made available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://investor.crowncastle.com/sec.cfm as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  

In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, business practices and ethics policy and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee are available through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://www.crowncastle.com/investor/corpgovernance.asp, and such information is also available in print to any stockholder who requests it.  

We submitted the Chief Executive Officer certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) Listed Company Manual, relating to compliance with the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards, to the NYSE on May 30, 2008 with no qualifications. We have included the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

 Item 2. Properties