Item 1A.   Risk Factors    

In the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. These risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our most significant risks are set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process seeks to identify and address significant risks. Our ERM process uses the integrated risk framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) to assess, manage, and monitor risks. We believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our growth and performance strategy. Our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoiding risks. We can mitigate risks and their impact on the company only to a limited extent.  

A team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. Our Board of Directors provides oversight of the ERM process and reviews significant identified risks. The Audit Committee also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. Our other Board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters.  

Our goal is to proactively manage risks in a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareowner value. However, the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other risks and uncertainties could cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results and could adversely affect our business and financial condition.  

Adverse changes in business or industry conditions and volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may result in decreases in our revenues and profitability.  

We are subject to macroeconomic cycles and when recessions occur, we may experience reduced orders, payment delays, supply chain disruptions or other factors as a result of the economic challenges faced by our customers, prospective customers and suppliers.  

Demand for our products is sensitive to changes in levels of industrial production and the financial performance of major industries that we serve. As economic activity slows, credit markets tighten, or sovereign debt concerns linger, companies tend to reduce their levels of capital spending, which could result in decreased demand for our products.  

Our ability to access the credit markets, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and current market conditions. If our access to credit, including the commercial paper market, is adversely affected by a change in market conditions or otherwise, our cost of borrowings may increase or our ability to fund operations may be reduced.  

We generate a substantial portion of our revenues from international sales and are subject to the risks of doing business in many countries.  

Approximately 51 percent of our revenues in 2011 were outside of the U.S. Future growth rates and success of our business depend in large part on growth in our international sales. Numerous risks and uncertainties affect our international operations. These risks and uncertainties include increased financial, legal and operating risks, such as political and economic instability, compliance with existing and future laws, regulations and policies, including those related to tariffs, investments, taxation, trade controls, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. In addition, we are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates.  

New legislative and regulatory actions could adversely affect our business.  

Legislative and regulatory action may be taken in the various countries and other jurisdictions where we operate that may affect our business activities in these countries or may otherwise increase our costs to do business. For example, we are increasingly required to comply with various environmental and other material, product, certification, labeling and customer requirements. These requirements could increase our costs and could potentially have an adverse effect on our ability to ship our products into certain jurisdictions.  

7   
An inability to respond to changes in customer preferences could result in decreased demand for our products.  

Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate and offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve. Developing new products requires high levels of innovation and the development process is often lengthy and costly. If we are not able to anticipate, identify, develop and market products that respond to changes in customer preferences, demand for our products could decline.  

Failures or security breaches of our products or information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our business.  

We rely heavily on information technology (IT) both in our products, solutions and services for customers and in our enterprise IT infrastructure in order to achieve our business objectives. Government agencies and security experts have warned about growing risks of hackers, cyber-criminals and other attacks targeting every type of IT system including industrial control systems such as those we sell and serve and corporate enterprise IT systems.  

Our portfolio of hardware and software products, solutions and services and our enterprise IT systems may be vulnerable to damage or intrusion from a variety of attacks including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs that access them. These attacks have sometimes been successful.  

Despite the precautions we take, an intrusion or infection of software, hardware or a system that we sold or serviced could result in the disruption of our customers’ business, loss of proprietary or confidential information, or injuries to people or property. Similarly, an attack on our enterprise IT system could result in theft or disclosure of trade secrets or other intellectual property or a breach of confidential customer or employee information. Any such events could have an adverse impact on revenue, harm our reputation, cause us to incur legal liability and cause us to incur increased costs to address such events and related security concerns.  

We are implementing a global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system that is resulting in redesigned processes, organization structures and a common information system. Significant roll-outs of the system occurred at our U.S. locations and certain non-U.S. locations in 2007 to 2011, and are scheduled to continue at additional locations in 2012 and beyond. As we continue to implement new systems, they may not perform as expected. This could have an adverse effect on our business.  

There are inherent risks in our solutions businesses.  

Risks inherent in the sale of solutions include assuming greater responsibility for project completion and success, defining and controlling contract scope, efficiently executing projects, and managing the quality of our subcontractors. If we are unable to manage and mitigate these risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected.  

Our industry is highly competitive.  

We face strong competition in all of our market segments in several significant respects. We compete based on breadth and scope of our product portfolio and solution and service offerings, technology differentiation, product performance, quality of our products and services, knowledge of integrated systems and applications that address our customers’ business challenges, pricing, delivery and customer service. The relative importance of these factors differs across the markets and product areas that we serve. We seek to maintain acceptable pricing levels by continually developing advanced technologies for new products and product enhancements and offering complete solutions for our customers’ business problems. If we fail to keep pace with technological changes or to provide high quality products and services, we may experience price erosion, lower revenues and margins. We expect the level of competition to remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability.  

We face the potential harms of natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflicts or other disruptions to our operations.  

Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability and the actions taken by governments could cause damage to or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create economic instability. Although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products.  

8   
Intellectual property infringement claims of others and the inability to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and our customers.  

Others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. We frequently provide a limited intellectual property indemnity in connection with our terms and conditions of sale to our customers and in other types of contracts with third parties. Indemnification payments and legal costs to defend claims could be costly.  

In addition, we own the rights to many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are important to our business. The inability to enforce our intellectual property rights may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Expenses related to enforcing our intellectual property rights could be significant.  

We must successfully defend any claims from taxing authorities to avoid an adverse effect on our tax expense and financial position.  

We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the ambiguity of tax laws among those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims by taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position.  

Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel while appropriately managing costs related to employee benefits.  

Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management team and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. One important aspect of attracting and retaining qualified personnel is continuing to offer competitive employee retirement and heath care benefits.  

The amount of expenses we record for our defined benefit pension plans depends on factors such as changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets. Significant decreases in market interest rates or the value of plan assets would increase our expenses. Expenses related to employer-funded health care benefits continue to increase as well.  

Increasing employee benefit costs or the failure to attract and retain members of our management team and key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.  

Potential liabilities and costs from litigation (including asbestos claims and environmental remediation) could reduce our profitability.  

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business, including those pertaining to product liability, safety and health, employment, contract matters and environmental remediation.  

We have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain of our products many years ago. Our products may also be used in hazardous industrial activities, which could result in product liability claims. The uncertainties of litigation (including asbestos claims) and the uncertainties related to the collection of insurance coverage make it difficult to predict the ultimate resolution.  

Our operations are subject to regulation by various environmental regulatory authorities concerned with the impact of the environment on human health, the limitation and control of emissions and discharges into the air, ground and waters, the quality of air and bodies of water, and the handling, use and disposal of specified substances. Environmental laws and regulations can be complex and may change. Our financial responsibility to clean up contaminated property or for natural resource damages may extend to previously owned or used properties, waterways and properties owned by unrelated companies or individuals, as well as properties that we currently own and use, regardless of whether the contamination is attributable to prior owners. We have been named as a potentially responsible party at cleanup sites and may be so named in the future, and the costs associated with these current and future sites may be significant.  

We have, from time to time, divested certain of our businesses. In connection with these divestitures, certain lawsuits, claims and proceedings may be instituted or asserted against us related to the period that we owned the businesses, either because we agreed to retain certain liabilities related to these periods or because such liabilities fall upon us by operation of law. In some instances, the divested business has assumed the liabilities; however, it is possible that we might be responsible to satisfy those liabilities if the divested business is unable to do so.  

9   
A disruption to our distribution channel could reduce our revenues.  

In the United States and Canada, approximately 90 percent of our sales are through distributors. In certain other countries, the majority of our sales are also through a limited number of distributors. While we maintain the right to appoint new distributors, any unplanned disruption to our existing distribution channel could adversely affect our revenues. A disruption could result from the sale of a distributor to a competitor, financial instability of a distributor, or other events.  

We rely on vendors to supply equipment and components, which creates certain risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business.  

Our business requires that we buy equipment and components, including finished products, which may include computer chips and commodities such as copper, aluminum and steel. Our reliance on suppliers of these items involves certain risks, including:  

   •   poor quality can adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our products;    

   •   the cost of these purchases may change due to inflation, exchange rates, commodity market volatility or other factors;    

   •   we may not be able to recover any increase in costs for these purchases through price increases to our customers; and    

   •   a shortage of components, commodities or other materials could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and ability to make timely delivery.    

Any of these uncertainties could adversely affect our profitability and ability to compete. We also maintain several single-source supplier relationships, because either alternative sources are not available or the relationship is advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. Unavailability or delivery delays of single-source components or products could adversely affect our ability to ship the related products in a timely manner. The effect of unavailability or delivery delays would be more severe if associated with our higher volume and more profitable products. Even where substitute sources of supply are available, qualifying the alternate suppliers and establishing reliable supplies could cost more or could result in delays and a loss of revenues.  

Our competitiveness depends on successfully executing our globalization and cost productivity initiatives.  

Our globalization strategy includes localization of our products and services to be closer to our customers and identified growth opportunities. Localization of our products and services includes expanding our capabilities, including supply chain and sourcing activities, product design, manufacturing, engineering, marketing and sales and support. These activities expose us to risks, including those related to political and economic uncertainties, transportation delays, labor market disruptions, and challenges to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we continue to invest in initiatives to reduce our cost structure. The failure to achieve our objectives on these initiatives could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.  

Risks associated with acquisitions could have an adverse effect on us.  

We have acquired, and will continue to acquire, businesses in an effort to enhance shareowner value. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including:  

   •   difficulties in integrating the acquired business, retaining the acquired business’ customers, and achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, access to technologies, cost savings and increases in geographic or product presence, in the desired time frames;    

   •   loss of key employees of the acquired business;    

   •   difficulties implementing and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; and    

   •   diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns.    

Future acquisitions could result in debt, dilution, liabilities, increased interest expense, restructuring charges and amortization expenses related to intangible assets.  

10   
 Item 1B.   Unresolved Staff Comments    

None.   

 Item 2.   Properties