Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk and Credit Risk

Certain of the Company’s revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets.

Interest Rate Risk and Credit Risk

The Company has historically managed its net exposure to interest rate changes by utilizing a mixture of variable and fixed rate borrowings to finance the Company’s asset base. In February 2011, the Company entered into two 3.5-year interest rate swaps to hedge changes in the fair value of the first $250 million of its 5.375% senior notes due in 2014. Under the terms of the swaps, the counter-parties will pay the Company a fixed rate of 5.375% and the Company will pay interest at a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a fixed spread of 3.726%. The swaps are designated as fair value hedging instruments and are deemed to be perfectly effective in accordance with applicable accounting guidance.

Interest income generated from the Company’s cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates.

The Company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 8 basis points, over the course of the year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $3 million.

In addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. To minimize this risk, the Company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a Board approved investment policy. The policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. The Company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. The majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds.

Foreign Currency Risk

The translated values of revenue and expense from the Company’s international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. The non-U.S. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 55% of total revenue. We periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the Company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. As such, the U.S. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the U.S. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. The Company estimates that a 10% movement of major foreign currencies (Euro, Sterling, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar) in the same direction against the U.S. dollar that held constant over the course of the year would increase or decrease full year operating income by approximately $47 million.

45

Equity Price Risk

The Company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds that invest primarily in financial services companies. Publicly traded investments of $18 million are classified as available for sale. Non-publicly traded investments of $14 million are accounted for using the cost method and $89 million are accounted for using the equity method. The investments that are classified as available for sale or that are not publicly traded are subject to risk of changes in market value, which if determined to be other than temporary, could result in realized impairment losses. The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements.

Other

A number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report.

46

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA