PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

“Newell Rubbermaid” or the “Company” refers to Newell Rubbermaid Inc. alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires.

Website Access to Securities and Exchange Commission Reports

The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellrubbermaid.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

GENERAL

Newell Rubbermaid is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that help people flourish every day, where they live, learn, work and play. The Company’s products are marketed under a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Rubbermaid®, Levolor®, Goody®, Calphalon®, Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Parker®, Waterman®, Irwin®, Lenox®, Graco®, Aprica® and Dymo®. 

On January 1, 2012, the Company, as part of Project Renewal, implemented changes to its organizational structure that resulted in the consolidation of the Company’s three operating groups into two and the consolidation of its 13 global business units (“GBUs”) into nine. One of the two operating groups was consumer-facing (“Newell Consumer”), while the other was commercial-facing (“Newell Professional”). In addition, while not an operating group, the Baby & Parenting GBU was treated as a stand-alone operating segment.

In October 2012, the Company committed to an expansion of Project Renewal, designed to further simplify and align the business around two key activities – Brand & Category Development and Market Execution & Delivery. As part of the expanded program, the Company’s Consumer and Professional groups were eliminated and the Company’s nine GBUs were streamlined into six business segments. The six business segments and the key brands included in each of the six business segments are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The actions taken by the Company in 2012 are intended to simplify the organization and free up resources to invest in growth initiatives and strengthened capabilities. These changes are considered key enablers to building a bigger, faster-growing, more global and more profitable Newell Rubbermaid.

Refer to the forward-looking statements section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the Company’s forward-looking statements included in this report.

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES

Newell Rubbermaid’s vision is to become a global company of Brands That Matter™ and great people, known for best-in-class results. The Company is committed to building consumer-meaningful brands through understanding the needs of consumers and using those insights to create innovative, highly differentiated product solutions that offer superior performance and value. 

The transformation that began several years ago building Brands That Matter™ and insight-driven innovations that win in the marketplace has created a solid foundation. The Company now has a stronger and more tightly focused portfolio of leading brands with a margin structure that allows for brand investment. The Company has devised its new Growth Game Plan, which is the strategy the Company is implementing to fulfill its ambition to build a bigger, faster-growing, more global and more profitable company. 

3
The Growth Game Plan encompasses the following aspects:

Business Model

◦A brand-led business with a strong home in the United States and global ambition.

◦Consumer brands that win at the point of decision through excellence in performance, design and innovation.

◦Professional brands that win the loyalty of the chooser by improving the productivity and performance of the user.

◦Collaboration with our partners across the total enterprise in a shared commitment to growth and creating value.

◦Delivering competitive returns to shareholders through consistent, sustainable and profitable growth.

Where To Play

◦Win Bigger — Deploying resources to businesses and regions with higher growth opportunities through investments in innovation and geographic expansion.

◦Win Where We Are — Optimizing the performance of businesses and brands in existing markets by investing in innovation to increase market share and reducing structural spend within the existing geographic footprint.

◦Incubate For Growth — Investing in businesses that have unique opportunities for growth, with a primary focus on businesses that are in the early stages of the business cycle.

5 Ways To Win

◦Make The Brands Really Matter — Sharpening brand strategies on the highest impact growth levers and partnering to win with customers and suppliers.

◦Build An Execution Powerhouse — Realigning the customer development organization and developing joint business plans for new channel penetration and broader distribution.

◦Unlock Trapped Capacity For Growth — Delivering savings from ongoing restructuring projects, working capital reductions and simplification of business processes.

◦Develop The Team For Growth — Driving a performance culture aligned to the business strategy and building a more global perspective and talent base.

◦Extend Beyond Our Borders — Accelerating investments and growth in emerging markets.

During 2012, the Company executed against the delivery phase of the Growth Game Plan. In this phase, the Company implemented structural changes in the organization while ensuring consistent execution and delivery. The Company expects 2013 to be a transition year from the delivery phase to the strategic phase. In the strategic phase, the Company expects to expand investment behind its Win Bigger businesses to drive accelerated growth.

In 2013, the Company will continue implementing changes to drive the Growth Game Plan into action. These changes are the foundation of the expansion of Project Renewal and are organized into the following five workstreams:

◦Organizational Simplification: The Company has de-layered its top structure by eliminating the two groups (Newell Consumer and Newell Professional) and further consolidating its businesses from nine GBUs to six business segments.

◦EMEA Simplification: The Company will focus its resources on fewer products and countries, while simplifying go-to-market, delivery and back office support structures.

◦Best Cost Finance: The Company will deliver a simplified approach to decision support, transaction processing and information management by leveraging SAP and the streamlined business segments to align resources with the Growth Game Plan. 

◦Best Cost Back Office: The Company will drive “One Newell Rubbermaid” efficiencies in customer and consumer services and sourcing functions. 

◦Supply Chain Footprint: The Company will further optimize manufacturing and distribution facilities across its global supply chain. 

In implementing the tenets of its strategy and its change agenda, the Company is focused on Every Day Great Execution, or EDGE, to capitalize on and maximize the benefits of investment and growth opportunities and to optimize the cost structure of the business.

4
BUSINESS SEGMENTS

The Company’s segments reflect the Company’s focus on building large consumer and professional brands and leveraging its understanding of similar markets and distribution channels. The Company’s six segments and the key brands included in each of the six business segments are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Home Solutions

The Company’s Home Solutions segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes a wide range of consumer products under multiple brand names, primarily targeting the female head of household. Indoor/outdoor organization products and food and home storage products are primarily sold under the Rubbermaid®, Roughneck® and TakeAlongs® trademarks. Aluminum and stainless steel cookware, bakeware, cutlery, small kitchen electrics, and kitchen gadgets and utensils are primarily sold under the Calphalon®, Kitchen Essentials®, Cooking with Calphalon™, Calphalon®Unison™ and Katana™ trademarks. Window treatments, drapery hardware and cabinet hardware are primarily sold under the Levolor®, Kirsch® and Amerock® trademarks. Hair care accessories and grooming products are marketed primarily under the Goody® and Solano® trademarks.

The Home Solutions segment primarily markets its products directly to mass merchants and specialty, grocery/drug and department stores.

Writing

The Company’s Writing segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes writing instruments, primarily for use in business and the home. The segment’s product offerings include markers, highlighters, art and office organization products, and everyday and fine writing instruments and accessories. Permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase markers, highlighters and art supplies are primarily sold under the Sharpie®, Expo®, Sharpie® Accent®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol® and Prismacolor® trademarks. Ballpoint pens and inks, roller ball pens, mechanical pencils and correction supplies are primarily sold under the Paper Mate®, InkJoy®, Uni-Ball® (used under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America and certain areas in Latin America), Sharpie®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol®, Reynolds® and Liquid Paper® trademarks. Fine writing instruments are primarily sold under the Parker®, Waterman® and Rotring® trademarks.

The Writing segment generally markets its products directly to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers, travel retail and other retailers.

Tools

The Company’s Tools segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes hand tools and power tool accessories, industrial bandsaw blades, cutting tools for pipes and HVAC systems, and industrial labeling solutions. Hand tools and power tool accessories are primarily sold under the Irwin®, Vise-Grip®, Marathon®, Quick-Grip®, Unibit® and Strait-Line® trademarks, while industrial bandsaw blades and cutting and drilling accessories are sold under the Lenox® trademark. Industrial label makers are sold under the Dymo® trademark.

5
The Tools segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, industrial/construction outlets and other professional customers.

Commercial Products

The Company’s Commercial Products segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems, material handling solutions and medical and computer carts. Rubbermaid Commercial Products primarily sells its cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems, material handling solutions and medical and computer carts and wall-mounted workstations under the trademarks Rubbermaid® and Brute®.

The Commercial Products segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, commercial products distributors, select contract customers and other professional customers.

Baby & Parenting

The Company’s Baby & Parenting segment designs and distributes infant and juvenile products such as swings, highchairs, car seats, strollers and playards, and primarily sells its products under the trademarks Graco®, Aprica® and Teutonia®. The Baby & Parenting segment sources substantially all of its products. 

The Baby & Parenting segment primarily markets its products directly to mass merchants and department stores.

Specialty

The Company’s Specialty segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes products that include convenience and window hardware, manual paint applicators, label makers and printers, on-line postage, and interactive teaching solutions. Hardware and paint applicator products are primarily sold under the Bulldog®, Ashland™ and Shur-Line® trademarks. Labeling and other technology products include on-demand labeling products, online postage and interactive teaching solutions and are primarily sold under the trademarks Dymo®, Endicia® and Mimio®.

The Specialty segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, industrial/construction outlets, and other professional customers.

NET SALES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT

The following table sets forth the amounts and percentages of the Company’s net sales for 2012, 2011 and 2010 (in millions, except percentages) (including sales of acquired businesses from the time of acquisition) for the Company’s six business segments.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries, which includes Sam’s Club, amounted to approximately 10.8%, 11.0% and 11.9% of consolidated net sales for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, substantially across all segments. For more detailed segment information, including operating income and identifiable assets by segment, refer to Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

OTHER INFORMATION

Multi-Product Offering

The Company’s broad product offering in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can assist volume purchasers in selling a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising 

6
to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income, and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.

Customer Marketing and Service

The Company strives to develop long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships with its customers and to be their supplier and brand of choice. To achieve this goal, the Company has a value-added marketing program that offers a family of leading brand name consumer products, tailored sales programs, innovative merchandising support, in-store services and responsive top management.

The Company strives to enhance its relationships with customers through exceptional customer service. The Company’s ability to provide superior customer service is a result of its supply chain, information technology, and marketing and merchandising programs that are designed to enhance the sales and profitability of its customers and provide consistent on-time delivery of its products.

A critical element of the Company’s customer service is consistent on-time delivery of products to its customers. Retailers are pursuing a number of strategies to deliver the highest-quality, best-cost products to their customers. Retailers frequently purchase on a “just-in-time” basis in order to reduce inventory carrying costs and increase returns on investment. As retailers shorten their lead times for orders, manufacturers and suppliers need to more closely anticipate consumer buying patterns. The Company supports its retail customers’ “just-in-time” inventory strategies through more responsive manufacturing and distribution capabilities and electronic communications.

Foreign Operations

Information regarding the Company’s 2012, 2011 and 2010 foreign operations and financial information by geographic area is included in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s foreign operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.

The Company began accounting for its Venezuelan operations using highly inflationary accounting in January 2010. Under highly inflationary accounting, the Company remeasures assets, liabilities, sales and expenses denominated in Bolivar Fuertes into U.S. Dollars using the applicable exchange rate, and the resulting translation adjustments are included in earnings. In June 2010, the Venezuelan government introduced a newly regulated foreign currency exchange system, Transaction System for Foreign Currency Denominated Securities (“SITME”). Foreign currency exchange through SITME is allowed within a specified band of 4.5 to 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte to U.S. Dollar, but most of the exchanges have been executed at the rate of 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte to U.S. Dollar. The Company began applying the SITME rate of 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte to U.S. Dollar in May 2010. The transition to the SITME rate resulted in a foreign exchange gain of $5.6 million, which is recognized in other income for 2010. The SITME rate has remained unchanged at 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte since June 2010, and consequently, there was no foreign exchange gain or loss recorded for the Company’s Venezuelan operations during 2011 and 2012. 

As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s Venezuelan subsidiary had $63.4 million of net monetary assets denominated in Bolivar Fuertes at the SITME rate of 5.3 Bolivar Fuertes to U.S. Dollar, and as a result, a 10% increase (decrease) in the applicable exchange rate would result in an estimated one-time pretax charge (benefit) of $6 million. On an ongoing basis, excluding the impacts of any actions management might otherwise take in response to a change in exchange rates, such as raising or decreasing prices, a 10% increase (decrease) in the exchange rate would unfavorably (favorably) impact annual net sales and operating income by an estimated $5 million and $3 million, respectively. 

In February 2013, the exchange rate for Bolivar Fuertes declined to 6.3 Bolivar Fuertes to U.S. Dollar, and as a result, the Company expects to record an estimated $10 million one-time charge in the first quarter of 2013, based on the decline in value of the net monetary assets of its Venezuelan operations that are denominated in Bolivar Fuertes at the time the devaluation is effective. In addition, the Company’s 2013 reported net sales and operating income are expected to be adversely impacted by an estimated $9 million and $5 million, respectively, due solely to the devaluation of the Bolivar Fuerte. The Company is unable to predict with certainty whether future devaluations will occur because of the economic uncertainty in Venezuela; however, future devaluations would adversely impact the Company’s future financial results.

Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate and metals, including steel, stainless steel, zinc, aluminum and gold. The Company’s resin purchases principally comprise polyethylene and polypropylene in roughly equal quantities. Over the long-term, the Company has experienced inflation in raw material prices, and the Company expects continued inflation pressures 

7
in 2013. The Company has reduced the volume of its resin purchases through rationalizing and exiting product lines. On an annualized basis, commodities consumed as raw materials generally represent approximately 10% to 15% of annual cost of products sold, with no single type of commodity representing more than 10% of cost of products sold.

The Company also relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. In a limited number of cases, a single manufacturer or a limited number of manufacturers may supply substantially all of the finished goods for a product line. In particular, certain businesses within the Baby & Parenting and Home Solutions segments rely on third-party manufacturers for substantially all of their products.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.

Backlog

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.

Seasonal Variations

Sales of the Company’s products tend to be seasonal, with sales and operating income in the first quarter generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced volume and the mix of products sold in the first quarter. Historically, the Company has earned more than 60% of its annual operating income during the second and third quarters of the year. The seasonality of the Company’s sales volume, combined with the accounting for fixed costs such as depreciation, amortization, rent, personnel costs and interest expense, impacts the Company’s results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company has historically generated more than 60% of its operating cash flow in the second half of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments and customer rebates, and credit terms provided to customers.

Patents and Trademarks

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks are “Rubbermaid®,” “Graco®,” “Aprica®,” “Levolor®,” “Calphalon®,” “Goody®,” “Sharpie®,” “Paper Mate®,” “Dymo®,” “Parker®,” “Waterman®,” “Irwin®” and “Lenox®.”

Customers/Competition

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. The rapid growth of large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, has contributed to a significant consolidation of the consumer products retail industry and dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment may limit the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.

Current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, which compete with products of the Company. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well-established.

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining consumer-meaningful brands and differentiated products that deliver superior value and performance; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery; producing and procuring products at a competitive cost; and experienced management.

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailer, including discount, drug, grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; and contract stationers. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 10.8% of net sales in 2012, across substantially all segments. The Company’s top-ten customers in 2012 included (in alphabetical order): Bed Bath & Beyond, Lowe’s, Office Depot, OfficeMax, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us, United Stationers and Wal-Mart.

8
Environmental Matters

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report and in Footnote 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.

Research and Development

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. The Company’s research and development costs are incurred to develop new, differentiated and innovative products to meet consumers’ needs.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately 18,300 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 2,200 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS