PART I  

Item 1. Business  

Introduction  

Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals.  

When we use the terms “Goldman Sachs,” “the firm,” “we,” “us” and “our,” we mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

References to “the 2014 Form 10-K” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. All references to 2014, 2013 and 2012 refer to our years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 2014, December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.  

Group Inc. is a bank holding company and a financial holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board). Our U.S. depository institution subsidiary, Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA), is a New York State-chartered bank. 

As of December 2014, we had offices in over 30 countries and 49% of our total staff was based outside the Americas. Our clients are located worldwide, and we are an active participant in financial markets around the world. In 2014, we generated 42% of our net revenues outside the Americas. For more information about our geographic results, see Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the 2014 Form 10-K.  

Our Business Segments and Segment Operating Results  

We report our activities in four business segments: Investment Banking, Institutional Client Services, Investing & Lending and Investment Management. The chart below presents our four business segments. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   1 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

The table below presents our segment operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 1.  Financial information concerning our business segments for 2014, 2013 and 2012 is included in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” which are in Part II, Items 7 and 8, respectively, of the 2014 Form 10-K. See Note 25 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the 2014 Form 10-K for a summary of our total net revenues, pre-tax earnings and net earnings by geographic region.  

 2.  Includes charitable contributions that have not been allocated to our segments of $137 million for 2014, $155 million for 2013 and $169 million for 2012. Operating expenses related to real estate-related exit costs, previously not allocated to our segments, have now been allocated. This allocation reflects the change in the manner in which management views the performance of our segments. Reclassifications have been made to previously reported segment amounts to conform to the current presentation.  

 Investment Banking  

Investment Banking serves public and private sector clients around the world. We provide financial advisory services and help companies raise capital to strengthen and grow their businesses. We seek to develop and maintain long-term relationships with a diverse global group of institutional clients, including governments, states and municipalities. Our goal is to deliver to our institutional clients the entire resources of the firm in a seamless fashion, with investment banking serving as the main initial point of contact with Goldman Sachs. 

Financial Advisory. Financial Advisory includes strategic advisory assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities, restructurings, spin-offs and risk management. In particular, we help clients execute large, complex transactions for which we provide multiple services, including acquisition financing and cross-border structuring expertise. Financial Advisory also includes revenues from derivative transactions directly related to these client advisory assignments.  

We also assist our clients in managing their asset and liability exposures and their capital. In addition, we may provide lending commitments and bank loan and bridge loan facilities in connection with our advisory assignments.  

Underwriting. The other core activity of Investment Banking is helping companies raise capital to fund their businesses. As a financial intermediary, our job is to match the capital of our investing clients — who aim to grow the savings of millions of people — with the needs of our public and private sector clients — who need financing to generate growth, create jobs and deliver products and services. Our underwriting activities include public offerings and private placements, including local and cross-border transactions, of a wide range of securities and other financial instruments. Underwriting also includes revenues from derivative transactions entered into with public and private sector clients in connection with our underwriting activities.  

Equity Underwriting. We underwrite common and preferred stock and convertible and exchangeable securities. We regularly receive mandates for large, complex transactions and have held a leading position in worldwide public common stock offerings and worldwide initial public offerings for many years.  

Debt Underwriting. We underwrite and originate various types of debt instruments, including investment-grade and high-yield debt, bank loans and bridge loans, and emerging- and growth-market debt, which may be issued by, among others, corporate, sovereign, municipal and agency issuers. In addition, we underwrite and originate structured securities, which include mortgage-related securities and other asset-backed securities. 

 2   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Institutional Client Services 

Institutional Client Services serves our clients who come to the firm to buy and sell financial products, raise funding and manage risk. We do this by acting as a market maker and offering market expertise on a global basis. Institutional Client Services makes markets and facilitates client transactions in fixed income, equity, currency and commodity products. In addition, we make markets in and clear client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. Market makers provide liquidity and play a critical role in price discovery, which contributes to the overall efficiency of the capital markets. Our willingness to make markets, commit capital and take risk in a broad range of products is crucial to our client relationships.  

Our clients are primarily institutions that are professional market participants, including investment entities whose ultimate customers include individual investors investing for their retirement, buying insurance or putting aside surplus cash in a deposit account.  

Through our global sales force, we maintain relationships with our clients, receiving orders and distributing investment research, trading ideas, market information and analysis. As a market maker, we provide prices to clients globally across thousands of products in all major asset classes and markets. At times we take the other side of transactions ourselves if a buyer or seller is not readily available and at other times we connect our clients to other parties who want to transact. Much of this connectivity between the firm and its clients is maintained on technology platforms and operates globally wherever and whenever markets are open for trading.  

Institutional Client Services and our other businesses are supported by our Global Investment Research division, which, as of December 2014, provided fundamental research on more than 3,600 companies worldwide and more than 40 national economies, as well as on industries, currencies and commodities. 

Institutional Client Services generates revenues in four ways:  

 Ÿ    In large, highly liquid markets (such as markets for U.S. Treasury bills, large capitalization S&P 500 stocks or certain mortgage pass-through securities), we execute a high volume of transactions for our clients for modest spreads and fees;  

 Ÿ    In less liquid markets (such as mid-cap corporate bonds, growth market currencies or certain non-agency mortgage-backed securities), we execute transactions for our clients for spreads and fees that are generally somewhat larger;  

 Ÿ    We also structure and execute transactions involving customized or tailor-made products that address our clients’ risk exposures, investment objectives or other complex needs (such as a jet fuel hedge for an airline); and  

 Ÿ    We provide financing to our clients for their securities trading activities, as well as securities lending and other prime brokerage services.  

Institutional Client Services activities are organized by asset class and include both “cash” and “derivative” instruments. “Cash” refers to trading the underlying instrument (such as a stock, bond or barrel of oil). “Derivative” refers to instruments that derive their value from underlying asset prices, indices, reference rates and other inputs, or a combination of these factors (such as an option, which is the right or obligation to buy or sell a certain bond or stock index on a specified date in the future at a certain price, or an interest rate swap, which is the agreement to convert a fixed rate of interest into a floating rate or vice versa). 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   3 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution. Includes interest rate products, credit products, mortgages, currencies and commodities.  

 Ÿ    Interest Rate Products. Government bonds, money market instruments such as commercial paper, treasury bills, repurchase agreements and other highly liquid securities and instruments, as well as interest rate swaps, options and other derivatives.  

 Ÿ    Credit Products. Investment-grade corporate securities, high-yield securities, credit derivatives, bank and bridge loans, municipal securities, emerging market and distressed debt, and trade claims.  

 Ÿ    Mortgages. Commercial mortgage-related securities, loans and derivatives, residential mortgage-related securities, loans and derivatives (including U.S. government agency-issued collateralized mortgage obligations, other prime, subprime and Alt-A securities and loans), and other asset-backed securities, loans and derivatives.  

 Ÿ    Currencies. Most currencies, including growth-market currencies.  

 Ÿ    Commodities. Crude oil and petroleum products, natural gas, base, precious and other metals, electricity, coal, agricultural and other commodity products.  

Equities. Includes equities client execution, commissions and fees, and securities services.  

Equities Client Execution. We make markets in equity securities and equity-related products, including convertible securities, options, futures and over-the-counter (OTC) derivative instruments, on a global basis. As a principal, we facilitate client transactions by providing liquidity to our clients with large blocks of stocks or derivatives, requiring the commitment of our capital.  

We also structure and make markets in derivatives on indices, industry groups, financial measures and individual company stocks. We develop strategies and provide information about portfolio hedging and restructuring and asset allocation transactions for our clients. We also work with our clients to create specially tailored instruments to enable sophisticated investors to establish or liquidate investment positions or undertake hedging strategies. We are one of the leading participants in the trading and development of equity derivative instruments.  

Our exchange-based market-making activities include making markets in stocks and exchange-traded funds, futures and options on major exchanges worldwide. 

Commissions and Fees. We generate commissions and fees from executing and clearing institutional client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide, as well as OTC transactions. We provide our clients with access to a broad spectrum of equity execution services, including electronic “low-touch” access and more traditional “high-touch” execution. While the majority of our equity trading activity is “low-touch,” the majority of our net revenues continue to be derived from our “high-touch” activity. We expect both types of activity to remain important.  

Securities Services. Includes financing, securities lending and other prime brokerage services.  

 Ÿ    Financing Services. We provide financing to our clients for their securities trading activities through margin loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or other acceptable collateral. We earn a spread equal to the difference between the amount we pay for funds and the amount we receive from our client.  

 Ÿ    Securities Lending Services. We provide services that principally involve borrowing and lending securities to cover institutional clients’ short sales and borrowing securities to cover our short sales and otherwise to make deliveries into the market. In addition, we are an active participant in broker-to-broker securities lending and third-party agency lending activities.  

 Ÿ    Other Prime Brokerage Services. We earn fees by providing clearing, settlement and custody services globally. In addition, we provide our hedge fund and other clients with a technology platform and reporting which enables them to monitor their security portfolios and manage risk exposures. 

 4   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Investing & Lending  

Our investing and lending activities, which are typically longer-term, include the firm’s investing and relationship lending activities across various asset classes, primarily debt securities and loans, public and private equity securities, and real estate. These activities include investing directly in publicly and privately traded securities and in loans, and also through certain investment funds that we manage. We manage a diversified global portfolio of investments in equity securities and debt and other investments in privately negotiated transactions, leveraged buyouts, acquisitions and investments in funds managed by external parties. We also provide financing to our clients.  

Equity Securities. We make corporate, real estate and infrastructure equity-related investments.  

Debt Securities and Loans. We make corporate, real estate, infrastructure and other debt investments. In addition, we provide credit to corporate clients through loan facilities and to high-net-worth individuals primarily through secured loans.  

Other. Our other investments include consolidated investments, for which we have an exit strategy and which are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our principal businesses.  

Investment Management  

Investment Management provides investment and wealth advisory services to help clients preserve and grow their financial assets. Our clients include institutions and high-net-worth individuals, as well as retail investors who access our products through a network of third-party distributors around the world.  

We manage client assets across a broad range of asset classes and investment strategies, including equity, fixed income and alternative investments. Alternative investments primarily include hedge funds, credit funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities, and asset allocation strategies. Our investment offerings include those managed on a fiduciary basis by our portfolio managers as well as strategies managed by third-party managers. We offer our investments in a variety of structures, including separately managed accounts, mutual funds, private partnerships, and other commingled vehicles. 

We also provide customized investment advisory solutions designed to address our clients’ investment needs. These solutions begin with identifying clients’ objectives and continue through portfolio construction, ongoing asset allocation and risk management and investment realization. We draw from a variety of third-party managers as well as our proprietary offerings to implement solutions for clients.  

We supplement our investment advisory solutions for high-net-worth clients with wealth advisory services that include income and liability management, trust and estate planning, philanthropic giving and tax planning. We also use the firm’s global securities and derivatives market-making capabilities to address clients’ specific investment needs.  

Management and Other Fees. The majority of revenues in management and other fees is comprised of asset-based fees on client assets. The fees that we charge vary by asset class and are affected by investment performance as well as asset inflows and redemptions. Other fees we receive include financial counseling fees generated through our wealth advisory services and fees related to the administration of real estate assets.  

Assets under supervision include assets under management and other client assets. Assets under management include client assets where we earn a fee for managing assets on a discretionary basis. This includes net assets in our mutual funds, hedge funds, credit funds and private equity funds (including real estate funds), and separately managed accounts for institutional and individual investors. Other client assets include client assets invested with third-party managers, bank deposits and advisory relationships where we earn a fee for advisory and other services, but do not have investment discretion. Assets under supervision do not include the self-directed brokerage assets of our clients. Long-term assets under supervision represent assets under supervision excluding liquidity products. Liquidity products represent money markets and bank deposit assets. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   5 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Incentive Fees. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund’s or a separately managed account’s return, or when the return exceeds a specified benchmark or other performance targets. Such fees include overrides, which consist of the increased share of the income and gains derived primarily from our private equity funds when the return on a fund’s investments over the life of the fund exceeds certain threshold returns. Incentive fees are recognized only when all material contingencies are resolved.  

Transaction Revenues. We receive commissions and net spreads for facilitating transactional activity in high-net-worth client accounts. In addition, we earn net interest income primarily associated with client deposits and margin lending activity undertaken by such clients.  

Business Continuity and Information Security  

Business continuity and information security, including cyber security, are high priorities for Goldman Sachs. Their importance has been highlighted by Hurricane Sandy and several recent highly publicized cyber attacks against financial institutions and large consumer-based companies that resulted in the unauthorized disclosure of personal information of clients and/or customers, as well as other cyber attacks involving the theft and destruction of corporate information.  

Our Business Continuity Program has been developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity in the event of disruptions at the firm’s critical facilities and to comply with regulatory requirements, including those of FINRA. Because we are a bank holding company, our Business Continuity Program is also subject to review by the Federal Reserve Board. The key elements of the program are crisis planning and management, people recovery, business recovery, systems and data recovery, and process improvement. In the area of information security, we have developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology to protect the information provided to us by our clients and that of the firm from cyber attacks and other misappropriation, corruption or loss. Safeguards are applied to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. 

Employees  

Management believes that a major strength and principal reason for the success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and dedication of our people and the shared sense of being part of a team. We strive to maintain a work environment that fosters professionalism, excellence, diversity, cooperation among our employees worldwide and high standards of business ethics.  

Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a continuous process, in which training plays an important part. All employees are offered the opportunity to participate in education and periodic seminars that we sponsor at various locations throughout the world. Another important part of instilling the Goldman Sachs culture is our employee review process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and employees they supervise in a 360-degree review process that is integral to our team approach, and includes an evaluation of an employee’s performance with respect to risk management, compliance and diversity. As of December 2014, we had 34,000 total staff.  

Competition  

The financial services industry — and all of our businesses — are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. Our competitors are other entities that provide investment banking, securities and investment management services, as well as those entities that make investments in securities, commodities, derivatives, real estate, loans and other financial assets. These entities include brokers and dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, insurance companies, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and merchant banks. We compete with some entities globally and with others on a regional, product or niche basis. Our competition is based on a number of factors, including transaction execution, products and services, innovation, reputation and price. 

 6   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services industry and, in particular, the credit crisis caused numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants. Efforts by our competitors to gain market share have resulted in pricing pressure in our investment banking and client execution businesses and could result in pricing pressure in other of our businesses. Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face, pressure to retain market share by committing capital to businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate clients seek such commitments (such as agreements to participate in their commercial paper backstop or other loan facilities) from financial services firms in connection with investment banking and other assignments.  

Consolidation and convergence have significantly increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our competitors, and have also hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial services markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to support our international operations and to execute large global transactions. To take advantage of some of our most significant opportunities, we will have to compete successfully with financial institutions that are larger and have more capital and that may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history outside the United States. We also compete with smaller institutions that offer more targeted services, such as independent advisory firms. Some clients may perceive these firms to be less susceptible to potential conflicts of interest than we are, and, as discussed below, our ability to effectively compete with them could be affected by regulations and limitations on activities that apply to us but may not apply to them.  

We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. For example, over the past several years the increasing volume of trades executed electronically, through the internet and through alternative trading systems, has increased the pressure on trading commissions, in that commissions for “low-touch” electronic trading are generally lower than for “high-touch” non-electronic trading. It appears that this trend toward electronic and other “low-touch,” low-commission trading will continue. In addition, we believe that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by further reducing prices. 

The provisions of the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), the requirements promulgated by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) and other financial regulation could affect our competitive position to the extent that limitations on activities, increased fees and compliance costs or other regulatory requirements do not apply, or do not apply equally, to all of our competitors or are not implemented uniformly across different jurisdictions. For example, the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that prohibit proprietary trading and restrict investments in certain hedge and private equity funds differentiate between U.S.-based and non-U.S.-based banking organizations and give non-U.S.-based banking organizations greater flexibility to trade outside of the United States and to form and invest in funds outside the United States. Likewise, the obligations with respect to derivative transactions under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act depend, in part, on the location of the counterparties to the transaction. The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulatory developments on our competitive position will depend to a large extent on the manner in which the required rulemaking and regulatory guidance evolve, the extent of international convergence, and the development of market practice and structures under the new regulatory regimes as discussed further under “Regulation” below.  

We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete effectively will depend upon our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees and to continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of large financial institutions. Our pay practices and those of certain of our competitors are subject to review by, and the standards of, the Federal Reserve Board and regulators outside the United States, including the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom. We also compete for employees with institutions whose pay practices are not subject to regulatory oversight. See “Regulation — Bank Holding Company Regulation” and “Regulation — Compensation Practices” below and “Risk Factors — Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees” in Part I, Item 1A of the 2014 Form 10-K for more information about the regulation of our compensation practices. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   7 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Regulation  

As a participant in the banking, securities, investment management, and derivatives industries, we are subject to extensive regulation worldwide. Regulatory bodies around the world are generally charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interests of the customers of market participants, including depositors in banking entities and the customers of banks, broker-dealers, investment advisers, swap dealers and security-based swap dealers.  

The financial services industry has been the subject of intense regulatory scrutiny in recent years. Our businesses have been subject to increasing regulation and supervision in the United States and other countries, and we expect this trend to continue in the future. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in July 2010, significantly altered the financial regulatory regime within which we operate. Not all the rules required or expected to be implemented under the Dodd-Frank Act have been proposed or adopted, and certain of the rules that have been proposed or adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to phase-in or transitional periods. The implications of the Dodd-Frank Act for our businesses continue to depend to a large extent on the implementation of the legislation by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the SEC, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and other agencies, as well as the development of market practices and structures under the regime established by the legislation and the implementing rules. Other reforms have been adopted or are being considered by other regulators and policy makers worldwide, as discussed further throughout this section. We will continue to update our business, risk management, and compliance practices to conform to developments in the regulatory environment. 

Bank Holding Company Regulation  

Group Inc. is a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under amendments to the BHC Act effected by the U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (GLB Act).  

Supervision and Regulation  

As a bank holding company and a financial holding company under the BHC Act, Group Inc. is subject to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Under the system of “functional regulation” established under the BHC Act, the Federal Reserve Board serves as the primary regulator of our consolidated organization, but generally defers to the primary regulators of our U.S. non-bank subsidiaries with respect to the activities of those subsidiaries. Such “functionally regulated” U.S. non-bank subsidiaries include broker-dealers registered with the SEC, such as our principal U.S. broker-dealer, Goldman, Sachs & Co. (GS&Co.), entities registered with or regulated by the CFTC with respect to futures-related and swaps-related activities and investment advisers registered with the SEC with respect to their investment advisory activities.  

As discussed further below, our principal U.S. bank subsidiary, GS Bank USA, is supervised and regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the New York State Department of Financial Services and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). In addition, Group Inc. has two limited purpose trust company subsidiaries that are not permitted to accept deposits or make loans (other than as incidental to their trust activities) and are not insured by the FDIC. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association that is limited to fiduciary activities, is regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and is a member bank of the Federal Reserve System. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company of Delaware, a Delaware limited purpose trust company, is regulated by the Office of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner. 

 8   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Activities  

The BHC Act generally restricts bank holding companies from engaging in business activities other than the business of banking and certain closely related activities. Financial holding companies, however, generally can engage in a broader range of financial and related activities than are otherwise permissible for bank holding companies as long as they continue to meet the eligibility requirements for financial holding companies. These requirements include that the financial holding company and each of its U.S. depository institution subsidiaries maintain their status as “well-capitalized” and “well-managed.” The broader range of permissible activities for financial holding companies includes underwriting, dealing and making markets in securities and making investments in non-financial companies. In addition, financial holding companies are permitted under the GLB Act to engage in certain commodities activities in the United States that may otherwise be impermissible for bank holding companies, so long as the assets held pursuant to these activities do not equal 5% or more of their consolidated assets.  

The Federal Reserve Board, however, has the authority to limit our ability to conduct activities that would otherwise be permissible for a financial holding company, and will do so if we do not satisfactorily meet certain requirements of the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, we are required to obtain prior Federal Reserve Board approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the United States and abroad. 

Volcker Rule  

In December 2013, the final rules to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act referred to as the “Volcker Rule” were adopted.  

The Volcker Rule prohibits “proprietary trading,” but permits activities such as underwriting, market making and risk-mitigation hedging. We are also required to calculate daily quantitative metrics on covered trading activities (as defined in the rule) and provide these metrics to regulators on a monthly basis. In addition, the Volcker Rule limits the sponsorship of, and investment in, “covered funds” (as defined in the rule) by banking entities, including Group Inc. and its subsidiaries. It also limits certain types of transactions between us and our sponsored funds, similar to the limitations on transactions between depository institutions and their affiliates as described below under “Regulation of GS Bank USA — Transactions with Affiliates.” Covered funds include our private equity funds, certain of our credit and real estate funds, our hedge funds and certain other investment structures.  

We are required to be in compliance with the prohibition on proprietary trading and to develop an extensive compliance program by July 2015. In December 2014, the Federal Reserve Board extended the compliance period through July 2016 for investments in, and relationships with, covered funds that were in place prior to December 31, 2013, and indicated that it intends to further extend the compliance period through July 2017.  

The limitation on investments in covered funds requires us to reduce our investment in each such fund to 3% or less of the fund’s net asset value, and to reduce our aggregate investment in all such funds to 3% or less of our Tier 1 capital. In anticipation of the final rule, we limited our initial investment in certain new covered funds to 3% of the fund’s net asset value.  

We continue to manage our existing funds, taking into account the transition periods under the Volcker Rule. We plan to continue to conduct our investing and lending activities in ways that are permissible under the Volcker Rule.  

See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Regulatory Developments — Volcker Rule” in Part II, Item 7 of the 2014 Form 10-K for information about our investments in covered funds. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   9 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Leveraged Lending  

During the past several years, the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies have raised concerns over origination and other practices in leveraged lending markets. The agencies have issued guidance that focuses on transaction structures and risk management frameworks and outlined high-level principles for safe-and-sound leveraged lending, including underwriting standards, valuation and stress testing. Although the full impact of the guidance remains uncertain, implementation of this guidance and any related changes in the leveraged lending market could adversely affect our leveraged lending business.  

Capital and Liquidity Requirements  

As a bank holding company, we are subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal Reserve Board, and GS Bank USA is subject to substantially similar capital requirements (as discussed below), also administered by the Federal Reserve Board.  

Under the Federal Reserve Board’s capital adequacy requirements, Group Inc. must meet specific regulatory capital requirements that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance-sheet items. The sufficiency of our capital levels is also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators.  

Other regulated subsidiaries, including GS&Co. and Goldman Sachs International (GSI), are also subject to capital requirements. We expect Group Inc., GS Bank USA, GS&Co., GSI and other regulated subsidiaries to become subject to increased capital requirements over time. 

Capital Ratios. Since January 1, 2014, we have been subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s revised risk-based capital and leverage ratio regulations, inclusive of certain transitional provisions (Revised Capital Framework). These regulations are largely based on the Basel Committee’s final capital framework for strengthening international capital standards (Basel III), and also implement certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Revised Capital Framework also introduces a new Tier 1 supplementary leverage ratio (supplementary leverage ratio) for Advanced approach banking organizations.  

See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Equity Capital Management and Regulatory Capital” in Part II, Item 7 of the 2014 Form 10-K and Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the 2014 Form 10-K for the aspects of the Revised Capital Framework that are most relevant to us as an Advanced approach banking organization, including information about our Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1), CET1 ratio, Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital ratio, Total capital, Total capital ratio, risk-weighted assets (RWAs), Tier 1 leverage ratio and supplementary leverage ratio, and for a discussion of minimum required ratios. 

 10   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Liquidity Ratios under Basel III. Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the United States and internationally, without required formulaic measures. Basel III, which is subject to implementation by national regulators, requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against two specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, will be mandated by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR), is designed to ensure that the entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets under an acute short-term liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (NSFR), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term stable funding of the assets and off-balance-sheet activities of these entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements may incentivize banking entities to increase their holdings of securities that qualify as high-quality liquid assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source.  

During 2014, the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies approved final rules implementing the LCR for Advanced approach banking organizations that are generally consistent with the Basel Committee’s framework as described above, but which include accelerated transitional provisions and more stringent requirements related to both the range of assets that qualify as high-quality liquid assets and cash outflow assumptions for certain types of funding. Under the accelerated transition timeline, the LCR became effective in the United States on January 1, 2015, with a phase-in period whereby firms must meet an 80% minimum ratio in 2015, which will increase 10% per year until 2017. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7 of the 2014 Form 10-K for information about the LCR. 

During 2014, the Basel Committee issued its final framework for calculation of the NSFR. Under the Basel Committee framework, the NSFR will be effective on January 1, 2018. The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies have not yet proposed rules implementing the NSFR for U.S. banking organizations. We are currently evaluating the impact of the Basel Committee’s NSFR framework.  

The implementation of these standards, and any amendments or modifications adopted by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies, could impact our liquidity and funding requirements and practices in the future.  

Stress Tests. The Federal Reserve Board has issued final rules implementing the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act concerning the Dodd-Frank Act supervisory stress tests to be conducted by the Federal Reserve Board and semi-annual company-run stress tests for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The stress test rules require increased involvement by boards of directors in stress testing and public disclosure of the results of both the Federal Reserve Board’s annual stress tests and a bank holding company’s annual supervisory stress tests, and semi-annual internal stress tests. Certain stress test requirements are also applicable to GS Bank USA, as discussed below.  

Our internally developed severely adverse scenario is designed to stress the firm’s risks and idiosyncratic vulnerabilities and assess the firm’s pro-forma capital position and ratios under the hypothetical stressed environment. We publish summaries of our annual and mid-cycle stress tests results on our web site as described under “Available Information” below. Our annual Dodd-Frank Act stress test submission is incorporated into the annual capital plans that we are required to submit to the Federal Reserve Board as part of the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). The purpose of CCAR is to ensure that large bank holding companies have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each institution’s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. As part of CCAR, the Federal Reserve Board evaluates an institution’s plan to make capital distributions, such as repurchasing or redeeming stock or increasing dividend payments, across a range of macro-economic and firm-specific assumptions. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   11 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Payment of Dividends and Stock Repurchases. Dividend payments by Group Inc. to its shareholders and stock repurchases by Group Inc. are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve Board. The dividend and share repurchase policies of large bank holding companies, such as Group Inc., are reviewed by the Federal Reserve Board, through the CCAR process, based on capital plans and stress tests submitted by the bank holding company, and are assessed against, among other things, the bank holding company’s ability to meet and exceed minimum regulatory capital ratios under stressed scenarios, its expected sources and uses of capital over the planning horizon under baseline and stressed scenarios, and any potential impact of changes to its business plan and activities on its capital adequacy and liquidity.  

In October 2014, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule modifying the regulations for capital planning and stress testing. The modifications change the dates for submitting the capital plan and stress test results beginning with the 2016 cycle and include a limitation on capital distributions to the extent that actual capital issuances are less than the amount indicated in the capital plan submission.  

The Federal Reserve Board informed us that it did not object to our proposed capital actions through the first quarter of 2015, including the repurchase of outstanding common stock, an increase in our quarterly common stock dividend, and the possible issuance, redemption and modification of other capital securities. We submitted our 2015 capital plan and proposed capital actions to the Federal Reserve Board in January 2015 and expect to publish a summary of our annual Dodd-Frank Act stress test results in March 2015. 

Enhanced Prudential Standards. In February 2014, the Federal Reserve Board adopted rules to implement certain of the enhanced prudential standards contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act. Effective on January 1, 2015, the rules require bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management standards, including a buffer of highly liquid assets based on projected funding needs for 30 days, and increased involvement by boards of directors in liquidity and overall risk management. Although the liquidity buffer under these rules has some similarities to the LCR (and is described by the agencies as complementary to the LCR), it is a separate requirement that is in addition to the LCR. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Risk Management and Risk Factors — Overview and Structure of Risk Management” and “— Liquidity Risk Management” in Part II, Item 7 of the 2014 Form 10-K for information about our risk management practices and liquidity.  

Regulatory Proposals  

In addition to the regulatory rule changes that have already been adopted (as discussed above), both the Federal Reserve Board and the Basel Committee have proposed other changes, which are discussed below. The full impact of these proposals on the firm will not be known with certainty until after any resulting rules are finalized and market practices develop under the final rules. Furthermore, these proposals, the Dodd-Frank Act, other reform initiatives proposed and announced by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies, the Basel Committee, and other governmental entities and regulators (including the European Union (EU), the PRA and the FCA) are not in all cases consistent with one another, which adds further uncertainty to our future capital, leverage and liquidity requirements, and those of our subsidiaries. 

 12   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Federal Reserve Board Proposals. In December 2014, the Federal Reserve Board proposed a rule to establish risk-based capital surcharges for U.S. Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs). For these institutions, the proposed rule would implement the framework developed by the Basel Committee for assessing the global systemic importance of banking institutions and determining the range of additional CET1 that should be maintained by those deemed to be G-SIBs. Under the Basel Committee’s framework, the required amount of additional CET1 for G-SIBs will initially range from 1% to 2.5% and could be higher in the future for a banking institution that increases its systemic footprint (e.g., by increasing total assets). The Federal Reserve Board stated that its framework would result in surcharges higher than those calculated under the methodology published by the Basel Committee, with expected surcharges ranging from 1% to 4.5%. The proposed rule treats the Basel Committee’s methodology as a floor and introduces an alternative calculation to determine the applicable surcharge, which includes a significantly higher surcharge for systemic risk and, as part of the calculation of the applicable surcharge, a new factor based on a G-SIB’s use of short-term wholesale funding. Under the Federal Reserve Board’s proposed rule, U.S. G-SIBs would be required to meet the capital surcharges on a phased-in basis beginning in 2016 through 2019. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Equity Capital Management and Regulatory Capital” in Part II, Item 7 of the 2014 Form 10-K for additional information about our minimum capital ratios and capital buffers.  

In December 2011, the Federal Reserve Board proposed rules to implement the enhanced prudential standards and early remediation requirements contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act. Although most components of these proposals have now been addressed in final rules that are described above, the single-counterparty credit limits and early remediation requirements are still under consideration. The proposed single-counterparty credit limits impose more stringent requirements for credit exposure among major financial institutions, which (together with other provisions incorporated into the Basel III capital rules) may affect our ability to transact or hedge with other financial institutions. The proposed early remediation rules are modeled on the prompt corrective action regime, described below, but are designed to require action to begin in earlier stages of a company’s financial distress, based on a range of triggers, including capital and leverage, stress test results, liquidity and risk management. 

Basel Committee and Financial Stability Board Proposals. The Basel Committee published its final guidelines for calculating incremental capital requirements for domestic systemically important banking institutions (D-SIBs). These guidelines are complementary to the framework outlined above for G-SIBs, but are more principles-based in order to provide an appropriate degree of national discretion. The impact of these guidelines on the regulatory capital requirements of GS Bank USA, GSI and other of our subsidiaries will depend on how they are implemented by the banking and non-banking regulators in the United States and other jurisdictions.  

The Basel Committee has recently issued several updates which propose further changes to capital regulations. In particular, it has finalized a revised standard approach for calculating RWAs for counterparty credit risk on derivatives exposures (“Standardized Approach for measuring Counterparty Credit Risk exposures,” known as “SA-CCR”). In addition, it has published guidelines for measuring and controlling large exposures (“Supervisory Framework for measuring and controlling Large Exposures”), and issued an updated framework for regulatory capital treatment of banking book securitizations.  

The Basel Committee has also issued consultation papers on a “Fundamental Review of the Trading Book” and on the design of a capital floor framework based on the standardized approach. The impact of all of these developments on the firm (including RWAs and regulatory capital ratios) will not be known until after any resulting rules are finalized by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies.  

In November 2014, the Financial Stability Board issued a set of principles and a term sheet on a new minimum standard for “total loss-absorbing capacity” of G-SIBs and indicated that it expects to finalize its proposal by late 2015. The proposal would require G-SIBs to maintain minimum ratios of regulatory capital plus certain types of debt instruments to RWAs and leverage exposure. Under the proposal, the requirements will be effective no earlier than January 1, 2019. The proposal is subject to change, and its impact on us will depend on, among other things, how it is implemented by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   13 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Resolution and Recovery Plans  

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC have jointly issued a rule requiring each bank holding company with over $50 billion in assets and each designated systemically important financial institution to provide to regulators an annual plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure (resolution plan). Our resolution plan must, among other things, demonstrate that GS Bank USA is adequately protected from risks arising from our other entities. The regulators’ joint rule sets specific standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a detailed resolution strategy and analyses of the company’s material entities, organizational structure, interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements. Group Inc. submitted resolution plans to its regulators in 2012, 2013 and 2014. In August 2014, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC indicated that Group Inc. and other large industry participants had certain shortcomings in the 2013 resolution plans that must be addressed in the 2015 resolution plans, which are required to be submitted on or before July 1, 2015. If we fail to cure the deficiencies in a timely manner and the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC jointly determine that our resolution plan, after any permitted resubmission, is not credible, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC may jointly impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements on us or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations until we submit a plan that remedies the deficiencies. If the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC ultimately determine that we have been unable to remedy the deficiencies, they may jointly order us to divest assets or operations in order to facilitate our orderly resolution in the event of our failure.  

Group Inc. is also required by the Federal Reserve Board to submit, on an annual basis, a global recovery plan that outlines the steps that management could take to reduce risk, maintain sufficient liquidity, and conserve capital in times of prolonged stress. We have been submitting plans annually since 2010.  

The European Banking Authority and the national resolution authorities of the EU are in the process of implementing the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD), which will impact the firm’s EU-regulated entities. Certain of the provisions of BRRD, including the requirements for contractual recognition of the “bail-in” powers of EU resolution authorities to recapitalize a failing entity by writing down its unsecured debt or converting its unsecured debt into equity, came into force on January 1, 2015, and the remainder of the BRRD’s provisions are expected to be implemented by January 2016. 

Source of Strength  

Federal Reserve Board policy historically has required bank holding companies to act as a source of strength to their bank subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to support those subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act codifies this policy as a statutory requirement. This support may be required by the Federal Reserve Board at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it. Capital loans by a bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In addition, if a bank holding company commits to a federal bank regulator that it will maintain the capital of its bank subsidiary, whether in response to the Federal Reserve Board’s invoking its source-of-strength authority or in response to other regulatory measures, that commitment will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and the bank will be entitled to priority payment in respect of that commitment, ahead of other creditors of the bank holding company.  

The BHC Act provides for regulation of bank holding company activities by various functional regulators and prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from requiring a payment by a holding company subsidiary to a depository institution if the functional regulator of that subsidiary objects to such payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve Board could instead require the divestiture of the depository institution and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture.  

Compensation Practices  

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve Board and, with respect to some of our subsidiaries and employees, by other financial regulatory bodies worldwide. The scope and content of compensation regulation in the financial industry are continuing to develop, and we expect that these regulations and resulting market practices will evolve over a number of years. 

 14   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies have provided guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation arrangements at banking organizations take into account risk and are consistent with safe and sound practices. The guidance sets forth the following three key principles with respect to incentive compensation arrangements: (i) the arrangements should provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and financial results in a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their organizations to imprudent risk; (ii) the arrangements should be compatible with effective controls and risk management; and (iii) the arrangements should be supported by strong corporate governance. The guidance provides that supervisory findings with respect to incentive compensation will be incorporated, as appropriate, into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The guidance also provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk management, control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness.  

The Financial Stability Board has released standards for implementing certain compensation principles for banks and other financial companies designed to encourage sound compensation practices. These standards are to be implemented by local regulators. In the EU, the Fourth Capital Requirements Directive (CRD4) includes compensation provisions designed to implement the Financial Stability Board’s compensation standards. These rules have been implemented by EU member states and, among other things, limit the ratio of variable to fixed compensation of certain employees, including those identified as having a material impact on the risk profile of EU-regulated entities, including GSI. These requirements are in addition to the guidance issued by U.S. financial regulators discussed above and the Dodd-Frank Act provision discussed below. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the U.S. financial regulators, including the Federal Reserve Board, to establish joint regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities having at least $1 billion in total assets (which would include Group Inc. and some of its depository institution, broker-dealer and investment advisor subsidiaries) that encourage inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss to the entity. In addition, these regulators must establish regulations or guidelines requiring enhanced disclosure to regulators of incentive-based compensation arrangements. The initial version of these regulations was proposed by the U.S. financial regulators in early 2011 but the regulations have not yet been finalized. The proposed regulations incorporate the three key principles from the regulatory guidance discussed above. If the regulations are adopted in the form proposed, they may restrict our flexibility with respect to the manner in which we structure compensation.  

Regulation of GS Bank USA  

Our subsidiary, GS Bank USA, an FDIC-insured, New York State-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System, is supervised and regulated by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, the New York State Department of Financial Services and the CFPB, and is subject to minimum capital requirements (described below) that are calculated in a manner similar to those applicable to bank holding companies. A number of our activities are conducted partially or entirely through GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries, including: origination of bank loans; interest rate, credit, currency and other derivatives; leveraged finance; mortgage origination; structured finance; and agency lending.  

Under rules adopted by the Federal Reserve Board in 2012 under the Dodd-Frank Act, GS Bank USA is required to conduct stress tests on an annual basis, to submit the results to the Federal Reserve Board, and to make a summary of those results public. The rules require that the board of directors of GS Bank USA, among other things, consider the results of the stress tests in the normal course of the bank’s business including, but not limited to, its capital planning, assessment of capital adequacy and risk management practices.  

In addition, New York State banking law imposes lending limits (which take into account credit exposure from derivative transactions) and other requirements that could impact the manner and scope of GS Bank USA’s activities. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   15 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Transactions with Affiliates. Transactions between GS Bank USA or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and Group Inc. or its other subsidiaries and affiliates, on the other hand, are regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. These regulations generally limit the types and amounts of transactions (including credit extensions from GS Bank USA or its subsidiaries to Group Inc. or its other subsidiaries and affiliates) that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on market terms or better to GS Bank USA. These regulations generally do not apply to transactions between GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act expanded the coverage and scope of these regulations, including by applying them to the credit exposure arising under derivative transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and lending transactions.  

Federal and state laws impose limitations on the payment of dividends by our depository institution subsidiaries to Group Inc. In general, the amount of dividends that may be paid by GS Bank USA or our national bank trust company subsidiary is limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a “recent earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by the entity in any calendar year is in excess of the current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the entity obtains prior regulatory approval. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of the entity’s “undivided profits” (generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus). The banking regulators have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. 

Deposit Insurance. GS Bank USA accepts deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions, such as GS Bank USA. The amounts of these assessments for larger depository institutions (generally those that have $10 billion in assets or more), such as GS Bank USA, are currently based on the average total consolidated assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period, the supervisory ratings of the insured depository institution and specified forward-looking financial measures used to calculate the assessment rate. The assessment rate is subject to adjustment by the FDIC.  

Prompt Corrective Action and Capital Ratios. The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), among other things, requires the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized.  

GS Bank USA computes its CET1, Tier 1 capital, Total capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios in accordance with the Revised Capital Framework. In addition, commencing January 1, 2018, GS Bank USA will be subject to minimum supplementary leverage ratio requirements.  

See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the 2014 Form 10-K and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Equity Capital Management and Regulatory Capital” in Part II, Item 7 of the 2014 Form 10-K for information about GS Bank USA’s regulatory capital ratios and supplementary leverage ratio. 

 16   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

An institution may be downgraded to, or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than is indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to certain matters. FDICIA imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, as the capital category of an institution declines. Failure to meet the capital requirements could also require a depository institution to raise capital. Ultimately, critically undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator, as described under “— Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding Company” below.  

The prompt corrective action regulations apply only to depository institutions and not to bank holding companies such as Group Inc. However, the Federal Reserve Board is authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, based upon the undercapitalized status of the holding company’s depository institution subsidiaries. In certain instances relating to an undercapitalized depository institution subsidiary, the bank holding company would be required to guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized subsidiary’s capital restoration plan and might be liable for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments on that guarantee. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy of the holding company, the guarantee would take priority over the holding company’s general unsecured creditors, as described under “— Source of Strength” above.  

Resolution Plan. The FDIC issued a rule requiring each insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in assets, such as GS Bank USA, to provide a resolution plan. Similar to our resolution plan for Group Inc., our resolution plan for GS Bank USA must, among other things, demonstrate that it is adequately protected from risks arising from our other entities. GS Bank USA submitted its 2013 resolution plan to its regulators in September 2013 and its 2014 resolution plan in June 2014. In December 2014, the FDIC issued guidance relating to insured depository institutions’ resolution plans. GS Bank USA’s 2015 resolution plan is required to be submitted on or before July 1, 2015. 

Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding Company  

Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act of 1950, if the FDIC is appointed as conservator or receiver for an insured depository institution such as GS Bank USA, upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has broad powers, including the power:  

 Ÿ    To transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor, including a newly formed “bridge” bank, without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors;  

 Ÿ    To enforce the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms without regard to any provisions triggered by the appointment of the FDIC in that capacity; or  

 Ÿ    To repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution.  

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims, including deposits at non-U.S. branches and claims of debt holders of the institution, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of GS Bank USA, the debt holders (other than depositors) would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors of GS Bank USA.  

The Dodd-Frank Act created a new resolution regime (known as “orderly liquidation authority”) for bank holding companies and their affiliates that are systemically important and certain non-bank financial companies. Under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver for the systemically important institution and its failed non-bank subsidiaries if, among other conditions, it is determined at the time of the institution’s failure that it is in default or in danger of default and the failure poses a risk to the stability of the U.S. financial system. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   17 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

If the FDIC is appointed as receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, then the powers of the receiver, and the rights and obligations of creditors and other parties who have dealt with the institution, would be determined under the orderly liquidation authority, and not under the bankruptcy or insolvency law that would otherwise apply. The powers of the receiver under the orderly liquidation authority were generally based on the powers of the FDIC as receiver for depository institutions under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist between the orderly liquidation authority and the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, including the right of the FDIC under the orderly liquidation authority to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors’ claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to transfer claims to a “bridge” entity. In addition, the orderly liquidation authority limits the ability of creditors to enforce certain contractual cross-defaults against affiliates of the institution in receivership.  

The orderly liquidation authority provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective upon enactment. The FDIC has completed several rulemakings and taken other actions under the orderly liquidation authority, including the issuance of a notice in December 2013 describing some elements of its “single point of entry” or “SPOE” strategy pursuant to the orderly liquidation authority provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Under this strategy, the FDIC would, among other things, resolve a failed financial holding company by transferring its assets to a “bridge” holding company.  

In November 2014, we, along with a number of other major global banking organizations, adhered to a new International Swaps and Derivatives Association Resolution Stay Protocol (the ISDA Protocol) that was developed in coordination with the Financial Stability Board and that took effect in January 2015. The ISDA Protocol imposes a stay on certain cross-default and early termination rights within standard ISDA derivatives contracts between adhering parties in the event that one of them is subject to resolution in its home jurisdiction, including a resolution under the orderly liquidation authority in the United States. The ISDA Protocol is expected to be adopted more broadly in the future, following the adoption of regulations by banking regulators, and expanded to include instances where a U.S. financial holding company becomes subject to proceedings under the U.S. bankruptcy code. 

Broker-Dealer and Securities Regulation  

Goldman Sachs’ broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods, trade practices, use and safekeeping of clients’ funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping, the financing of clients’ purchases, and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. In the United States, the SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration of the federal securities laws. GS&Co. is registered as a broker-dealer, a municipal advisor and an investment adviser with the SEC and as a broker-dealer in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA and the NYSE, adopt rules that apply to, and examine, broker-dealers such as GS&Co.  

In addition, state securities and other regulators also have regulatory or oversight authority over GS&Co. Similarly, our businesses are also subject to regulation by various non-U.S. governmental and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in virtually all countries where we have offices, as discussed further under “Other Regulation” below. GSEC and one of its subsidiaries are registered U.S. broker-dealers and are regulated by the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA. For a discussion of net capital requirements applicable to GS&Co. and GSEC, see Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the 2014 Form 10-K.  

Our exchange-based market-making activities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of securities exchanges. As a market maker on exchanges, we are required to maintain orderly markets in the securities to which we are assigned.  

The Dodd-Frank Act will result in additional regulation by the SEC, the CFTC and other regulators of our broker-dealer and regulated subsidiaries in a number of respects. The legislation calls for the imposition of expanded standards of care by market participants in dealing with clients and customers, including by providing the SEC with authority to adopt rules establishing fiduciary duties for broker-dealers and directing the SEC to examine and improve sales practices and disclosure by broker-dealers and investment advisers. 

 18   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Our broker-dealer and other subsidiaries will also be affected by rules recently adopted by federal agencies pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act that require any person who organizes or initiates an asset-backed security transaction to retain a portion (generally, at least five percent) of any credit risk that the person conveys to a third party. Securitizations will also be affected by rules proposed by the SEC in September 2011 to implement the Dodd-Frank Act’s prohibition against securitization participants engaging in any transaction that would involve or result in any material conflict of interest with an investor in a securitization transaction. The proposed rules would exempt bona fide market-making activities and risk-mitigating hedging activities in connection with securitization activities from the general prohibition.  

The SEC, FINRA and regulators in various non-U.S. jurisdictions have imposed both conduct-based and disclosure-based requirements with respect to research reports and research analysts and may impose additional regulations.  

Swaps, Derivatives and Commodities Regulation  

The commodity futures, commodity options and swaps industry in the United States is subject to regulation under the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act. The CFTC is the federal agency charged with the administration of the CEA. In addition, the SEC is the federal agency charged with the regulation of security-based swaps. Several of Goldman Sachs’ subsidiaries, including GS&Co. and GSEC, are registered with the CFTC and act as futures commission merchants, commodity pool operators, commodity trading advisors or (as discussed below) swap dealers, and are subject to CFTC regulations. The rules and regulations of various self-regulatory organizations, such as the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, other futures exchanges and the National Futures Association, also govern the commodity futures, commodity options and swaps activities of these entities. In addition, Goldman Sachs Financial Markets, L.P. is registered with the SEC as an OTC derivatives dealer and conducts certain OTC derivatives activities. 

The Dodd-Frank Act provides for significantly increased regulation of, and restrictions on, derivative markets and transactions. In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes the following requirements relating to swaps and security-based swaps:  

 Ÿ    Real-time public and regulatory reporting of trade information for swaps and security-based swaps and large trader reporting for swaps;  

 Ÿ    Registration of swap dealers and major swap participants with the CFTC and of security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants with the SEC;  

 Ÿ    Position limits that cap exposure to derivatives on certain physical commodities;  

 Ÿ    Mandated clearing through central counterparties and execution through regulated exchanges or electronic facilities for certain swaps and security-based swaps;  

 Ÿ    New business conduct standards and other requirements for swap dealers, major swap participants, security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants, covering their relationships with counterparties, internal oversight and compliance structures, conflict of interest rules, internal information barriers, general and trade-specific record-keeping and risk management;  

 Ÿ    Margin requirements for trades that are not cleared through a central counterparty; and  

 Ÿ    Entity-level capital requirements for swap dealers, major swap participants, security-based swap dealers, and major security-based swap participants.  

The terms “swaps” and “security-based swaps” are generally defined broadly for purposes of these requirements, and can include a wide variety of derivative instruments in addition to those conventionally called swaps. The definition includes certain forward contracts, options, certain loan participations and guarantees of swaps, subject to certain exceptions, and relates to a wide variety of underlying assets or obligations, including currencies, commodities, interest or other monetary rates, yields, indices, securities, credit events, loans and other financial obligations. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   19 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

The CFTC is responsible for issuing rules relating to swaps, swap dealers and major swap participants, and the SEC is responsible for issuing rules relating to security-based swaps, security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants. Although the CFTC has not yet finalized its margin requirements or capital regulations, certain of the requirements, including registration of swap dealers, mandatory clearing of certain swaps, business conduct standards and real-time public trade reporting, have taken effect already under CFTC rules, and the SEC and the CFTC have finalized the definitions of a number of key terms. Finally, the CFTC has commenced making determinations regarding which swaps must be traded on swap execution facilities or exchanges, and certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps are now subject to these trade-execution requirements. The CFTC is expected to continue to make such determinations during 2015.  

In September 2014, the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies (acting jointly) and the CFTC issued separate but similar proposals that would impose mandatory margining requirements for certain swaps that are not cleared.  

The SEC has proposed rules to impose margin, capital and segregation requirements for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants. The SEC has also proposed rules relating to registration of security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants, trade reporting and real-time reporting, and business conduct requirements for security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants. The SEC has proposed, but not yet finalized, rules that would govern the design of new trading venues for security-based swaps and establish the process for determining which products must be traded on these venues.  

We have registered certain subsidiaries as “swap dealers” under the CFTC rules, including GS&Co., GS Bank USA, GSI and J. Aron & Company. We expect that these entities, and our businesses more broadly, will be subject to significant and developing regulation and regulatory oversight in connection with swap-related activities. 

Similar regulations have been proposed or adopted in jurisdictions outside the United States, including the adoption of standardized execution and clearing, margining and reporting requirements for OTC derivatives. For instance, the EU has established regulatory requirements for OTC derivatives activities under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, including requirements relating to portfolio reconciliation and reporting, which have already taken effect, as well as requirements relating to clearing and margining for uncleared derivatives, which are currently expected to be finalized during 2015.  

The full application of new derivatives rules across different national and regulatory jurisdictions has not yet been fully established. In July 2013, the CFTC finalized guidance and timing on the cross-border regulation of swaps and announced that it had reached an understanding with the European Commission regarding the cross-border regulation of derivatives and the common goals underlying their respective regulations. In June 2014, the SEC issued rules and guidance on cross-border security-based swap activities. However, specific determinations of the extent to which regulators in each of the relevant jurisdictions will defer to regulations in other jurisdictions have not yet been completed. The full impact of the various U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory developments in this area will not be known with certainty until all the rules are finalized and implemented and market practices and structures develop under the final rules.  

J. Aron & Company is authorized by the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to sell wholesale physical power at market-based rates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer, J. Aron & Company is subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal Power Act and FERC regulations and to the oversight of FERC. As a result of our investing activities, Group Inc. is also an “exempt holding company” under the U.S. Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 and applicable FERC rules.  

In addition, as a result of our power-related and commodities activities, we are subject to energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, as discussed under “Risk Factors — Our commodities activities, particularly our physical commodities activities, subject us to extensive regulation and involve certain potential risks, including environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant liabilities and costs” in Part I, Item 1A of the 2014 Form 10-K. 

 20   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Investment Management Regulation  

Our investment management business is subject to significant regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets, offerings of funds, marketing activities, transactions among affiliates and our management of client funds.  

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with, and subject to oversight by, the SEC as investment advisers. In July 2014, the SEC adopted amendments to the rules that govern SEC-registered money market mutual funds. The new rules require institutional prime money market funds to value their portfolio securities using market-based factors and to sell and redeem their shares based on a floating net asset value. In addition, the rules allow, in certain circumstances, for the board of directors of money market mutual funds to impose liquidity fees and redemption gates and also require additional disclosure, reporting and stress testing. We are currently evaluating the impact of the rules. The firm’s money market mutual funds will be required to comply with the amendments relating to floating net asset value, fees and redemption gates in 2016, with certain reporting requirements becoming effective in 2015.  

Other Regulation  

The U.S. and non-U.S. government agencies, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions and other state regulators in the United States, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, or the suspension or expulsion of a regulated entity or its directors, officers or employees. In addition, a number of our other activities require us to obtain licenses, adhere to applicable regulations and be subject to the oversight of various regulators in the jurisdictions in which we conduct these activities. Regulatory oversight has been increasing, as well as the level of fines and penalties imposed by regulatory agencies. Our subsidiaries are subject to various and numerous requests for information, investigations and proceedings, and sanctions have been imposed for infractions of various regulations relating to our activities. 

In Europe, we provide investment services that are subject to oversight by national regulators as well as EU regulators. These investment services are regulated in accordance with national laws, many of which implement EU directives, and increasingly by directly applicable EU regulations. These national and EU laws require, among other things, compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer protection requirements and market conduct and trade reporting rules.  

We provide investment services in and from the United Kingdom under the regulation of the PRA and the FCA. GSI, our regulated U.K. broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements imposed by the PRA. Other subsidiaries, including Goldman Sachs International Bank (GSIB), our regulated U.K. bank, are also regulated by the PRA and the FCA. As of December 2014, GSI and GSIB were in compliance with the PRA capital requirements. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Equity Capital Management and Regulatory Capital — Subsidiary Capital Requirements” in Part II, Item 7 of the 2014 Form 10-K for information about GSI’s capital ratios.  

Various of our other entities are regulated by the banking and securities regulatory authorities of the European countries in which they operate, including, among others, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and the Bundesbank in Germany, the Autorité de Contrôle Prudentiel and the Autorité des Marchés Financiers in France, the Central Bank of the Russian Federation and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority. In November 2014, a new Single Supervisory Mechanism became effective, under which the European Central Bank and national supervisors both have certain regulatory responsibilities for banks in participating EU member states. While the U.K. does not participate in this new mechanism, it gives new powers to the European Central Bank to take regulatory action with regard to the firm’s banks in Germany and France. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   21 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

The EU finalized the Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation and a revision of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, both of which will become effective in January 2017. These will include new market structure-related, reporting, investor protection-related and organizational requirements, including requirements on pre- and post-trade transparency, requirements to use certain venues when trading financial instruments (which includes certain derivative instruments), requirements affecting the way investment managers can obtain research, powers of regulators to impose position limits and provisions on regulatory sanctions.  

The EU and national financial legislators and regulators have proposed or adopted numerous further market reforms that may impact our businesses. These include stricter capital and liquidity requirements, including finalized legislation to implement Basel III capital requirements for certain of our EU subsidiaries (such as GSI). These market reforms also include rules on the separation of certain trading activities from deposit taking and on indices that are used as benchmarks for financial instruments or funds. In addition, the European Commission, the European Securities Market Authority and the European Banking Authority have announced or are formulating regulatory standards and other measures which will impact our European operations. Certain Goldman Sachs entities are also regulated by the European securities, derivatives and commodities exchanges of which they are members.  

In September 2011, the European Commission published a draft proposal for a common system of financial transactions tax. The proposed financial transactions tax is broad in scope and would apply to transactions in a wide variety of financial instruments and derivatives. The draft legislation is still subject to agreement by the EU member states, as well as legislative approval, and the full impact of the proposal will not be known until the legislation is finalized. 

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanese broker-dealer, is subject to the capital requirements imposed by Japan’s Financial Services Agency. As of December 2014, GSJCL was in compliance with its capital adequacy requirements. GSJCL is also regulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the Japan Securities Dealers Association, the Tokyo Commodity Exchange, Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission, Bank of Japan, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, among others.  

Also, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the Korean Financial Supervisory Service, the Reserve Bank of India, the Securities and Exchange Board of India, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission and the Australian Securities Exchange, among others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and also have capital standards and other requirements comparable to the rules of the SEC. Various other Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and regulatory authorities in jurisdictions in which Goldman Sachs operates, including, among others, Brazil and Dubai.  

The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (PATRIOT Act), contains anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandated the implementation of various regulations applicable to all financial institutions, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor client transactions and report suspicious activities. Through these and other provisions, the BSA and the PATRIOT Act seek to promote the identification of parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious activities. Anti-money laundering laws outside the United States contain some similar provisions. 

 22   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, relating to corrupt and illegal payments to, and hiring practices with regard to, government officials and others. The obligation of financial institutions, including Goldman Sachs, to identify their clients, to monitor for and report suspicious transactions, to monitor direct and indirect payments to government officials, to respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and to share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls that have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs, and any failure with respect to our programs in this area could subject us to substantial liability and regulatory fines.  

As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based upon its underlying risk.  

Certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the EU or other jurisdictions and/or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. 

Available Information  

Our internet address is www.gs.com and the investor relations section of our web site is located at www.gs.com/shareholders. We make available free of charge through the investor relations section of our web site, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our web site, and available in print upon request of any shareholder to our Investor Relations Department, are our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, charters for our Audit Committee, Risk Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance, Nominating and Public Responsibilities Committee, our Policy Regarding Director Independence Determinations, our Policy on Reporting of Concerns Regarding Accounting and Other Matters, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers and employees. Within the time period required by the SEC, we will post on our web site any amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to any executive officer, director or senior financial officer.  

In addition, our web site includes information concerning:  

 Ÿ    Purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive officers and directors;  

 Ÿ    Disclosure relating to certain non-GAAP financial measures (as defined in the SEC’s Regulation G) that we may make public orally, telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means from time to time;  

 Ÿ    Dodd-Frank Act stress test results; and  

 Ÿ    The firm’s risk management practices and regulatory capital ratios, as required under the disclosure-related provisions of the Revised Capital Framework, which are based on the third pillar of Basel III.  

Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 200 West Street, 29th Floor, New York, New York 10282, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone: 212-902-0300, e-mail: gs-investor-relations@gs.com. 

     Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K   23 

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

  Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995        

We have included or incorporated by reference in the 2014 Form 10-K, and from time to time our management may make, statements that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements include statements other than historical information or statements of current condition and may relate to our future plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may also include statements about the effect of changes to the capital and leverage rules applicable to banks and bank holding companies, the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our businesses and operations, and various legal proceedings or mortgage-related contingencies as set forth under “Legal Proceedings” and “Certain Mortgage-Related Contingencies” in Notes 27 and 18, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the 2014 Form 10-K, as well as statements about the results of our Dodd-Frank Act and firm stress tests, statements about the objectives and effectiveness of our business continuity plan, information security program, risk management and liquidity policies, statements about trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, statements about our future status, activities or reporting under U.S. or non-U.S. banking and financial regulation, and statements about our investment banking transaction backlog.  

By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ from those indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among others, those discussed below and under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the 2014 Form 10-K. 

In the case of statements about our investment banking transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the risk that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues, if any, that we actually earn from these transactions may differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected. Important factors that could result in a modification of the terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline or continued weakness in general economic conditions, outbreak of hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions, a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors that could adversely affect our investment banking transactions, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of the 2014 Form 10-K.  

We have voluntarily provided in this filing information regarding the firm’s capital ratios, including the estimated CET1 ratios under the Advanced and Standardized approaches on a fully phased-in basis, as well as the LCR and estimated supplementary leverage ratios for the firm and GS Bank USA. The statements with respect to these estimated ratios are forward-looking statements, based on our current interpretation, expectations and understandings of the relevant regulatory rules and guidance, and reflect significant assumptions concerning the treatment of various assets and liabilities and the manner in which the ratios are calculated. As a result, the methods used to calculate these ratios may differ, possibly materially, from those used in calculating the estimates for any future voluntary disclosures as well as those used when such ratios are required to be disclosed. The ultimate methods of calculating the ratios will depend on, among other things, implementation guidance or further rulemaking from the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies and the development of market practices and standards. 

 24   Goldman Sachs 2014 Form 10-K     

Table of Contents 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  

Item 1A. Risk Factors