Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Introduction 

The following discussion and analysis should be read together with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. Further, this report may contain material that includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that reflect, when made, Nielsen’s current views with respect to current events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Statements, other than those based on historical facts, which address activities, events or developments that we expect or anticipate may occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are and will be, as the case may be, subject to many risks, uncertainties and factors relating to Nielsen’s operations and business environment that may cause actual results to be materially different from any future results, express or implied, by such forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The terms “Company,” “Nielsen,” “we,” “our” or “us,” as used herein, refer to Nielsen Holdings N.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries unless otherwise stated or indicated by context. 

23 

Background and Executive Summary 

We are a global information and measurement company that provides clients with a comprehensive understanding of consumers and consumer behavior. We deliver critical media and marketing information, analytics and industry expertise about what consumers buy (referred to herein as “Buy”) and what consumers watch and listen to on a global and local basis (consumer interaction across the television, radio, online and mobile viewing and listening platforms referred to herein as “Watch”). Our information, insights and solutions help our clients maintain and strengthen their market positions and identify opportunities for profitable growth. We have a presence in more than 100 countries, including many developing and emerging markets, and hold leading market positions in many of our services and geographies. 

On September 30, 2013, we completed the acquisition of Arbitron Inc., an international media and marketing research firm through the purchase of 100% of Arbitron’s outstanding common stock for a total cash purchase price of $1.3 billion Arbitron is expected to help us better address client needs in unmeasured areas of media consumption, including streaming audio and out-of-home, and our global distribution footprint can help expand Arbitron’s capabilities outside of the U.S. With Arbitron’s assets, we intend to further expand our Watch segment’s audience measurement across screens and forms of listening. Arbitron has been rebranded Nielsen Audio. 

On February 3, 2014, we completed the tender offer to acquire all outstanding shares of common stock of Harris Interactive, Inc. (HPOL) a leading global market research firm for $2.04 per share (total purchase price of $116 million).

We believe that important measures of our results of operations include revenue, operating income and Adjusted EBITDA (defined below). Our long-term financial objectives include consistent revenue growth and expanding operating margins. Accordingly, we are focused on geographic market and service offering expansion to drive revenue growth and improving operating efficiencies including effective resource utilization, information technology leverage and overhead cost management. 

Our business strategy is built upon a model that has traditionally yielded consistent revenue performance. Typically, before the start of each year, approximately 70% of our annual revenue has been committed under contracts in our combined Buy and Watch segments, which provides us with a high degree of stability to our revenue and allows us to effectively manage our profitability and cash flows. We continue to look for growth opportunities through global expansion, specifically within developing markets, as well as through the cross-platform expansion of our insights services and measurement services. 

Our restructuring and other productivity initiatives have been focused on a combination of improving operating leverage through targeted cost-reduction programs, business process improvements and portfolio restructuring actions, while at the same time investing in key programs to enhance future growth opportunities. 

Achieving our business objectives requires us to manage a number of key risk areas. Our growth objective of geographic market and service expansion requires us to maintain the consistency and integrity of our information and underlying processes on a global scale, and to invest effectively our capital in technology and infrastructure to keep pace with our clients’ demands and our competitors. Our operating footprint across more than 100 countries requires disciplined global and local resource management of internal and third party providers to ensure success. In addition, our high level of indebtedness requires active management of our debt profile, with a focus on underlying maturities, interest rate risk, liquidity and operating cash flows.

Business Segment Overview 

We align our business into two reporting segments: what consumers buy (consumer purchasing measurement and analytics), and what consumers watch and listen to (media audience measurement and analytics). Our Buy and Watch segments are built on a foundation of proprietary data assets that are designed to yield essential insights for our clients to successfully measure, analyze and grow their businesses. 

Our Buy segment provides Information services, which include our core tracking and scan data (primarily transactional measurement data and consumer behavior information), and Insights services (primarily comprised of our analytical solutions) to businesses in the consumer packaged goods industry. Our services also enable our clients to better manage their brands, uncover new sources of demand, launch and grow new products, analyze their sales, improve their marketing mix and establish more effective consumer relationships. Our data is used by our clients to measure their market share, tracking billions of sales transactions per month in retail outlets around the world. Our extensive database of retail and consumer information, combined with our advanced analytical capabilities, helps generate strategic insights that influence our clients’ key business decisions. Within our Buy segment, we have two primary geographic groups, developed and developing markets. Developed markets primarily include the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan and Australia while developing markets include Africa, Latin America, Eastern Europe, Russia, China, India and Southeast Asia. 

24 

Our Watch segment provides viewership and listening data and analytics primarily to the media and advertising industries across the television, radio, online and mobile viewing and listening platforms. Our Watch data is used by our media clients to understand their audiences, establish the value of their advertising inventory and maximize the value of their content, and by our advertising clients to plan and optimize their spending. 

In March 2013, we completed the exit and shut down of one of our legacy online businesses and recorded a net loss of $3 million associated with this divestiture. The consolidated statements of operations reflect the operating results of this business as a discontinued operation.

 In June 2013, we completed the sale of our Expositions reporting segment (see “Discontinued Operations” discussion included in “Factors Affecting Our Financial Results” for more information). Our consolidated statements of operations reflect the Expositions reporting segment as a discontinued operation.

Certain corporate costs, other than those described above, including those related to selling, finance, legal, human resources, and information technology systems, are considered operating costs and are allocated to our segments based on either the actual amount of costs incurred or on a basis consistent with the operations of the underlying segment. 

Critical Accounting Policies 

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The most significant of these estimates relate to: revenue recognition; business combinations including purchase price allocations; accruals for pension costs and other post-retirement benefits; accounting for income taxes; and valuation of long-lived assets including goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, computer software and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the valuation of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. Actual results could vary from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. For a summary of the significant accounting policies, including critical accounting policies discussed below, see Note 1 – “Description of Business, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies” – to our consolidated financial statements. 

Revenue Recognition 

We recognize revenues when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, services have been rendered or information has been delivered, the fee is fixed or determinable and the collectability of the related revenue is reasonably assured. 

A significant portion of our revenue is generated from information (primarily retail measurement and consumer panel services) and measurement (primarily from television, radio, internet and mobile audiences) services. We generally recognize revenue from the sale of services as the services are performed, which is usually ratably over the term of the contract(s). Invoiced amounts are recorded as deferred revenue until earned. Substantially all of our customer contracts are non-cancelable and non-refundable. 

Certain of our revenue arrangements include multiple deliverables and in these arrangements, the individual deliverables within the contract that have stand-alone value to the customer are separated and recognized upon delivery based upon our best estimate of their selling prices. These arrangements are not significant to our results of operations. In certain cases, software is included as part of these arrangements to allow our customers to view delivered information and is provided for the term of the arrangement and is not significant to the marketing effort and is not sold separately. Accordingly, software provided to our customers is considered to be incidental to the arrangements and is not recognized as a separate element. 

A discussion of our revenue recognition policies, by segment, follows: 

Buy 

Revenue from our Buy segment, primarily from retail measurement services and consumer panel services, is recognized over the period during which the services are performed and information is delivered to the customer, primarily on a straight line basis. 

We provide insights and solutions to customers through analytical studies that are recognized into revenue as value is delivered to the customer. The pattern of revenue recognition for these contracts varies depending on the terms of the individual contracts, and may be recognized proportionally or deferred until the end of the contract term and recognized when the information has been delivered to the customer. 

25 

Watch 

Revenue from our Watch segment is primarily generated from television, radio, online and mobile measurement services and recognized over the contract period, as the service is delivered to the customer, primarily on a straight-line basis. 

Stock-Based Compensation 

Expense Recognition 

Our stock-based compensation programs are comprised of both stock options and restricted stock units ( “RSUs”). We measure the cost of all stock-based payments, including stock options, at fair value on the grant date and recognize such costs within the consolidated statements of operations; however, no expense is recognized for stock-based payments that do not ultimately vest. We recognize expense associated with stock-based payments that vest upon a single date using the straight-line method. For those that vest over time, an accelerated graded vesting is used. We recorded $47 million, $34 million and $27 million of expense associated with stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, the aggregate grant date fair value of all outstanding vested and unvested options was $67 million and $56 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $26 million of unearned stock-based compensation related to unvested RSUs (net of estimated forfeitures) is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 3.3 years. 

Fair Value Measurement 

Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires considerable judgment. Stock-based compensation expense for stock options is primarily based on the estimated grant date fair value using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which considers factors such as estimating the expected term of stock options, expected volatility of our stock, and the number of stock-based awards expected to be forfeited due to future terminations. Some of the critical assumptions used in estimating the grant date fair value are presented in the table below: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, for stock-based awards where vesting is dependent upon achieving certain operating performance goals, we estimate the likelihood of achieving the performance goals. Differences between actual results and these estimates could have a material effect on our financial results. We consider several factors in estimating the expected life of our options granted, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees, which we believe are representative of future behavior. For 2013, expected volatility was based on our historical volatility. For 2012 and 2011, because of the Company’s limited trading history, expected volatility was based on a combination of the estimates of implied volatility of our peer group, our historical volatility adjusted for leverage and the implied volatility based on trading Nielsen call options. 

The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based awards represent our best estimates and, although we believe them to be reasonable, these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management’s judgment. If factors change and we employ different assumptions in the application of our option-pricing model in future periods or if we experience different forfeiture rates, the compensation expense that is derived may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current year. 

Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets 

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any. 

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting of certain trade names and trademarks, are each tested for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such asset may not be recoverable. We have designated October 1st as the date in which the annual assessment is performed as this timing corresponds with the development of our formal budget and business plan review. We review the recoverability of our goodwill by comparing the estimated fair values of reporting units with their respective carrying amounts. We established, and continue to evaluate, our reporting units based on our internal reporting structure and define such reporting units at our operating segment level or one level below. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit are determined using a combination of valuation techniques, primarily by an income approach using a discounted cash flow analysis and supplemented by a market-based approach. 

26 

A discounted cash flow analysis requires the use of various assumptions, including expectations of future cash flows, growth rates, discount rates and tax rates in developing the present value of future cash flow projections. Many of the factors used in assessing fair value are outside of the control of management, and these assumptions and estimates can change in future periods. Changes in assumptions or estimates could materially affect the determination of the fair value of a reporting unit, and therefore could affect the amount of potential impairment. The following assumptions are significant to our discounted cash flow analysis: 

·

Business projections – expected future cash flows and growth rates are based on assumptions about the level of business activity in the marketplace as well as applicable cost levels that drive our budget and business plans. The budget and business plans are updated at least annually and are frequently reviewed by management and our board of directors. Actual results of operations, cash flows and other factors will likely differ from the estimates used in our valuation, and it is possible that differences and changes could be material. A deterioration in profitability, adverse market conditions and a slower or weaker economic recovery than currently estimated by management could have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and could result in an impairment charge in the future. Should such events or circumstances arise, management would evaluate other options available at that time that, if executed, could result in future profitability. 

·

Long-term growth rates – the assumed long-term growth rate representing the expected rate at which a reporting unit’s earnings stream, beyond that of the budget and business plan period, is projected to grow. These rates are used to calculate the terminal value, or value at the end of the future earnings stream, of our reporting units, and are added to the cash flows projected for the budget and business plan period. The long-term growth rate for each reporting unit is influenced by general market conditions as well as factors specific to the reporting unit such as the maturity of the underlying services. The long-term growth rates we used for our reporting units were between 2% and 4%. 

·

Discount rates – the reporting unit’s combined future cash flows are discounted at a rate that is consistent with a weighted-average cost of capital that is likely to be used by market participants. The weighted-average cost of capital is our estimate of the overall after-tax rate of return required by equity and debt holders of a business enterprise. The discount rate for each reporting unit is influenced by general market conditions as well as factors specific to the reporting unit. The discount rates we used for our reporting units were between 9.0% and 13.5%. 

These estimates and assumptions vary between each reporting unit depending on the facts and circumstances specific to that unit. We believe that the estimates and assumptions we made are reasonable, but they are susceptible to change from period to period. 

We also use a market-based approach in estimating the fair value of our reporting units. The market-based approach utilizes available market comparisons such as indicative industry multiples that are applied to current year revenue and earnings as well as recent comparable transactions. 

To validate the reasonableness of the reporting unit fair values, we reconcile the aggregate fair values of our reporting units to our enterprise market capitalization. Enterprise market capitalization includes, among other factors, the market value of our common stock and the appropriate redemption values of our debt. 

During 2013 we updated our reporting structure in a manner that changed the composition of our reporting units. As a result of this change in reporting units, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis during 2013 immediately prior to the change and determined the estimated fair values of the impacted reporting units exceeded their carrying value (including goodwill). As such, there was no impairment as a result of this change. 

We did not have any indicators of impairment during the year ended December 31, 2013 that would require us to perform an interim impairment assessment. Our annual impairment assessment, performed as of October 1, 2013, was based on the updated reporting structure and resulted in no impairment. Further all six reporting units have fair values exceeding carrying values by at least 20% as of the annual impairment assessment date. 

We perform sensitivity analyses on our assumptions, primarily around both long-term growth rate and discount rate assumptions. Our sensitivity analyses include several combinations of reasonably possible scenarios with regard to these assumptions. However, we consistently test a one percent movement in both our long-term growth rate and discount rate assumptions. When applying these sensitivity analyses, we noted that the fair value was greater than the underlying book value for all of our reporting units. While management believes that these sensitivity analyses provide a reasonable basis on which to evaluate the recovery of our goodwill, other facts or circumstances may arise that could impact the impairment assessment and therefore these analyses should not be used as a sole predictor of impairment.

27 

The impairment test for other indefinite-lived intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The estimates of fair value of trade names and trademarks are determined using a “relief from royalty” discounted cash flow valuation methodology. Significant assumptions inherent in this methodology include estimates of royalty rates and discount rates. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the respective intangible assets. Assumptions about royalty rates are based on the rates at which comparable trade names and trademarks are being licensed in the marketplace. 

Pension Costs 

We provide a number of retirement benefits to our employees, including defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical plans. Pension costs, in respect of defined benefit pension plans, primarily represent the increase in the actuarial present value of the obligation for pension benefits based on employee service during the year and the interest on this obligation in respect of employee service in previous years, net of the expected return on plan assets. Differences between this expected return and the actual return on these plan assets and actuarial changes are not recognized in the statement of operations, unless the accumulated differences and changes exceed a certain threshold. The excess is amortized and charged to the statement of operations over, at the maximum, the average remaining term of employee service. We recognize obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans as expenses in the statement of operations as they are incurred. 

The determination of benefit obligations and expenses is based on actuarial models. In order to measure benefit costs and obligations using these models, critical assumptions are made with regard to the discount rate, the expected return on plan assets and the assumed rate of compensation increases. We provide retiree medical benefits to a limited number of participants in the U.S. and have ceased to provide retiree health care benefits to certain of our Dutch retirees. Therefore, retiree medical care cost trend rates are not a significant driver of our post retirement costs. Management reviews these critical assumptions at least annually. Other assumptions involve demographic factors such as turnover, retirement and mortality rates. Management reviews these assumptions periodically and updates them as necessary. 

The discount rate is the rate at which the benefit obligations could be effectively settled. For our U.S. plans, the discount rate is based on a bond portfolio that includes only long-term bonds with an Aa rating, or equivalent, from a major rating agency. For the Dutch and other non-U.S. plans, the discount rate is set by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds. We believe the timing and amount of cash flows related to the bonds in these portfolios are expected to match the estimated payment benefit streams of our plans. 

To determine the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, we consider, for each country, the structure of the asset portfolio and the expected rates of return for each of the components. For our U.S. plans, a 50 basis point decrease in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense on our principal plans by approximately $1 million per year. A similar 50 basis point decrease in the expected return on assets would increase pension expense on our principal Dutch plans by approximately $3 million per year. We assumed that the weighted-averages of long-term returns on our pension plans were 6.0%, 6.2% and 6.3% for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The actual return on plan assets will vary year to year from this assumption. Although the actual return on plan assets will vary from year to year, we believe it is appropriate to use long-term expected forecasts in selecting our expected return on plan assets. As such, there can be no assurance that our actual return on plan assets will approximate the long-term expected forecasts. 

Income Taxes 

We have a presence in more than 100 countries. We have completed many material acquisitions and divestitures which have generated complex tax issues requiring management to use its judgment to make various tax determinations. We try to organize the affairs of our subsidiaries in a tax efficient manner, taking into consideration the jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we are confident that tax returns have been appropriately prepared and filed, there is risk that additional tax may be assessed on certain transactions or that the deductibility of certain expenditures may be disallowed for tax purposes. Our policy is to estimate tax risk to the best of our ability and provide accordingly for those risks and take positions in which a high degree of confidence exists that the tax treatment will be accepted by the tax authorities. The policy with respect to deferred taxation is to provide in full for temporary differences using the liability method. 

Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are computed by assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. The carrying value of deferred tax assets is adjusted by a valuation allowance to the extent that these deferred tax assets are not considered to be realized on a more likely than not basis. Realization of deferred tax assets is based, in part, on our judgment and various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, our ability to generate future taxable income in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen and potential tax planning strategies. Valuation allowances are recorded in order to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized in the future. 

28 

Long-Lived Assets 

We are required to assess whether the value of our long-lived assets, including our buildings, improvements, technical and other equipment, and amortizable intangible assets have been impaired whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. We do not perform a periodic assessment of assets for impairment in the absence of such information or indicators. Conditions that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used or a significant adverse change that would indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets is not recoverable. Recoverability of assets that are held and used is measured by comparing the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to be derived from an asset (or a group of assets) to their carrying value. If the carrying value of the asset (or the group of assets) exceeds the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows, impairment is considered to exist. If impairment is considered to exist based on undiscounted cash flows, the impairment charge is measured using an estimation of the assets’ fair value, typically using a discounted cash flow method. The identification of impairment indicators, the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of fair values for assets (or groups of assets) requires us to make significant judgments concerning the identification and validation of impairment indicators, expected cash flows and applicable discount rates. These estimates are subject to revision as market conditions and our assessments change. No impairment indicators were noted for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. 

We capitalize software development costs with respect to major internal use software initiatives or enhancements. The costs are capitalized from the time that the preliminary project stage is completed, and we consider it probable that the software will be used to perform the function intended until the time the software is placed in service for its intended use. Once the software is placed in service, the capitalized costs are generally amortized over periods of three to seven years. If events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of software may not be recovered, a recoverability analysis is performed based on estimated undiscounted cash flows to be generated from the software in the future. If the analysis indicates that the carrying value is not recoverable from future cash flows, the software cost is written down to estimated fair value and an impairment is recognized. These estimates are subject to revision as market conditions and as our assessments change. We noted no impairment charges at December 31, 2013.

Factors Affecting Nielsen’s Financial Results 

Acquisitions and Investments in Affiliates 

Arbitron Inc. 

On September 30, 2013, we completed the acquisition of Arbitron, through the purchase of 100% of Arbitron’s outstanding common stock for a total cash purchase price of $1.3 billion. Arbitron is expected to help us better address client needs in unmeasured areas of media consumption, including streaming audio and out-of-home, and our global distribution footprint can help expand Arbitron’s capabilities outside of the U.S. With Arbitron’s assets, we intend to further expand our Watch segment’s audience measurement across screens and forms of listening. Arbitron has been rebranded Nielsen Audio. 

As part of the acquisition, we acquired the remaining 49.5% interest in Scarborough Research, a joint venture between us and Arbitron (“Scarborough”) that we historically accounted for under the equity method of accounting. We accounted for this transaction as a step-acquisition and calculated the fair value of the investment immediately before the acquisition to be $75 million. As a result, during the third quarter of 2013, we recorded a $24 million gain on the investment in Scarborough to other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. Commencing October 1, 2013, the financial results of Scarborough were included within our consolidated financial statements.

The acquisition was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires, among other things, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date. Since the date of the acquisition occurred on the last day of the third quarter of 2013, the financial results of Arbitron were included within our consolidated financial statements commencing October 1, 2013. Our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2013 includes $134 million of revenues related to the Arbitron acquisition.

29 

The purchase price was allocated based upon the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition. The following table summarizes the purchase price allocation: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As of the acquisition date, the expected fair value of accounts receivable approximated historical cost. The gross contractual receivable was $64 million, of which $4 million was deemed uncollectible. 

The allocation of the purchase price to goodwill and identified intangible assets was $947 million and $472 million, respectively. All of the Arbitron related goodwill and intangible assets are attributable to our Watch segment. 

Intangible assets and their estimated useful lives consist of the following: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents expected synergies and the going concern nature of Arbitron. 

We incurred acquisition-related expenses of $19 million and $9 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, which primarily consisted of transaction fees, legal, accounting and other professional services that are included in selling, general and administrative expense in the consolidated statement of operations. 

The following unaudited pro forma information presents the consolidated results of our operations and Arbitron’s for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2012, with pro forma adjustments to give effect to amortization of intangible assets, an increase in interest expense from acquisition financing, and certain other adjustments: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The unaudited pro forma results do not reflect any synergies and are not necessarily indicative of the results that we would have attained had the acquisition of Arbitron been completed as of the beginning of the reporting period. 

30 

Other Acquisitions 

For the year ended December 31, 2013, excluding Arbitron, we paid cash consideration of $43 million associated with both current period and previously executed acquisitions, net of cash acquired. Had that period’s acquisitions occurred as of January 1, 2013, the impact on our consolidated results of operations would not have been material. 

For the year ended December 31, 2012, we paid cash consideration of $160 million associated with both current period and previously executed acquisitions, net of cash acquired. Had that period’s acquisitions occurred as of January 1, 2012, the impact on our consolidated results of operations would not have been material. 

For the year ended December 31, 2011, we paid cash consideration of $123 million associated with both current period and previously executed acquisitions, net of cash acquired. Had that period’s acquisitions occurred as of January 1, 2011, the impact on our consolidated results of operations would not have been material. 

Subsequent Event

On February 3, 2014, we completed the tender offer to acquire all outstanding shares of common stock of Harris Interactive, Inc. (HPOL) a leading global market research firm for $2.04 per share (total purchase price of $116 million).

Discontinued Operations 

In June 2013, we completed the sale of our Expositions business, which operates one of the largest portfolios of business-to-business trade shows and conference events in the United States, for total cash consideration of $950 million and recorded a gain of $290 million. The consolidated statements of operations reflect the operating results of this business as a discontinued operation. 

In March 2013, we completed the exit and shut down of one of our legacy online businesses and recorded a net loss of $3 million associated with this divestiture. The consolidated statements of operations reflect the operating results of this business as a discontinued operation. 

Summarized results of operations for discontinued operations are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)

We allocated a portion of our consolidated interest expense to discontinued operations based upon the ratio of net assets sold as a proportion of consolidated net assets. For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, interest expense of $8 million $23 million and $28 million, respectively, and was allocated to discontinued operations.

(2)

The gain for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily related to the Publications property that was previously sold. 

31 

Following are the major categories of cash flows from discontinued operations, as included in our consolidated statements of cash flows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Transactions with Sponsors 

On May 17, 2006, Nielsen, formerly known as Valcon Acquisition Holding B.V., was formed by investment funds associated with the Original Sponsors as a subsidiary of Valcon Acquisition Holding (Luxembourg) S.à r.l. (“Luxco”). On May 24, 2006, The Nielsen Company B.V. (“TNC B.V.”) (formerly VNU Group B.V. and VNU N.V.) was acquired through a tender offer to stockholders by Valcon Acquisition B.V. (“Valcon”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Nielsen (herein referred to as the “Valcon Acquisition”). 

In connection with the Valcon Acquisition, certain of our subsidiaries and the Sponsors entered into Advisory Agreements (the “Sponsor Advisory Agreements”), which provided for an annual management fee, in connection with planning, strategy, oversight and support to management, and were payable quarterly and in advance to each Sponsor, on a pro rata basis, for the eight year duration of the agreements, as well as reimbursements for each Sponsor’s respective out-of-pocket expenses in connection with the management services provided under the agreement (the “Sponsor Advisory Fees”). 

On January 31, 2011, each of our subsidiaries party to the Sponsor Advisory Agreements agreed, along with the Sponsors, to terminate all such agreements in exchange for a settlement of $102 million and we recorded a charge of $61 million (net of tax of $41 million). The pre-tax amount of this charge was recorded as a component of selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statement of operations. 

Foreign Currency 

Our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars and are therefore subject to the impact of movements in exchange rates on the translation of the financial information of individual businesses whose functional currencies are other than U.S. dollars. Our principal foreign exchange revenue exposure is spread across several currencies, primarily the Euro. The table below sets forth the profile of our revenue by principal currency. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As a result, fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar impact our operating results. Impacts associated with fluctuations in foreign currency are discussed in more detail under “Item 7A.—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” In countries with currencies other than the U.S. dollar, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using end-of-period exchange rates; revenues, expenses and cash flows are translated using average rates of exchange. The average U.S. dollar to Euro exchange rate was $1.33 to €1.00, $1.29 to €1.00 and $1.39 to €1.00 for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Constant currency growth rates used in the following discussion of results of operations eliminate the impact of year-over-year foreign currency fluctuations. 

We have operations in both our Buy and Watch segments in Venezuela and the functional currency for these operations was the Venezuelan Bolivares Fuertes. Venezuela’s currency was considered hyperinflationary as of January 1, 2010 and further, in January 2010, Venezuela’s currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. In 2010, we evaluated the new exchange rate system and concluded that the local currency transactions will be denominated in U.S. dollars effective as of January 1, 2010 and until Venezuela’s currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary. 

32 

In February 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency by 32%. The official exchange rate moved from 4.30 to 6.30 and the regulated System of Transactions with Securities in Foreign Currency market was suspended. As a result of this change, we recorded a charge of $12 million in 2013 in foreign currency exchange transaction (losses)/gains, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities.

In January 2014, Venezuela announced the establishment of a dual exchange rate system. A rate of 6.3 Venezuelan Bolivares Fuertes to the US dollar will be applied to priority sectors, such as food and medicine, while other sectors of the economy will apply an exchange rate determined based on the results of the Venezuelan central bank’s system of weekly currency auctions. Nielsen is in the process of analyzing the impact, if any, of this change on its 2014 consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2013, net monetary assets subject to revaluation in Venezuela were $38 million.

We evaluate our results of operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. The constant currency presentation is a non-GAAP financial measure, which excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our results of operations, consistent with how we evaluate our performance. We calculate constant currency percentages by converting our prior-period local currency financial results using the current period foreign currency exchange rates and comparing these adjusted amounts to our current period reported results. This calculation may differ from similarly-titled measures used by others and, accordingly, the constant currency presentation is not meant to be a substitution for recorded amounts presented in conformity with GAAP nor should such amounts be considered in isolation. 

Results of Operations – Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amounts included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA Reconciliation 

We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss from our consolidated statements of operations before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, restructuring charges, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, stock-based compensation expense and other non-operating items from our consolidated statements of operations as well as certain other items specifically described below. 

Adjusted EBITDA is not a presentation made in accordance with GAAP, and our use of the term Adjusted EBITDA may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by others in our industry due to the potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. 

33 

We use Adjusted EBITDA to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. In addition to Adjusted EBITDA being a significant measure of performance for management purposes, we also believe that this presentation provides useful information to investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations and that when non-GAAP financial information is viewed with GAAP financial information, investors are provided with a more meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. 

Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. Adjusted EBITDA has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. 

The below table presents a reconciliation from net income to Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)

For the year ended December 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of Arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs. For the year ended December 31, 2012, other items consist primarily of transaction-related costs. For the year ended December 31, 2011, other items primarily consist of Sponsor Advisory Fees (including termination payments of $102 million), costs related to public offerings and other transaction-related costs. 

Consolidated Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2013 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012 

Revenues 

Revenues increased 5.5% to $5,703 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $5,407 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 6.4% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 0.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact from the acquisition of Arbitron, revenues increased 3.0% (3.9% on a constant currency basis). Revenues within our Buy segment increased 1.9% (3.1% on a constant currency basis) while revenues within our Watch segment increased 11.2% (11.7% on a constant currency basis). Excluding the impact from the acquisition of Arbitron, revenues within our Watch segment increased 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis). 

Cost of Revenues, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization 

Cost of revenues increased 7.8% to $2,398 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $2,225 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 8.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.7% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs within our Buy segment increased 4.9% (5.8% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to investments in the continued global expansion of our services as well as investment in our footprint in the emerging markets. Costs within our Watch segment increased 12.6% (13.2% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the Arbitron acquisition on September 30, 2013 and spending on product portfolio management initiatives. Corporate costs increased by approximately $3 million in 2013 as compared to 2012. 

34 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization 

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased 5.3% to $1,815 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $1,724 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or an increase of 6.1% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 0.8% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs within our Buy segment increased 0.8 % (1.7% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to increases in client service costs and other investments associated with the global expansion of our services. Costs within our Watch segment increased 14.6% (15.5% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to the impact of the Arbitron acquisition on September 30, 2013. Corporate costs increased by $21 million due to higher transaction-related costs. 

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $510 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $493 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase was primarily driven by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with the tangible and intangible assets acquired as part of the Arbitron acquisition on September 30, 2013. Depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations increased to $162 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $145 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 resulting from higher amortization on the assets acquired as part of the Arbitron acquisition on September 30, 2013. 

Restructuring Charges 

We recorded $119 million in restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2013, primarily related to employee severance associated with productivity initiatives and contract termination costs. 

We recorded $85 million in restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2012, of which $5 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance costs associated with employee terminations. 

Operating Income 

Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $861 million compared to operating income of $880 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Operating income of $399 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 within our Buy segment decreased from $403 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Operating income within our Watch segment of $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased from $553 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Corporate operating expenses increased to $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $76 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. 

Interest Expense 

Interest expense was $309 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $390 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The decline primarily related to our refinancing of the 11.5% senior notes and our 8.5% senior secured term loan in the fourth quarter of 2012, the impact of our refinancing of the Class A, B, and C senior secured term loans in February 2013, the maturity of the mandatory convertible debt in February 2013 and the refinancing of the 11.625% senior notes in October 2013. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Transaction Losses, Net 

Foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net loss on revaluation of certain external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, particularly the Euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. The average U.S. Dollar to Euro exchange rate was $1.33 to €1.00 for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $1.29 to €1.00 for the year ended December 31, 2012. 

We incurred $25 million and $17 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The loss in 2013 resulted primarily from the devaluation of the Venezuela Bolivars Fuertes as discussed in the “Foreign Currency” section of the “Factors Affecting Nielsen’s Financial Results” and the fluctuations of certain foreign currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. The loss in 2012 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. 

Other Expense, Net 

The $9 million of other expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2013, consists primarily of the write-off of deferred financing costs and other costs of $12 million associated with the amendment to our Senior Secured Credit Agreement, charges of $12 million associated with the unused bridge loan terminated as part of the Arbitron acquisition and charges of approximately $8 million related to the redemption of all of our 11.625% Senior Notes due 2014, partially offset by the gain of $24 million from the step acquisition of Scarborough. 

35 

The $118 million of other expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2012, consists of charges of $115 million associated with the redemption and retirement of our 11.50% Senior Notes due 2016 and the prepayment of our 8.50% Senior Secured Term Loan due 2017, a $6 million write-down of an investment in an equity security, and a $6 million charge associated with extinguishment of our term loan due in 2013, partially offset by a $10 million gain on the acquisition of a previously nonconsolidated business. 

Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity in Net Income of Affiliates 

Income was $520 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $359 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. 

Income Taxes

The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 18% and 34%, respectively. 

The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2013 was lower than the statutory expense rate due to the favorable impact of certain financing activities and the net release of valuation allowances partially offset by an increase in accruals for our uncertain tax position and tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, US state and local and other withholding taxes. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2012 was higher than the statutory expense rate due to the impact of distributions from foreign subsidiaries, tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, US state and local and other withholding taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, the net release of valuation allowances and changes in deferred tax rates. 

At December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $475 million and $409 million, respectively. We also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 of $52 million and $45 million, respectively. 

Estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. It is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $47 million to $57 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. 

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. 

Adjusted EBITDA 

Adjusted EBITDA increased 7.5% to $1,617 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $1,504 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 8.7% on a constant currency basis. Our Adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 28.35% for the year ended December 31, 2013 from 27.82% for the year ended December 31, 2012. See “Results of Operations – (Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011)” for the reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA. 

Consolidated Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2011 

Revenues 

Revenues increased 1.5% to $5,407 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $5,328 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, or 4.1% on a constant currency basis, which excludes a 2.6% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenues within our Buy segment were flat (an increase of 3.6% on a constant currency basis) while revenues within our Watch segment increased 3.9% (4.8% on a constant currency basis). 

Cost of Revenues, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization 

Cost of revenues increased 1.7% to $2,225 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $2,188 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, or 4.5% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.8% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs within our Buy segment increased 2.4% (6.4% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to investments in the continued global expansion of our services and higher retail measurement costs, substantially offset by favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs within our Watch segment increased 1.0% (1.9% on a constant currency basis) as increases in spending on product portfolio management initiatives more than offset the impact of productivity initiatives and the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates. Corporate costs decreased by approximately $3 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 driven by cost savings initiatives. 

36 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization 

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses decreased 5.7% to $1,724 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $1,829 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, or a decrease of 3.4% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.3% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Costs within our Buy segment decreased 1.4% (an increase of 1.8% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to the impact of productivity initiatives and the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which more than offset increases in client service costs and other investments associated with the global expansion of our services. Costs within our Watch segment were flat (an increase of 1.0% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to increased investment in product development initiatives offset by the favorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Corporate costs decreased by $88 million due to a $102 million charge for the termination and settlement of the Sponsor Advisory Agreements recorded in 2011 offset by higher transaction-related fees in 2012. 

Depreciation and Amortization 

Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations was $493 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to $502 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Depreciation and amortization expense associated with tangible and intangibles assets acquired in business combinations decreased to $145 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $161 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 resulting from lower amortization on purchase price adjustments from the acquisition for certain assets that became fully amortized. The decline was primarily offset by increases in depreciation and amortization expense associated with the timing of capital expenditures versus the prior year. 

Restructuring Charges 

We recorded $85 million in restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2012, of which $5 million related to property lease termination charges with the remainder relating to severance costs associated with employee terminations. 

We recorded $83 million in restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily related to severance costs associated with employee terminations. 

Operating Income 

Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $880 million compared to operating income of $726 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating income of $403 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 within our Buy segment decreased from $424 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating income within our Watch segment of $553 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased from $472 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Corporate operating expenses decreased to $76 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $170 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. 

Interest Expense 

Interest expense was $390 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $449 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The decline primarily related to the impact of debt retirements from our initial public offering of common stock in 2011, lower interest cost on our derivative instruments as well as our debt refinancing of our 11.50% Senior Notes and our 8.50% Senior Secured Term Loan with our 4.50% Senior Notes in the fourth quarter of 2012. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Transaction Losses, Net 

Foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net, represent the net gain or loss on revaluation of certain external debt, intercompany loans and other receivables and payables. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, particularly the Euro, have a significant effect on our operating results. The average U.S. Dollar to Euro exchange rate was $1.29 to €1.00 for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to $1.39 to €1.00 for the year ended December 31, 2011. 

We incurred $17 million and $9 million in net foreign currency exchange losses for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The loss in 2012 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio. The loss in 2011 resulted primarily from fluctuations in certain currencies associated with a portion of our intercompany loan portfolio partially offset by the fluctuation in Japanese Yen as compared to the Euro applied to a debenture loan. 

37 

Other Expense, Net 

The $118 million of other expense, net amount for the year ended December 31, 2012, consists of charges of $115 million associated with the redemption and retirement of our 11.50% Senior Notes due 2016 and the prepayment of our 8.50% Senior Secured Term Loan due 2017, a $6 million write-down of an investment in an equity security, and a $6 million charge associated with extinguishment of our term loan due in 2013, partially offset by a $10 million gain on the acquisition of a previously nonconsolidated business. 

The $210 million of other expense, net amount for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes charges of $231 million associated with the redemption and subsequent retirement of certain indebtedness through the use of proceeds generated from our initial public offering of common stock and concurrent offering of mandatory convertible subordinated bonds. The charges related to the associated redemption premiums and recognition of previously deferred financing costs. These charges were partially offset by $10 million of other gains primarily related to an acquisition of the remaining interest of a previously nonconsolidated subsidiary and $12 million of other gains, primarily relating to the settlement of certain patent infringement matters. 

Income from Continuing Operations Before Income Taxes and Equity in Net Income of Affiliates 

Income was $359 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $64 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 due primarily to the consolidated results mentioned above. 

Income Taxes 

The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were 34% and 9%, respectively. 

The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2012 was higher than the statutory expense rate due to the impact of distributions from foreign subsidiaries, tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns, US state and local and other withholding taxes, offset by the favorable impact of certain financing activities, the net release of valuation allowances and changes in deferred tax rates. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the favorable effect of financing activities, release of valuation allowances and the impact of the tax rate differences in the other jurisdictions where we file tax returns. 

At December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had gross uncertain tax positions of $409 million and $370 million, respectively. We also have accrued interest and penalties associated with these uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 of $45 million and $33 million, respectively. 

Estimated interest and penalties related to the underpayment of income taxes is classified as a component of our provision or benefit for income taxes. It is reasonably possible that a reduction in a range of $6 million to $14 million of uncertain tax positions may occur within the next twelve months as a result of projected resolutions of worldwide tax disputes. 

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are lower and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where statutory rates are higher, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. 

Adjusted EBITDA 

Adjusted EBITDA increased 3.7% to $1,504 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $1,450 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, or 6.0% on a constant currency basis. Our Adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 27.82% for the year ended December 31, 2012 from 27.21% for the year ended December 31, 2011. See “Results of Operations – (Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011)” for the reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA. 

38 

Business Segment Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2013 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012 

Revenues 

The table below sets forth our segment revenue performance data for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)

The Watch segment includes the Arbitron (Nielsen Audio) results for the fourth quarter of 2013. Excluding the impact from the Arbitron acquisition, total Nielsen revenue was $5,569 million, an increase of 3.0% (3.9% on a constant currency basis) and the Watch segment revenue was $2,163 million, an increase of 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis). 

(b)

During the fourth quarter of 2013, to conform to a change in management reporting, we reclassified two products from the Buy segment to the Watch segment. The business segment results have been reclassified for comparison purposes for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements. 

Buy Segment Revenues 

Revenues increased 1.9% to $3,406 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $3,341 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 3.1% on a constant currency basis. Revenues from Developing markets increased 3.5% (7.2% on a constant currency basis) and revenues from Developed markets increased 1.2% for the period (1.0% on a constant currency basis). 

Revenues from Information services increased 2.0% to $2,648 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $2,595 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 3.0% on a constant currency basis. Revenues from Developing markets increased 2.7% (6.6% on a constant currency basis) due to continued expansion of our retail measurement and services to both new and existing customers. Revenues from Developed markets increased 1.7% (1.4% on a constant currency basis). Growth was impacted by no longer benefiting from the additional retail measurement coverage in the U.S. driven by Wal-Mart and softness in Western Europe.

Revenues from Insights services increased 1.6% to $758 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $746 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, (3.1% on a constant currency basis) driven by increased demand for our analytical services in the developing countries around the world.

Watch Segment Revenues 

Revenues increased 11.2% to $2,297 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $2,066 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, or 11.7% on a constant currency basis. Excluding the impact from the Arbitron acquisition, revenues increased 4.7% (5.2% on a constant currency basis). Audience measurement revenue, excluding Arbitron (Nielsen Audio), grew 5.2% (5.7% on a constant currency basis) driven by increases in spending from existing customers, international expansion of our services to both new and existing customers, accelerated growth of our new digital products and increased growth in Ad Solutions. 

Business Segment Profitability 

We do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-GAAP business segment profitability. Non-GAAP business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. When this non-GAAP financial information is viewed with our GAAP financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. It is important to note that the non-GAAP business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of 

39 

management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. These non-GAAP measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)

For the year ended December 31, 2013, other items consist primarily of one-time items associated with the acquisition of Arbitron, including non-cash purchase accounting adjustments and transaction-related costs. For the year ended December 31, 2012, other items consist primarily of transaction-related costs. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Buy Segment Profitability 

Operating income was $399 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $403 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as the increase in revenue mentioned above was more than offset by investments in Developing markets expansion and increases in retail measurement costs. Non-GAAP business segment income decreased 0.5% on a constant currency basis. 

Watch Segment Profitability 

Operating income was $570 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $553 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase was driven by the revenue performance discussed above, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense and restructuring charges resulting from the Arbitron acquisition. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 16.2% on a constant currency basis. 

Corporate Expenses and Eliminations 

Operating expenses were $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to $76 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 due to increases in restructuring charges, transaction-related costs and stock-based compensation expense. 

40 

Business Segment Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2012 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2011 

Revenues 

The table below sets forth our segment revenue growth data for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to the year ended December 31, 2011, both on an as-reported and constant currency basis. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Buy Segment Revenues 

Revenues increased 0.1% to $3,341 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $3,339 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, or 3.6% on a constant currency basis. Revenues from Developing markets increased 0.5% (6.3% on a constant currency basis) and revenues from Developed markets decreased 0.2% for the period (an increase of 2.3% on a constant currency basis). 

Revenues from Information services increased 2.4% to $2,595 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $2,534 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, or 6.3% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 3.9% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenues from Developing markets increased 3.0% during the period (an increase of 9.1% on a constant currency basis) as growth driven by the continued expansion of both our retail measurement and consumer panel services to both new and existing clients and new markets was substantially offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Revenues from Developed markets increased 2.1% (4.9% on a constant currency basis) as growth in retail measurement services in North America was partially offset by a soft Western Europe market as well as the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. 

Revenues from Insights services decreased 7.3% to $746 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $805 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, or a decrease of 4.6% on a constant currency basis, excluding a 2.7% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Growth in North America of 2% was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and decreases in discretionary client spending in Western Europe. 

Watch Segment Revenues 

Revenues increased 3.9% to $2,066 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from $1,989 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, or 4.8% on a constant currency basis. Audience measurement grew 5.1% (6.0% on a constant currency basis) driven by increases in spending from both new and existing clients. 

41 

Business Segment Profitability 

We do not allocate items below operating income/(loss) to our business segments and therefore the tables below set forth a reconciliation of operating income/(loss) at the business segment level for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, adjusting for certain items affecting operating income/(loss), such as restructuring charges, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense and certain other items described below resulting in a presentation of our non-GAAP business segment profitability. Non-GAAP business segment profitability provides useful supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends related to our results of operations. When this non-GAAP financial information is viewed with our GAAP financial information, investors are provided with a meaningful understanding of our ongoing operating performance. It is important to note that the non-GAAP business segment profitability corresponds in total to our consolidated Adjusted EBITDA described within our consolidated results of operations above, which our chief operating decision making group and other members of management use to measure our performance from period to period both at the consolidated level as well as within our operating segments, to evaluate and fund incentive compensation programs and to compare our results to those of our competitors. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, cash flows from operating activities or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP as measures of operating performance or cash flows as measures of liquidity. These non-GAAP measures have important limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)

For the year ended December 31, 2012, other items consist primarily of transaction-related costs. Other items primarily consist of Sponsor Advisory Fees (including termination payments of $102 million), costs related to our initial public offering and other transaction-related costs for the year ended December 31, 2011. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Buy Segment Profitability. 

Operating income was $403 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to $424 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 as the increase in revenues mentioned above was more than offset by the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, investments in Developing markets expansion, increases in retail measurement costs, and higher depreciation and amortization expense. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 2.9% on a constant currency basis. 

42 

Watch Segment Profitability 

Operating income was $553 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to $472 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase was primarily driven by the revenue performance discussed above and decreased depreciation and amortization expense. This performance was offset in part by increased investment in audience measurement initiatives, the unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and higher restructuring charges. Non-GAAP business segment income increased 8.5% on a constant currency basis. 

Corporate Expenses and Eliminations 

Operating expenses were $76 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to $170 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 due primarily to the $102 million charge for the termination and settlement of the Sponsor Advisory Agreements in 2011, partially offset by additional transaction-related costs in 2012. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

We have consistently generated strong cash flows from operations, providing a source of funds ranging between $641 million and $901 million per year over the past three years. We provide for additional liquidity through several sources including, maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources and a committed revolving credit facility. The following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Of the $564 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $459 million was held in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and as a result there may be tax consequences if such amounts were moved out of these jurisdictions or repatriated to the U.S. We regularly review the amount of cash and cash equivalents held outside of the U.S. to determine the amounts necessary to fund the current operations of our foreign operations and their growth initiatives and amounts needed to service our U.S. indebtedness and related obligations. 

During 2013, we continued to focus on de-levering our balance sheet, extending debt maturities and reducing cash interest expense through the re-pricing of $3 billion of our term loan facility, the issuance of $625 million of 5.50% Senior Notes and the redemption of our remaining high-yield debt. The below table illustrates the results of these efforts through the decrease in our weighted average interest rate and cash paid for interest over the last three years.

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As a result of the strong cash flow performance and the aforementioned initiatives, in 2013 our board of directors adopted a cash dividend policy with the present intent to pay quarterly cash dividends on our outstanding common stock and approved a share repurchase program for up to $500 million of our outstanding common stock. During 2013, we paid $265 million in cash dividends and repurchased 289,839 shares of our common stock for $11 million. The dividend policy and the payment of future cash dividends are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors.

Our contractual obligations, commitments and debt service requirements over the next several years are significant. We believe we will have available resources to meet both our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, including our senior secured debt service. We expect the cash flow from our operations, combined with existing cash and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, restructuring obligations, dividend payments and capital spending over the next year. In addition we may, from time to time, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities (including any publicly issued debt securities) in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise.

43 

Long-term borrowings 

The following table provides a summary of our outstanding long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2013:

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Term Loan Facilities 

In August 2006, certain of our subsidiaries entered into the Senior Secured Credit Agreement that was amended and restated in June 2009, February 2012 and February 2013. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement provides for term loan facilities as shown in the table above. 

In February 2012, the Senior Secured Credit Agreement was amended and restated to provide for a new five-year amortizing term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,222 million. Borrowings under this new term loan facility bear interest at a rate as determined by the type of borrowing, equal to either the “base rate” or LIBOR rate, plus, in each case, an applicable margin. The applicable margin on base rate loans under this new term loan facility ranges from 0.75% to 1.50% based on a total leverage ratio. The applicable margin on LIBOR loans under this new term loan facility ranges from 1.75% to 2.50% based on the total leverage ratio. Loans under this new term loan facility mature in full in February 2017, but the maturity date shall be January 2016 if at such time there is more than $750 million in the aggregate of existing other term loans under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement with a maturity of May 2016. The loans under this new term loan facility are required to be repaid in an amount equal to 5% of the original principal amount in the first year after the closing date, 5% in the second year, 10% in the third year, 10% in the fourth year and 70% in the fifth year (with payments in each year being made in equal quarterly installments other than the fifth year, in which payments shall be equal to 3.33% of the original principal amount of loans in each of the first three quarters and the remaining principal balance due in February 2017 (unless repayment is required in January 2016 as indicated above)). Loans under this new term loan facility are secured on a pari passu basis with the Company’s existing obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Senior Secured Loan Agreement.

In February 2013, the Second Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement was amended and restated to provide for a new class of term loans (the “Class E Term Loans”) in an aggregate principal amount of $2,532 million and €289 million, the proceeds of which were used to repay or replace in full a like amount of our existing Class A Term Loans maturing August 9, 2013, Class B Term Loans maturing May 1, 2016 and Class C Term Loans maturing May 1, 2016. As a result of this transaction, the Company recorded a charge of $12 million primarily related to the write-off of previously capitalized deferred financing fees associated with the Class A, B and C term loans to other expense, net in the consolidated statement of operations. 

The Class E Term Loans will mature in full on May 1, 2016 and are required to be repaid in equal quarterly installments in aggregate annual amounts equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount of Class E Term Loans, with the balance payable on May 1, 2016. Class E Term Loans denominated in dollars bear interest equal to, at our election, a base rate or eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin, which is equal to 1.75% (in the case of base rate loans) or 2.75% (in the case of eurocurrency rate loans). 

44 

Class E Term Loan denominated in Euros bear interest equal to the eurocurrency rate plus an applicable margin of 3.00%. The newly Amended and Restated Senior Secured Credit Agreement contains substantially the same affirmative and negative covenants as those of the Existing Credit Agreement, as amended, other than certain amendments to the limitation on the ability of Nielsen and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates to incur indebtedness and make investments.

The Senior Secured Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. and its restricted subsidiaries (which together constitute most of our subsidiaries) to incur additional indebtedness or guarantees, incur liens and engage in sale and leaseback transactions, make certain loans and investments, declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase capital stock, engage in certain mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations, prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness, amend or otherwise alter terms of certain indebtedness, sell certain assets, transact with affiliates, enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions and alter the business they conduct. These entities are restricted, subject to certain exceptions, in their ability to transfer their net assets to us. Such restricted net assets amounted to approximately $5.7 billion at December 31, 2013. In addition, these entities are required to maintain a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. Neither we nor TNC B.V. is currently bound by any financial or negative covenants contained in the credit agreement. The Senior Secured Credit Agreement also contains certain customary affirmative covenants and events of default. Certain significant financial covenants are described further below. 

Obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) are guaranteed by TNC B.V., substantially all of the wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V. and certain of the non-U.S. wholly-owned subsidiaries of TNC B.V., and are secured by substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V. and by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock of the guarantors, the capital stock of substantially all of the U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V., and up to 65% of the capital stock of certain of the non-U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V. Under a separate security agreement, substantially all of the assets of TNC B.V. are pledged as collateral for amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities. 

Covenants Attributable to TNC B.V. 

Financial covenants contained in our Credit Agreement consist of a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio as related to our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. and its restricted subsidiaries. The leverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of total net debt (as defined in the facility) at the end of any calendar quarter to Covenant EBITDA (as defined in the facility) for the four quarters then ended to exceed a specified threshold. The maximum permitted ratio is 6.25 to 1.0. 

The interest coverage ratio requires that we not permit the ratio of Covenant EBITDA at the end of any calendar quarter to Consolidated Interest Expense (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for the four quarters then ended to be less than a specified threshold. The minimum permitted ratio is 1.50 to 1.0. 

Failure to comply with either of these covenants would result in an event of default under our Credit Agreement unless waived by our senior credit lenders. An event of default under our Credit Agreement can result in the acceleration of our indebtedness under the facility, which in turn would result in an event of default and possible acceleration of indebtedness under the agreements governing our debt securities as well. As our failure to comply with the covenants described above can cause us to go into default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, management believes that our Credit Agreement and these covenants are material to us. As of December 31, 2013, we were in full compliance with the covenants described above. 

Pursuant to our Credit Agreement, we are subject to making mandatory prepayments on the term loans within our Credit Agreement to the extent in any full calendar year we generate Excess Cash Flow (“ECF”), as defined in the Credit Agreement. The percentage of ECF that must be applied as a repayment is a function of several factors, including our ratio of total net debt to Covenant EBITDA, as well other adjustments, including any voluntary term loan repayments made in the course of the calendar year. To the extent any mandatory repayment is required pursuant to this ECF clause, such payment must generally occur on or around the time of the delivery of the annual consolidated financial statements to the lenders. At December 31, 2013, our ratio of total net debt to Covenant EBITDA was less than 5.00 to 1.00 and therefore no mandatory repayment was required. Our next ECF measurement date will occur upon completion of the 2014 results, and although we do not expect to be required to issue any mandatory repayments in 2014 or beyond, it is uncertain at this time if any such payments will be required in future periods. 

Revolving Credit Facility 

The Senior Secured Credit Agreement, as amended, also contains a senior secured revolving credit facility under which Nielsen Finance LLC, TNC (US) Holdings, Inc., and Nielsen Holding and Finance B.V. can borrow revolving loans. The revolving credit facility can also be used for letters of credit, guarantees and swingline loans. The revolving credit commitments totals $635 million with a final maturity date of April 2016. 

45 

The senior secured revolving credit facility is provided under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and so contains covenants and restrictions as noted above with respect to the Senior Secured Credit Agreement under the “Term loan facilities” section above. Obligations under the revolving credit facility are guaranteed by the same entities that guarantee obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Agreement and Senior Secured Loan Agreement. 

As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had no borrowings outstanding, but had outstanding letters of credit of $12 million and $13 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had $623 million available for borrowing under the revolving credit facility. 

Debenture Loans 

The indentures governing certain of our debenture loans limit the majority of our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock, make certain investments, enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates, use assets as security in other transactions and sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies subject to certain exceptions. Upon a change in control, we are required to make an offer to redeem all of the Senior Notes at a redemption price equal to the 101% of the aggregate accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Senior Notes are jointly and severally guaranteed by TNC B.V., substantially all of the wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries of TNC B.V., and certain of the non-U.S. wholly-owned subsidiaries of TNC B.V. 

Dividends and Share Repurchase Program

We remain committed to driving shareholder value as evidenced in 2013 with the adoption of a quarterly cash dividend policy by our board of directors, under which we have paid $265 million in cash dividends during 2013. Any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will be subject to the board’s continuing determination that the dividend policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of our shareholders, and are in compliance with all laws and agreements to which we are subject. The below table summarizes the dividends declared on our common stock during 2013.

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

No dividends were declared or paid on our common stock during 2012 or 2011.

On July 25, 2013, our Board approved a share repurchase program for up to $500 million of our outstanding common stock. The primary purpose of the program is to mitigate dilution associated with our equity compensation plans. Repurchases will be made in accordance with applicable securities laws from time to time in the open market depending on our management’s evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The program will be executed within the limitations of the existing authority granted at our 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. As of December 31, 2013, we have purchased 289,839 shares of our common stock at an average price of $39.49 per share (total consideration of $11 million) under this program.

Secondary Offerings 

In 2013, three secondary public offerings totaling 111,064,884 shares of our common stock were completed on behalf of certain selling stockholders, primarily comprised of the Sponsor group, at a weighted average price of $35.27 per share. All proceeds were received by the selling stockholders and the offerings did not have a significant impact on our operating results or financial position. 

Cash Flows 2013 versus 2012 

Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $901 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $784 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. This increase was driven by the Adjusted EBITDA performance described above and by the timing of vendor and employee payroll payments. Our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (DBO), decreased by 1 day for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to a 1 day increase for the year ended December 31, 2012. 

46 

Investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $687 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $522 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The primary driver for the increased usage of cash from investing activities was the increase in acquisition payments in connection with the Arbitron acquisition partially offset by proceeds received from the sale of our Expositions business. 

Financing activities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $83 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to a use of $298 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase in cash provided by financing activities was driven by proceeds from the issuances of debt, partially offset by dividends paid on our common stock and debt repayments. 

Cash Flows 2012 versus 2011 

Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $784 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to $641 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 included the $102 million payment for the termination and settlement of the Sponsor Advisory Agreements. Excluding this payment, cash flows provided by operating activities increased $41 million as compared to the prior period. This increase was driven by the Adjusted EBITDA performance described above and lower interest payments, substantially offset by the timing of vendor and employee payroll payments and timing of accounts receivable collections. Our key collections performance measure, days billing outstanding (DBO), increased by 1 day for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to a 1 day decrease for the year ended December 31, 2011. 

Investing activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $522 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to $486 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The primary driver for the increased usage of cash from investing activities was the increase in acquisition payments. 

Financing activities . Net cash used in financing activities was $298 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to $250 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The increase in the cash used by financing activities was driven by the repayment of outstanding debt, partially offset by the proceeds received from the issuances of debt. 

Capital Expenditures 

Investments in property, plant, equipment, software and other assets totaled $374 million, $358 million and $367 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 

Commitments and Contingencies 

Outsourced Services Agreements 

In February 2013, we amended our Amended and Restated Master Services Agreement (the “MSA”), dated as of October 1, 2007 with Tata America International Corporation and Tata Consultancy Services Limited (jointly, “TCS”). The term of the MSA has been extended for an additional three years, so as to expire on December 31, 2020, with a one-year renewal option granted to Nielsen. In addition, we have increased our commitment to purchase services from TCS (the “Minimum Commitment”) from $1.0 billion to $2.5 billion over the life of the contract (from October 1, 2007), including a commitment to purchase at least $100 million in services per year (the “Annual Commitment”) until the Minimum Commitment is met. TCS’ charges under the separate Global Infrastructure Services Agreement between the parties will be credited against the Minimum Commitment and the Annual Commitment. TCS will globally provide us with professional services relating to information technology (including application development and maintenance), business process outsourcing, client service knowledge process outsourcing, management sciences, analytics, and financial planning and analytics. As we order specific services under the Agreement, the parties will execute Statements Of Work (“SOWs”) describing the specific scope of the services to be performed by TCS. The amount of the Minimum Commitment and the Annual Commitment may be reduced on the occurrence of certain events, some of which also provide us with the right to terminate the Agreement or SOWs, as applicable. 

47 

Cyprus Agreement 

On March 25, 2013, Cyprus and certain members of the European Union reached an agreement on measures intended to restore the viability of the financial sector of Cyprus. As part of these measures Cyprus has agreed to downsize its local financial sector including: 

(1)

The immediate dissolution of Cyprus Popular Bank under which equity shareholders, bondholders and uninsured depositors (defined as those with deposits in excess of €100 thousand) will contribute to make up the losses of the bank; and 

(2)

The recapitalization of the Bank of Cyprus (“BoC”) through a deposit/equity conversion of uninsured deposits, with full contribution of equity shareholders and bondholders. Currently 37.5% of uninsured deposits of BoC have been converted into Class A shares with voting and dividend rights. An additional 22.5% have been “frozen” and may also be partially or fully used to issue new Class A shares, as necessary. 

As a result of this agreement, during the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded a charge of $4 million in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations representing the uninsured deposits either contributed to make up losses of Cyprus Popular Bank or converted into Class A shares of BoC, as described above. We do not expect this agreement to significantly impact future operating results. 

Other Contractual Obligations 

Our other contractual obligations include capital lease obligations (including interest portion), facility leases, leases of certain computer and other equipment, agreements to purchase data and telecommunication services, the payment of principal and interest on debt and pension fund obligations. 

At December 31, 2013, the minimum annual payments under these agreements and other contracts that had initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as listed in the following table. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2013, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of any potential cash settlements with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $527 million of unrecognized tax benefits (which includes interest and penalties of $52 million) have been excluded from the contractual obligations table below. See Note 14 – “Income Taxes” – to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)

Our short-term and long-term debt obligations, including capital lease and other financing obligations, are described in Note 11 – “Long-Term Debt and Other Financing Arrangements” – to our consolidated financial statements. 

(b)

Our operating lease obligations are described in Note 16 – “Commitments and Contingencies” – to our consolidated financial statements. 

(c)

Other contractual obligations represent obligations under agreement, which are not unilaterally cancelable by us, are legally enforceable and specify fixed or minimum amounts or quantities of goods or services at fixed or minimum prices. We generally require purchase orders for vendor and third party spending. The amounts presented above represent the minimum future annual services covered by purchase obligations including data processing, building maintenance, equipment purchasing, photocopiers, land and mobile telephone service, computer software and hardware maintenance, and outsourcing. Our remaining commitments as of December 31, 2013 under the outsourced services agreements with TCS have been included above on an estimated basis over the years within the contractual period in which we expect to satisfy our obligations. As of December 31, 2013, the remaining TCS commitment was approximately $1,000 million.

(d)

Interest payments consist of interest on both fixed-rate and variable-rate debt based on LIBOR as of December 31, 2013. 

(e)

Our contributions to pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans were $51 million, $64 million and $54 million during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Future minimum pension and other post-retirement benefits contributions are not determinable for time periods after 2014. See Note 10 – “Pensions and Other Post-Retirement Benefits” – to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion on plan obligations. 

48 

Guarantees and Other Contingent Commitments 

At December 31, 2013, we were committed under the following significant guarantee arrangements: 

 Sub-lease guarantees. We provide sub-lease guarantees in accordance with certain agreements pursuant to which we guarantee all rental payments upon default of rental payment by the sub-lessee. To date, we have not been required to perform under such arrangements, and do not anticipate making any significant payments related to such guarantees and, accordingly, no amounts have been recorded. 

Letters of credit. Letters of credit issued and outstanding amount to $12 million at December 31, 2013. 

Legal Proceedings and Contingencies 

We are subject to litigation and other claims in the ordinary course of business, some of which include claims for substantial sums. Accruals have been recorded when the outcome is probable and can be reasonably estimated. While the ultimate results of claims and litigation cannot be determined, we expect that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. However, depending on the amount and the timing, an unfavorable resolution of some or all of these matters could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Except as disclosed above, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditure or capital resources. 

Summary of Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

Reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income 

In February 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update “Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income”, to improve the transparency of reporting reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income. We have presented the significant amounts reclassified from each component of accumulated other comprehensive income and the income statement line items affected by the reclassification in Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. This amended guidance does not have any other impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

Foreign Currency Matters 

In March 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update, “Parent’s Accounting for the Cumulative Translation Adjustment upon Derecognition of Certain Subsidiaries or Groups of Assets within a Foreign Entity or of an Investment in a Foreign Entity”, to resolve the diversity in practice regarding the release into net income of the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of a subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity. The amendment requires an entity that ceases to have a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity to release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income. Accordingly, the cumulative translation adjustment should be released into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. This guidance is effective for our interim and annual reporting periods in 2014. The adoption of this update is not expected to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

Income Taxes 

In July 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update, “Income Taxes: Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists”. The update provides guidance on the financial statement presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit, as either a reduction of a deferred tax asset or as a liability, when a net operating loss carryforward, similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. The update will be effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2013 and may be applied on a retrospective basis. Early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this update did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

49 

Item 7A.