Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and market prices such as interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market value of equity instruments. We are exposed to market risk, primarily related to foreign exchange and interest rates. We actively monitor these exposures. Historically, in order to manage the volatility relating to these exposures, we entered into a variety of derivative financial instruments, mainly interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward rate agreements. Currently we only employ basic contracts, that is, without options, embedded or otherwise. Our objective is to reduce, where it is deemed appropriate to do so, fluctuations in earnings, cash flows and the value of our net investments in subsidiaries resulting from changes in interest rates and foreign currency rates. It is our policy not to trade in financial instruments. 

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk 

We operate globally and we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in local currencies. Because of fluctuations (including possible devaluations) in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into our reporting currency, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to transaction exposure. 

Foreign currency translation risk is the risk that exchange rate gains or losses arise from translating foreign entities’ statements of earnings and balance sheets from functional currency to our reporting currency (the U.S. Dollar) for consolidation purposes. Translation risk exposure is managed by creating “natural hedges” in our financing or by using derivative financial instruments aimed at offsetting certain exposures in the statement of earnings or the balance sheet. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 

The table below details the percentage of revenues and expenses by currency for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Based on the year ended December 31, 2013, a one cent change in the U.S. dollar/Euro exchange rate would have impacted revenues by approximately $7 million annually, with an immaterial impact on operating income. 

We have operations in both our Buy and Watch segments in Venezuela and the functional currency for these operations was the Venezuelan Bolivares Fuertes. Venezuela’s currency was considered hyperinflationary as of January 1, 2010 and further, in January 2010, Venezuela’s currency was devalued and a new currency exchange rate system was announced. In 2010, we evaluated the new exchange rate system and concluded that the local currency transactions will be denominated in U.S. dollars effective as of January 1, 2010 and until Venezuela’s currency is deemed to be non-hyperinflationary

In February 2013, the Venezuelan government devalued its currency by 32%. The official exchange rate moved from 4.30 to 6.30 and the regulated System of Transactions with Securities in Foreign Currency market was suspended. As a result of this change, we recorded a charge of $12 million in 2013 in foreign currency exchange transaction losses, net in the consolidated statement of operations primarily reflecting the write-down of monetary assets and liabilities.

In January 2014, Venezuela announced the establishment of a dual exchange rate system. A rate of 6.3 Venezuelan Bolivares Fuertes to the US dollar will be applied to priority sectors, such as food and medicine, while other sectors of the economy will apply an exchange rate determined based on the results of the Venezuelan central bank’s system of weekly currency auctions. We are in the process of analyzing the impact, if any, of this change on our 2014 consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2013, net monetary assets subject to revaluation in Venezuela were $38 million.

Interest Rate Risk 

We continually review our fixed and variable rate debt along with related hedging opportunities in order to ensure our portfolio is appropriately balanced as part of our overall interest rate risk management strategy and through this process we consider both short-term and long-term considerations in the U.S. and global financial markets in making adjustments to our tolerable exposures to interest rate risk. At December 31, 2013, we had $4,016 million of floating-rate debt under our senior secured credit facilities, of which $2,872 million was subject to effective floating-fixed interest rate swaps. A one percent increase in interest rates applied to our floating rate indebtedness would therefore increase annual interest expense by approximately $11 million ($40 million without giving effect to any of our interest rate swaps). 

50 

In October and November 2013, we entered into $1,000 million in aggregate notional amount of three-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in November 2013. These agreements fix the LIBOR related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.46%. The commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $1,000 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in November 2013. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. 

In July 2013, we entered into $575 million in aggregate notional amount of three-year interest swap agreements with starting dates in July 2013. These agreements fix the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.67%. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges.

In November 2012, we entered into $500 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in November 2012. These agreements fix the LIBOR related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a weighted average rate of 0.57%. The commencement date of these interest rate swaps coincided with the $500 million aggregate notional amount of interest rate swaps that matured in November 2012. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. 

In November 2011, we entered into a $125 million notional amount and a €125 million notional amount of four-year interest rate swap agreements with starting dates in November 2011. These agreements fix the LIBOR and Euro LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at a rate of 0.84% and 1.30%, respectively. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. 

In August 2011, we entered into $250 million in aggregate notional amount of four-year forward interest swap agreements with starting dates in September 2011. These agreements fix the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of our variable-rate debt at an average rate of 0.84%. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges. 

In November 2010 the Company entered into a $250 million notional amount three-year forward interest rate swap agreement with a starting date in November 2011, which fixes the LIBOR-related portion of interest rates of a corresponding amount of the Company’s variable-rate debt at a rate of 1.26%. These derivative instruments have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges.

Derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of non-performance, or credit risk. We do not believe that we currently face a significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, as these transactions were executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions with a minimum investment-grade or better credit rating. Our credit risk exposure is managed through the continuous monitoring of our exposures to such counterparties. 

51 

Item 8.