Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Cash, Cash Equivalents, Marketable Securities and Interest Income Risk  

Our bank deposits and money market investments are generally held with large, diverse financial institutions worldwide, which we believe mitigates certain risks. In addition, we purchase high quality debt security investments, approximately 91% of which have maturity dates within one year of May 31, 2013 (see a description of our debt securities held in Notes 3 and 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” above). Therefore, interest rate movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of our debt security investments. Substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. We generally do not use our investments for trading purposes.  

Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. For fiscal 2013, total interest income was $237 million with our investments yielding an average 0.71% on a worldwide basis. The table below presents the approximate fair values of our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at May 31, 2013 and 2012.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest Expense Risk  

Our total borrowings were $18.5 billion as of May 31, 2013, all of which were fixed rate borrowings. Future changes in interest rates and resulting changes in estimated fair values of our borrowings other than our senior notes due July 2014 (2014 Notes) would not impact the interest expense we recognize in our consolidated statements of operations. We have entered into certain fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate and related fair value of our 2014 Notes so that the interest payable on the 2014 Notes effectively became variable based on LIBOR. We do not use these interest rate swap arrangements or our fixed rate borrowings for trading purposes. We have designated these swap agreements as qualifying hedging instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging. These transactions are characterized as fair value hedges for financial accounting purposes because they protect us against changes in the fair value of our 2014 Notes due to benchmark interest rate movements. The changes in fair values of these interest rate swap agreements are recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amounts included in other assets or other non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. The amount of net gain (loss) attributable to the risk being hedged is recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amount included in notes payable and other non-current borrowings. The periodic interest settlements for the swap agreements, which occur at the same interval as those per the 2014 Notes, are recorded as interest expense.  

By entering into these interest rate swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon LIBOR. Our 2014 Notes had an effective interest rate of 1.34% as of May 31, 2013, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements. Changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our statements of operations. An interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. As of May 31, 2013, if LIBOR-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the change would increase our interest expense annually by approximately $15 million as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements.  

Foreign Currency Risk  

Foreign Currency Transaction Risk  

We transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. Under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency  

68  

Table of Contents 

 transactions. We may suspend this program from time to time. Our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions that are expected to be cash settled in the near term. Our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration.  

We neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to ASC 815. Accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. The balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for a net unrealized gain position and other current liabilities for a net unrealized loss position. The statement of operations classification for changes in fair values of these forward contracts is non-operating income, net for both realized and unrealized gains and losses.  

We expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. Our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. As of both May 31, 2013 and 2012, the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.0 billion. As of May 31, 2013 and 2012, the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell U.S. Dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $1.1 billion and $873 million, respectively. The fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at May 31, 2013 and 2012. Net foreign exchange transaction (losses) gains included in non-operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $(162) million, $(105) million and $11 million in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Included in the net foreign exchange transaction losses for fiscal 2013 were foreign currency losses relating to our Venezuelan subsidiary’s operations, which are more thoroughly described under “Non-Operating Income, net” in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above. As a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are uncertain.  

Foreign Currency Translation Risk  

Fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into U.S. Dollars. In particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in U.S. Dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income on our consolidated balance sheet and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this Annual Report). Periodically, we may hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure.  

As the U.S. Dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2013, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in U.S. Dollars for foreign subsidiaries that hold international currencies as of May 31, 2013 decreased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of May 31, 2012. As reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effect of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in U.S. Dollars for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 was a (decrease) increase of $(110) million, $(471) million and $600 million, respectively. The following table includes estimates of the U.S. Dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in certain major foreign currencies as of May 31, 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

69  

Table of Contents 

If overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the U.S. Dollar uniformly weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in U.S. Dollars would decrease by approximately $716 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances.  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data