Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

This annual report on Form 10-K, including the following management’s discussion and analysis, contains forward-looking information that you should read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements that we have included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. For this purpose, any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “will” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the plans, intentions or expectations we disclose in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included important factors above under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A above that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We are not obligated to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Accounting Period  

Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest December 31. We report fiscal years under a 52/53 week format. Under this method, certain years will contain 53 weeks. The fiscal year ended January 3, 2010, included 53 weeks. This additional week was reflected in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. The fiscal years ended December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007 each included 52 weeks. The fiscal year ended January 2, 2011 will include 52 weeks.  

Overview of Fiscal Year 2009  

The global economic contraction negatively affected certain of our end markets during fiscal year 2009; however, several of our other end markets performed better than we anticipated. Our overall sales in fiscal year 2009 declined $147.8 million, or 8%, as compared to fiscal year 2008, reflecting a decline of $38.1 million, or 5%, in our Human Health segment sales and a decline of $109.7 million, or 9%, in our Environmental Health segment sales. This decline in our Human Health segment sales during fiscal year 2009 was due primarily to decreased demand for our medical imaging products in the diagnostics market, as well as order deferrals related to fiscal year 2009 delays in government stimulus monies in the research market. The decreased demand for our medical imaging products resulted from continued constraints on medical providers’ capital budgets, and a lack of financing availability for our customers. The government stimulus related order delays in the research market resulted from many of our customers continuing to defer instrument purchases in hopes of obtaining grants for larger instrument purchases. The decline in our Environmental Health segment sales during fiscal year 2009 was due primarily to the decline in spending by private and public testing labs, and continued weak demand in detection and intrusion sensors in the environmental and safety and security markets, as well as traditional chemical and semiconductor markets reducing capital purchases in response to continued tight capital budgets and difficulty accessing credit markets.  

These declines have been offset in part by certain of our businesses operating in markets which are more isolated from current economic trends, or where our businesses have benefited from a push for more efficient spending. In our Human Health segment, we experienced strong growth in sales in the diagnostics market related to our genetic screening business during fiscal year 2009 as compared to that market in fiscal year 2008. The genetic screening business was driven by continued expansion of neonatal and prenatal screening platforms, with broad-based growth experienced across all major geographies. We expanded newborn screening in China through our recent Sym-Bio acquisition and also advanced adoption and capacity of first trimester prenatal screening, setting up national labs in New Zealand, the Philippines, Vietnam and Malaysia. Our cord blood business also contributed to the growth of our genetic screening business during fiscal year 2009. In the research market, demand for our reagents and low-end instrumentation was encouraging as customers continued to spend on basic research. As the rising cost of healthcare continues to be one of the critical issues facing our customers, we anticipate that while there is continued pressure on lab budgets and credit availability, the benefits of providing earlier detection of disease, which can result in savings of long-term health care cost as well as creating better outcomes for patients, are increasingly valued and we will continue to see growth in these markets.  

In our Environmental Health segment, our laboratory services business enables our customers to drive efficiencies, increase production time and reduce maintenance costs, all of which are increasingly critical in this distressed economic environment. During fiscal year 2009, we continued to grow by adding new customers to our OneSource multivendor service and expanding in markets beyond our traditional customer base and services. We were also encouraged by improving demand trends in our traditional service offerings which we believe are indicative of improving economic confidence. While overall sales in the environmental and safety and security markets were driven down by the decline in spending by private and public testing labs and the decline in spending for detection and intrusion sensors, sales of environmental, food and consumer safety testing products grew in fiscal year 2009 due to increased demand for the production and analysis of renewable energy technologies and new testing requirements for consumer product safety applications as a result of new regulations. We experienced increased demand from government agencies in China for products with food safety  

33  

Table of Contents 

 and consumer safety applications to comply with recently adopted regulatory requirements in the United States. We believe that the need for increased inspection, testing and tracking of contaminants will continue to drive increased demand for our products.  

Our gross margins increased approximately 42 basis points in fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 due to changes in product mix, especially growth in sales of higher gross margin product offerings, and cost containment initiatives, partially offset by lower demand. However, our consolidated operating margin declined approximately 177 basis points in fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008, primarily as a result of lower demand, additional restructuring activities, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased pension expenses and foreign exchange, partially offset by cost containment initiatives.  

We believe we are well positioned to continue to take advantage of our end markets where spending trends have countered the prevailing downturn, and to promote our efficiencies in markets where current conditions may increase demand for certain services. Overall, we believe that our strategic focus on Human Health and Environmental Health coupled with our breadth of end markets, deep portfolio of technologies and applications, leading market positions, global scale and financial strength will provide us with a strong foundation to weather the current economic climate.  

Consolidated Results of Continuing Operations  

Sales  

2009 Compared to 2008. Sales for fiscal year 2009 were $1,812.2 million, as compared to $1,960.0 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $147.8 million, or 8%, which includes an approximate 3% decrease in sales attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by an approximate 1% increase from acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment sales for fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and acquisitions. The total decrease in sales reflects a $38.1 million, or 5%, decrease in our Human Health segment sales, due to a decrease in diagnostics market sales of $23.9 million and a decrease in research market sales of $14.2 million. Our Environmental Health segment sales decreased $109.7 million, or 9%, due to decreases in environmental, safety and security and industrial markets sales of $119.5 million, partially offset by an increase in laboratory services market sales of $9.8 million.  

2008 Compared to 2007. Sales for fiscal year 2008 were $1,960.0 million, as compared to $1,728.9 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $231.1 million, or 13%, which includes an approximate 2% increase in sales attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates and an approximate 4% increase from acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment sales for fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and acquisitions. The total increase in sales reflects a $143.0 million, or 23%, increase in our Human Health segment sales, due to an increase in diagnostics market sales of $110.5 million and an increase in research market sales of $32.5 million. Our Environmental Health segment sales increased $88.1 million, or 8%, due to increases in environmental, safety and security and industrial markets sales of $51.3 million and an increase in laboratory services market sales of $36.8 million.  

Cost of Sales  

2009 Compared to 2008. Cost of sales for fiscal year 2009 was $1,032.4 million, as compared to $1,124.9 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of approximately $92.5 million, or 8%. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales decreased to 57.0% in fiscal year 2009 from 57.4% in fiscal year 2008, resulting in an increase in gross margin of 42 basis points to 43.0% in fiscal year 2009 from 42.6% in fiscal year 2008. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $37.5 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $37.4 million for fiscal year 2008. Stock option expense decreased and was $1.3 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $1.7 million for fiscal year 2008. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions  

34  

Table of Contents 

 completed in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $1.4 million for fiscal year 2009. The increase in gross margin was primarily the result of the combined favorable impact of changes in product mix, especially growth in sales of higher gross margin product offerings, productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives, partially offset by lower demand.  

2008 Compared to 2007. Cost of sales for fiscal year 2008 was $1,124.9 million, as compared to $1,016.4 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of approximately $108.6 million, or 11%. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales decreased to 57.4% in fiscal year 2008 from 58.8% in fiscal year 2007, resulting in an increase in gross margin of 140 basis points to 42.6% in fiscal year 2008 from 41.2% in fiscal year 2007. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $37.4 million for fiscal year 2008, as compared to $34.4 million for fiscal year 2007. Stock option expense increased and was $1.7 million for fiscal year 2008, as compared to $1.2 million for fiscal year 2007. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2007 added an expense of approximately $2.5 million for fiscal year 2007. The increase in gross margin was primarily the result of the combined favorable impact of increased sales volume, productivity improvements, and growth in higher gross margin products such as ViaCord®, partially offset by increased freight costs.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

2009 Compared to 2008. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2009 were $504.7 million, as compared to $524.8 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of approximately $20.1 million, or 4%. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 27.9% in fiscal year 2009, compared to 26.8% in fiscal year 2008. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $18.0 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $16.1 million for fiscal year 2008. Stock option expense decreased and was $6.8 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $8.2 million for fiscal year 2008. Purchase accounting adjustments for contingent consideration and other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $2.0 million for fiscal year 2009. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily the result of cost containment initiatives, partially offset by increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased pension expenses and foreign exchange.  

2008 Compared to 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2008 were $524.8 million, as compared to $441.2 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of approximately $83.6 million, or 19%. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 26.8% in fiscal year 2008, compared to 25.5% in fiscal year 2007. Amortization of intangible assets increased and was $16.1 million for fiscal year 2008, as compared to $7.9 million for fiscal year 2007. Stock option expense increased and was $8.2 million for fiscal year 2008, as compared to $7.3 million for fiscal year 2007. This increase was primarily the result of increased sales and marketing expenses to support recent acquisitions, particularly the acquisition of ViaCell, increased employee-related expenses to support our sales initiatives, and foreign exchange.  

Research and Development Expenses   

2009 Compared to 2008. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2009 were $107.3 million, as compared to $108.9 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $1.7 million, or 2%. As a percentage of sales, research and development expenses increased to 5.9% in fiscal year 2009, as compared to 5.6% in fiscal year 2008. Amortization of intangible assets was $2.1 million for both fiscal years 2009 and 2008. Stock option expense decreased and was $0.5 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $0.6 million for fiscal year 2008. We directed research and development efforts similarly during fiscal years 2009 and 2008, primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental and safety and security markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. 

2008 Compared to 2007. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2008 were $108.9 million, as compared to $104.9 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $4.1 million, or 4%. As a percentage of sales, research and development expenses decreased to 5.6% in fiscal year 2008, as compared to 6.1% in fiscal year  

35  

Table of Contents 

 2007. Amortization of intangible assets was $2.1 million for fiscal year 2008, as compared to $1.7 million for fiscal year 2007. Research and development expenses also included stock option expense of $0.6 million for both fiscal years 2008 and 2007. We directed research and development efforts similarly during fiscal years 2008 and 2007, primarily toward the diagnostics and research markets within our Human Health segment, and the environmental and safety and security markets within our Environmental Health segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives. 

Restructuring and Lease Charges, Net  

We have undertaken a series of restructuring actions related to the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, alignment with our growth strategy and the integration of our business units. Restructuring and lease charges, net, for fiscal year 2009 were a $20.2 million charge, as compared to a $6.9 million charge for fiscal year 2008 and a $14.4 million charge for fiscal year 2007.  

The following table summarizes our restructuring accrual balances and related activity by restructuring plan during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The restructuring plan for the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 was intended principally to reduce resources in anticipation of the economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets and to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets. The restructuring plan for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 was intended principally to reduce resources in anticipation of the economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets. The restructuring plan for the third quarter of fiscal year 2008 was intended principally to shift resources into geographic regions and product lines that are more consistent with our growth strategy. The activities associated with these plans have been reported as restructuring expenses as a component of operating expenses from continuing operations. We expect the impact of immediate cost savings from the restructuring plans on operating results and cash flows to approximately offset the decline in revenue. We expect the impact of future cost savings from these restructuring activities on operating results and cash flows to be negligible, as we will incur offsetting costs.  

Q3 2009 Plan  

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, our management approved a plan to reduce resources in anticipation of the economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets and to shift resources to higher growth geographic regions and end markets (the “Q3 2009 Plan”). As a result of the Q3 2009 Plan, we recognized a $4.9 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of an excess facility. We also recognized a $7.3 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities.  

36  

Table of Contents 

As part of our Q3 2009 Plan, we reduced headcount by 171 employees. All notifications and actions related to the Q3 2009 Plan were completed by October 4, 2009. All employee relationships have been severed and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $5.8 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $0.3 million for the closure of the excess facility will be paid through fiscal year 2011, in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease.  

The following table summarizes the components of the Q3 2009 Plan activity recognized by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Q1 2009 Plan  

During the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, our management approved a plan to reduce resources in anticipation of the economic downturn and its impact on demand in certain end markets (the “Q1 2009 Plan”). As a result of the Q1 2009 Plan, we recognized a $4.8 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of an excess facility. We also recognized a $3.1 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of an excess facility.  

As part of our Q1 2009 Plan, we reduced headcount by 166 employees. All notifications and actions related to the Q1 2009 Plan were completed by April 5, 2009. All employee relationships have been severed and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $2.9 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $0.3 million for the closure of the excess facility will be paid through fiscal year 2012, in accordance with the terms of the applicable lease.  

The following table summarizes the components of the Q1 2009 Plan activity recognized by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Q3 2008 Plan  

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, our management approved a plan to shift resources into product lines that are more consistent with our growth strategy (the “Q3 2008 Plan”). As a result of the Q3 2008 Plan, we recognized a $4.5 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Human Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facilities. We also recognized a $3.4 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Environmental Health segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facilities.  

As part of our Q3 2008 Plan, we reduced headcount by 107 employees. All notifications and actions related to the Q3 2008 Plan were completed by September 28, 2008. All employee relationships have been severed and we anticipate that the remaining severance payments of $1.0 million for workforce reductions will be completed  

37  

Table of Contents 

 by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $0.8 million for the closure of the excess facilities will be paid through fiscal year 2011, in accordance with the terms of the applicable leases.  

The following table summarizes the components of the Q3 2008 Plan activity recognized by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Previous Restructuring and Integration Plans  

The principal actions of the restructuring and integration plans from fiscal years 2001 through 2007 were workforce reductions related to the integration of our businesses in order to reduce costs and achieve operational efficiencies as well as workforce reductions in both our Human Health and Environmental Health segments by shifting resources into geographic regions and product lines that are more consistent with our growth strategy. During fiscal year 2009, we paid $0.8 million related to these plans and recorded a reversal of $0.7 million related to lower than expected severance costs for several of these plans. As of January 3, 2010, we had approximately $4.0 million of remaining liabilities associated with these restructuring and integration plans, primarily for residual lease obligations related to closed facilities in both our Human Health and Environmental Health segments. Payments for these leases, the terms of which vary in length, will be made through fiscal year 2011.  

Lease Charges  

To facilitate the sale of a business in fiscal year 2001, we were required to guarantee the lease obligations that the buyer assumed related to the lease for the building in which the business operated. The lease obligations continue through March 2011. While we assigned our interest in the lease to the buyer at the time of the sale of the business, the buyer subsequently defaulted under the lease, and the lessor sought reimbursement from us. We recorded a charge of $2.7 million in fiscal year 2007 related to payments for this lease obligation. The buyer filed for bankruptcy protection during the third quarter of fiscal year 2008 and was delinquent in making both its lease payments and payments for certain building expenses. The buyer ceased operations in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 and vacated the property. We recorded an additional charge of $0.9 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2009 related to waste removal and restoration costs, and reduced the estimated sublease rental payments reasonably expected to be obtained for the property. We were required to make payments for these obligations of $0.4 million during fiscal year 2008 and $1.1 million during fiscal year 2009.  

Gains on Settlement of Insurance Claim  

2009 Compared to 2008. There were no gains on settlement of insurance claim in fiscal years 2009 and 2008.  

2008 Compared to 2007. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we settled an insurance claim resulting from a fire that occurred at our facility in Boston, Massachusetts in March 2005. As a result of that settlement, we recorded gains of $15.3 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2007. We received the final settlement payment of $21.5 million in June 2007, and had previously received during fiscal years 2005 and 2006 a total of $35.0 million in advance payments towards costs incurred and for building, inventory and equipment damages. Of the $56.5 million in total settlement proceeds received by us, $25.6 million related to reimbursement of costs incurred; $23.7 million related to damages to the building, inventory and equipment; and  

38  

Table of Contents 

 $7.2 million related to business interruption costs which were recorded as reductions to cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses. We accrued $9.7 million representing our management’s estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters, which was damaged in the fire. We paid $2.5 million during fiscal year 2009, $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. We anticipate that the remaining accrual of $1.7 million will be settled by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. We are actively marketing and have a plan to sell the building.  

In-process Research and Development Charge  

2009 Compared to 2008. In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on business combinations. Under this guidance, IPR&D is recorded at fair value as an intangible asset at the acquisition date and amortized once the product is ready for sale. We did not have an IPR&D charge in fiscal years 2009 and 2008.  

2008 Compared to 2007. We did not have an IPR&D charge in fiscal year 2008. The IPR&D charge for fiscal year 2007 was $1.5 million, which related to the acquisitions of Evotec Technologies GmbH and Euroscreen Products S.A. in January 2007. In determining the value of the in-process projects, we considered, among other factors, the in-process projects’ stage of completion, the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date, the costs already incurred, the projected costs to complete, the contribution of core technologies and other acquired assets, the expected introduction date, and the estimated useful life of the technology. We utilized the discounted cash flow method to value the IPR&D, using a discount rate equivalent to the relative risk of the asset, including the uncertainty of technological feasibility and successful launch. This approach determines fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to an in-process project over its useful life, and then discounting these after-tax cash flows back to a present value. We believe that the estimated purchased research and development amounts so determined, represent the fair value of each project at the acquisition date, and the amount represents management’s best estimate of the amount a third party would pay for the projects.  

Interest and Other Expense, Net  

Interest and other expense, net, consisted of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 Compared to 2008. Interest and other expense, net for fiscal year 2009 was $16.9 million, as compared to $45.6 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $28.7 million. The decrease in interest and other expense, net, in fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to the discontinuance and settlement of forward interest rate contracts, with a $17.5 million loss that was recognized into interest expense during fiscal year 2008, as well as lower interest rates on outstanding debt balances, partially offset by the increase in the mix of fixed rate versus variable rate debt. Interest income decreased $3.0 million as a result of lower interest rates on lower cash balances. Other expenses for fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 decreased by $7.3 million, and consisted primarily of expenses related to foreign currency transactions and foreign currency translation. A more complete discussion of our liquidity is set forth below under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”  

39  

Table of Contents 

2008 Compared to 2007. Interest and other expense, net for fiscal year 2008 was $45.6 million, as compared to $16.9 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $28.7 million. The increase in interest and other expense, net, in fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007 was primarily due to the discontinuance and settlement of forward interest rate contracts with a $17.5 million loss that was recognized into interest expense during fiscal year 2008, and higher outstanding debt balances, primarily related to our purchase of ViaCell in fiscal year 2007, which was partially offset by lower interest rates on those outstanding debt balances. Interest income decreased $0.7 million as a result of lower interest rates, which were partially offset by higher cash balances. Other expenses for fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007 increased by $1.2 million, and consisted primarily of expenses related to foreign currency transactions and foreign currency translation.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

2009 Compared to 2008. The fiscal year 2009 provision for income taxes from continuing operations was $37.9 million, as compared to a provision of $21.0 million for fiscal year 2008. The effective tax rate from continuing operations was 29.0% for fiscal year 2009 as compared to 14.1% for fiscal year 2008. The higher effective tax rate in fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to an increase in the expected mix of profits from higher tax rate jurisdictions in 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008 and reflects the favorable settlement of several income tax audits worldwide in fiscal year 2008.  

In October 2008, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2008 (the “2008 Tax Act”) was enacted. The 2008 Tax Act retroactively restored expired research and experimental tax credit provisions and extended the credit through December 31, 2009. As a result of the 2008 Tax Act, we recorded a benefit for the research and experimental tax credit in fiscal years 2009 and 2008 in the amount of $0.8 million for each year.  

2008 Compared to 2007. The fiscal year 2008 provision for income taxes from continuing operations was $21.0 million, as compared to a provision of $16.5 million for fiscal year 2007. The effective tax rate from continuing operations was 14.1% for fiscal year 2008 as compared to 11.1% for fiscal year 2007. The higher effective tax rate in fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to the favorable settlement of an income tax audit in fiscal year 2007.  

Discontinued Operations  

As part of our continuing efforts to focus on higher growth opportunities, we have discontinued certain businesses. We have accounted for these businesses as discontinued operations and, accordingly, have presented the results of operations and related cash flows as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of these businesses have been presented separately, and are reflected within the assets and liabilities from discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008.  

We recorded the following gains and losses, which have been reported as loss on disposition of discontinued operations during the three years ended:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

40  

Table of Contents 

As part of our new strategic business alignment into our Human Health and Environmental Health segments and our continuing efforts to focus on higher growth opportunities, in December 2008, our management approved separate plans to divest our Photonics and Photoflash businesses within our Environmental Health segment. Photonics and Photoflash products and technologies include xenon flashtubes and modules. These products are used in a variety of applications including mobile phones and laser machine tools. The distressed economic conditions during fiscal year 2009 adversely impacted our plan to market and sell the Photonics and Photoflash businesses. We initiated necessary actions during fiscal year 2009 to respond to these changing circumstances and continued to actively market these businesses. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, we determined that we could not effectively market and sell the Photonics business given the changed circumstances and, after careful consideration, we decided to cease our plan to actively market and sell the Photonics business. The Photonics business is no longer reflected as discontinued operations. However, we remain committed to a plan to actively market and sell the Photoflash business. This business continues to be reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this annual report on Form 10-K.  

In addition, during December 2008, our management approved the shut down of certain instrument businesses within our Human Health segment: Cellular Screening Fluorescence and Luminescence workstations, Analytical Proteomics Instruments and Proteomics and Genomics Instruments. The shut down of the Cellular Screening Fluorescence and Luminescence workstations business, the Analytical Proteomics Instruments business, and the Proteomics and Genomics Instruments business resulted in a pre-tax gain of $0.4 million and a pre-tax loss of $4.8 million related to lease and severance costs and the reduction of fixed assets and inventory to net realizable value during fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

In November 2007, we acquired ViaCell, which specializes in the collection, testing, processing and preservation of umbilical cord blood stem cells. Following the ViaCell acquisition, our Board approved a plan to sell the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses that were acquired with ViaCell. We determined that both businesses did not strategically fit with the other products offered by our Human Health segment. We also determined that without investing capital into the operations of both businesses, we could not effectively compete with larger companies that focus on the market for such products. After careful consideration, we decided in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008 to shut down the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses. We recorded a pre-tax loss of $8.0 million for severance and facility closure costs during fiscal year 2008 and recorded an additional pre-tax loss of $1.3 million related to facility closure costs during fiscal year 2009.  

During fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, we settled various commitments related to the divestiture of other discontinued operations and recognized a pre-tax loss of $2.1 million in fiscal year 2009, a pre-tax loss of $0.4 million in fiscal year 2008 and a pre-tax loss of $1.0 million in fiscal year 2007. During fiscal year 2009, we reached a settlement with the landlord of a closed facility and recognized a pre-tax loss of $1.4 million. During fiscal year 2007, we substantially completed the remediation of an environmental matter within the Lithography business and recognized a pre-tax loss of $0.7 million. The benefit from income taxes of $11.3 million recorded in discontinued operations in fiscal year 2008 includes $8.5 million of income tax benefits related to the favorable settlement of several income tax audits worldwide during the third quarter of fiscal year 2008 as discussed in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Summary operating results of the discontinued operations for the periods prior to disposition were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Business Combinations and Asset Purchases  

Acquisition of Remaining Interest in the Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry Joint Venture. In January 2010, we entered into a binding letter agreement with DH Technologies Development Pte Ltd., a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation, to purchase the remaining interest in our joint venture with MDS, Inc. for the development and manufacturing of our Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (“ICPMS”) product line. We expect this acquisition will help ensure the continued success of the premier ICPMS product line through a dedicated and consistent approach. We anticipate that the transfer of the interest will be completed by the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. We expect to pay approximately $35.0 million in cash for this acquisition, and to record a gain on our previously held interest. We expect to report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Purchase of Intangible Assets from GE Healthcare. In September 2009, we purchased the core technology and patents of GE Healthcare’s 3H and 14C Catalog Radiochemicals, Scintillation Proximity Assay (“SPA”) reagents and Cytostar-T plate portfolios for aggregate consideration of $12.0 million in cash. The Catalog Radiochemical products are used for a variety of research applications, including screening of potential drug candidates through binding assays. The SPA bead-based light-emitting assay and Cytostar-T plate technologies are offerings that enable the automation of High Throughput Screening (“HTS”) processes to help drug discovery researchers determine if potential new drug compounds are effective against their intended disease targets. We expect that incorporation of these technologies will strengthen our G-protein-coupled receptor and Kinase research product lines and complement our HTS and research reagent solutions. The core technology and patents that we purchased do not meet the definition of a business, as the purchased assets were not accompanied by any associated processes. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. We report the amortization of these intangible assets within the results of our Human Health segment from the purchase date. We periodically review the carrying value of these assets based, in part, upon current estimated market values and our projections of anticipated future cash flows. We undertake this review on a periodic basis for long-lived assets when facts and circumstances suggest that cash flows related to those assets may be diminished. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for additional details.  

Acquisition of Sym-Bio LifeScience Co., Ltd. In August 2009, we acquired the outstanding equity interests of Sym-Bio LifeScience Co., Ltd. (“Sym-Bio”). Sym-Bio is a major supplier of diagnostics instruments and related reagents, particularly in the area of infectious diseases, to hospitals in China. We expect this acquisition to expand our access to the hospital market segment in China, offering a larger base from which to expand our prenatal and newborn screening business in the country and providing us with a significant diagnostics manufacturing and research and development base within China. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired. We paid the shareholders of Sym-Bio approximately  

42  

Table of Contents 

 $51.2 million in cash for this acquisition plus an additional amount of $12.5 million held in an escrow account for contingencies, of which $7.3 million is for potential additional contingent consideration with a fair value of $6.9 million at the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of Analytica of Branford, Inc. In May 2009, we acquired the outstanding stock of Analytica of Branford, Inc. (“Analytica”). Analytica is a leading developer of mass spectrometry and ion source technology. We expect this acquisition to allow us to offer our customers access to critical technologies such as time-of-flight and quadrupole mass spectrometers and new ion sources that provide more complete information as well as better throughput. We also gained significant intellectual property in the field of mass spectrometry and ion source technology. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the employee workforce acquired. We paid the shareholders of Analytica approximately $21.7 million in cash for this acquisition plus up to $1.3 million in additional consideration, which we expect to pay during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, we expect to pay approximately $1.1 million to the shareholders of Analytica as additional purchase price for the election to treat the acquisition as a deemed asset sale. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, all of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of Opto Technology Inc. In January 2009, we acquired the outstanding stock of Opto Technology Inc. (“Opto Technology”). Opto Technology is a supplier of light-emitting diode (“LED”) based lighting components and subsystems. We expect this acquisition to expand our portfolio of high brightness LED components by adding optical subsystems to provide energy efficient solid state lighting solutions to original equipment manufacturers. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets represents cost and revenue synergies specific to us as well as non-capitalizable intangible assets, such as the customer base acquired. We paid the shareholders of Opto Technology approximately $20.6 million in cash for this acquisition plus up to $8.0 million in potential additional contingent consideration, of which we recorded $4.9 million as the fair value at the acquisition date. During fiscal year 2009, we recorded a decrease of $0.2 million to the potential additional contingent consideration as a fair value adjustment through current period earnings. During fiscal year 2009, we received approximately $0.2 million from the former shareholders of Opto Technology for net working capital adjustments. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of Arnel, Inc. In December 2008, we acquired the outstanding stock of Arnel, Inc. (“Arnel”). Arnel provides custom engineered solutions for gas chromatography applications in the petrochemical, food and beverage, and industrial hygiene markets. We expect this acquisition to expand our chromatography portfolio and strengthen our application-focused products to better serve the biofuels and hydrocarbon processing industries. We paid the shareholders of Arnel approximately $2.0 million in cash for this transaction plus potential additional contingent consideration, which we expect to be immaterial to us. We determined that $0.5 million of the contingent consideration was probable, recorded the accrual at the date of acquisition and paid that amount to the shareholders of Arnel during the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of VaConics Lighting, Inc. In May 2008, we acquired specified assets and assumed specified liabilities of VaConics Lighting, Inc. (“VaConics”), a leading provider of custom and standard ceramic xenon arc lamps. We expect this acquisition to expand our xenon lighting technology by increasing our offerings of lamp products that include medical endoscopes, surgical headlamps, forensic analyses, video projectors, searchlights,  

43  

Table of Contents 

 and infrared lighting. We paid approximately $3.9 million in cash for this transaction. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, we paid VaConics approximately $0.1 million of additional consideration for net working capital adjustments. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, all of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of LabMetrix Technologies S.A. In March 2008, we acquired all of the stock of LabMetrix Technologies S.A. (“LabMetrix”) and acquired specified assets and assumed specified liabilities of LabMetrix Technologies Ltd. and LabMetrix Technologies, Inc., a provider of metrology-based multi-vendor analytical instrument qualification solutions. We expect this acquisition to add technology, tools, processes and compliance expertise to our suite of OneSource® laboratory services by strengthening our support of customers in a wide range of industries including the pharmaceutical, medical device, food, toy and other consumer goods industries. We paid the shareholders of LabMetrix approximately $4.3 million in cash for this transaction plus potential additional contingent consideration. We determined that $1.9 million of the contingent consideration was probable and recorded the accrual at the date of acquisition. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we received approximately $0.1 million from the former shareholders of LabMetrix for net working capital adjustments. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2009, we paid approximately $0.1 million to the former shareholders of LabMetrix for net working capital adjustments. We determined that an additional $1.7 million of the contingent consideration was probable and recorded the accrual during fiscal year 2009, of which we paid $0.8 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill. None of the goodwill related to the LabMetrix acquisition is tax deductible and all of the goodwill related to the LabMetrix Technologies Ltd. and LabMetrix Technologies, Inc. acquisitions is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of Newborn Metabolic Screening Business from Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. In February 2008, we acquired the outstanding stock of Pediatrix Screening, Inc., which constituted the newborn metabolic screening business of Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc., and is now known as PerkinElmer Genetics, Inc. (“PKI Genetics”). PKI Genetics provides neonatal screening and consultative services to hospitals, medical groups and various states. We expect this acquisition to expand our capabilities to supply state laboratories and other agencies with comprehensive newborn screening solutions. We initially paid Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. approximately $66.3 million in cash for this transaction. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, we received approximately $0.3 million from Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. for net working capital adjustments. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we paid approximately $2.3 million to Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. as additional purchase price for the election to treat the acquisition as a deemed asset sale. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, all of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Human Health segment from the acquisition date.  

The fiscal year 2009 acquisitions of Sym-Bio, Analytica and Opto Technology were accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Allocations of the purchase price for these acquisitions were based on estimates of the fair value of the net assets acquired, and are subject to adjustment upon finalization of the purchase price allocation. The fair values assigned to contingent consideration, tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. Contingent consideration has been measured at fair value at the acquisition date with changes in the fair value after the acquisition date affecting earnings. The acquisitions completed prior to fiscal year 2009 were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Allocation of the purchase price for the acquisitions was based on estimates of the fair value of the net assets acquired, and is subject to adjustment upon finalization of the purchase price allocation. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. The excess purchase price over those assigned values was recorded as goodwill.  

44  

Table of Contents 

As of January 3, 2010, the purchase price and related allocations for the Sym-Bio acquisition was preliminary. The preliminary allocation may be revised as a result of additional information regarding taxes. For acquisitions completed subsequent to fiscal year 2008, during the measurement period, we will recognize additional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. Adjustments to the initial allocation of the purchase price during the measurement period require the revision of comparative prior period financial information when reissued in subsequent financial statements. The effect of measurement period adjustments to the allocation of the purchase price would be as if the adjustments had been completed on the acquisition date. The effects of measurement period adjustments may cause changes in depreciation, amortization, or other income or expense recognized in prior periods. All changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are included in current period earnings.  

Contingencies, Including Tax Matters  

We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. We accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. We have accrued $4.6 million as of January 3, 2010, which represents our management’s estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. This amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where we have been named a PRP, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant named parties to contribute. We expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. As assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had or are expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. While it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded.  

Enzo Biochem, Inc. and Enzo Life Sciences, Inc. (collectively, “Enzo”) filed a complaint dated October 23, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Civil Action No. 02-8448, against Amersham plc, Amersham BioSciences, PerkinElmer, Inc., PerkinElmer Life Sciences, Inc., Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, Sigma Chemical Company, Inc., Molecular Probes, Inc., and Orchid BioSciences, Inc. The complaint alleges that we have breached our distributorship and settlement agreements with Enzo, infringed Enzo’s patents, engaged in unfair competition and fraud, and committed torts against Enzo by, among other things, engaging in commercial development and exploitation of Enzo’s patented products and technology, separately and together with the other defendants. Enzo seeks injunctive and monetary relief. In 2003, the court severed the lawsuit and ordered Enzo to serve individual complaints against the five defendants. We subsequently filed an answer and a counterclaim alleging that Enzo’s patents are invalid. In July 2006, the court issued a decision regarding the construction of the claims in Enzo’s patents that effectively limited the coverage of certain of those claims and, we believe, excludes certain of our products from the coverage of Enzo’s patents. Summary judgment motions were filed by the defendants in January 2007, and a hearing with oral argument on those motions took place in July 2007. In January 2009, the case was assigned to a new district court judge and in March 2009, the new judge denied the pending summary judgment motions without prejudice and ordered a stay of the case until the federal appellate court decides Enzo’s appeal of the judgment of the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut in Enzo Biochem vs. Applera Corp. and Tropix, Inc., which involves a number of the same patents and which could materially affect the scope of Enzo’s case against us.  

45  

Table of Contents 

PharmaStem Therapeutics, Inc. (“PharmaStem”) filed a complaint dated February 22, 2002 against ViaCell, which is now our wholly owned subsidiary, and several other defendants in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, alleging infringement of United States Patents No. 5,004,681 and No. 5,192,553, relating to certain aspects of the collection, cryopreservation and storage of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells from umbilical cord blood (“PharmaStem I”). After several years of proceedings at the District Court level, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision in July 2007 that ViaCell did not infringe these two patents and that the two patents are invalid. PharmaStem filed a certiorari petition in January 2008 seeking to have the United States Supreme Court review the appellate court’s decision as to the invalidity of the patents, but did not seek any further review of the non-infringement decision. However, the United States Supreme Court denied certiorari in March 2008, so the decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in favor of ViaCell is final and non-appealable. PharmaStem had also filed a second complaint against ViaCell and other defendants in July 2004 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging infringement of United States Patents No. 6,461,645 and 6,569,427, which also relate to certain aspects of the collection, cryopreservation and storage of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells from umbilical cord blood (“PharmaStem II”). The Delaware court granted ViaCell’s motion in October 2005 to stay the proceedings in PharmaStem II pending the outcome of PharmaStem I and a decision from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“U.S. PTO”) on certain patent re-examination issues. On September 2, 2008, the U.S. PTO issued a Re-examination Certificate cancelling all claims of United States Patent No. 6,461,645, and on September 16, 2008, the U.S. PTO issued a Re-examination Certificate cancelling all claims of United States Patent No. 6,569,427. As a result of the cancellation of all patent claims involved in PharmaStem II by the U.S. PTO, we sought and in December 2009 the court entered a Stipulation of Dismissal, dismissing all claims between the parties with prejudice.  

We believe we have meritorious defenses to these lawsuits and other proceedings, and we are contesting the actions vigorously in all of the above unresolved matters. While each of these matters is subject to uncertainty, in the opinion of our management, based on its review of the information available at this time, the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.  

We re-measured several of our uncertain tax positions related to fiscal years 2006 through 2008 during fiscal year 2009 based on new information arising from events during the year that affected positions for those years. We also effectively settled several income tax audits worldwide. The re-measurements and closure of audits included positions in Hong Kong, the United Kingdom, Australia and the United States. During fiscal year 2008, we effectively settled several income tax audits worldwide, including in Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States covering various years ranging from 1998 through 2005. During fiscal year 2005, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service concluded its audit of our federal income taxes for fiscal years 1999 through 2002. There was a single open issue related to this audit which we favorably resolved during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. Tax years ranging from 1999 through 2009 remain open to examination by various state and foreign tax jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations, such as Singapore, Canada, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States. The tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction. We regularly review our tax positions in each significant taxing jurisdiction in the process of evaluating our unrecognized tax benefits. We make adjustments to our unrecognized tax benefits when: (i) facts and circumstances regarding a tax position change, causing a change in management’s judgment regarding that tax position; (ii) a tax position is effectively settled with a tax authority; and/or (iii) the statute of limitations expires regarding a tax position.  

We are also subject to various other claims, legal proceedings and investigations covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business activities. Although we have established accruals for potential losses that we believe are probable and reasonably estimable, in the opinion of our management, based on its review of the information available at this time, the total cost of resolving these other contingencies at January 3, 2010 should not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements included in  

46  

Table of Contents 

 this annual report on Form 10-K. However, each of these matters is subject to uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to us.  

Reporting Segment Results of Continuing Operations  

Human Health  

2009 Compared to 2008. Sales for fiscal year 2009 were $736.5 million, as compared to $774.6 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $38.1 million, or 5%, which includes an approximate 3% decrease in sales attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by an approximate 1% increase from acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by product type for fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The decrease in sales in our Human Health segment reflects a decrease in diagnostics market sales of $23.9 million and a decrease in research market sales of $14.2 million. This decline in our Human Health segment sales during fiscal year 2009 was due primarily to the decreased demand for our medical imaging products in the diagnostics market, which has resulted from constraints on medical providers’ capital budgets and a lack of financing availability, as well as government stimulus related order delays in the research market, as many of our customers are redirecting their budgets in hopes of obtaining grants for larger instrument purchases.  

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2009 was $79.9 million, as compared to $79.1 million for fiscal year 2008, an increase of $0.8 million, or 1%. Amortization of intangible assets was $41.3 million and $40.7 million for fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008, respectively. Restructuring and lease charges were $9.2 million for fiscal year 2009 as a result of our Q1 2009 and Q3 2009 Plans. Restructuring and lease charges were $3.7 million for fiscal year 2008 as a result of our Q3 2008 Plan. Purchase accounting adjustments for other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions completed to date in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $1.3 million for fiscal year 2009. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions completed to date in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $1.2 million for fiscal year 2009. The favorable impact of changes in product mix, especially growth in sales of higher gross margin products, productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives increased operating income, which was partially offset by lower demand, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased pension expenses and foreign exchange.  

2008 Compared to 2007. Sales for fiscal year 2008 were $774.6 million, as compared to $631.6 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $143.0 million, or 22.7%, which includes an approximate 3% increase in sales attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates and an approximate 11% increase from acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by product type for fiscal year 2008, as compared to fiscal year 2007, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in sales in our Human Health segment was primarily a result of an increase in diagnostics market sales of $110.5 million and an increase in research market sales of $32.5 million. This increase in our Human Health segment sales during fiscal year 2008 was due primarily to the increased sales volume in both the diagnostics and research markets, which resulted from capacity improvements with our medical imaging products, continued expansion of neonatal and prenatal screening platforms, the addition of our cord blood business with the acquisition of ViaCell, as well as sales of higher end instrumentation in the research market.  

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2008 was $79.1 million, as compared to $72.3 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $6.8 million, or 9%. Amortization of intangible assets was $40.7 million and $29.9 million for fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2007, respectively. The gains on the settlement of the insurance claim for the fire in our Boston, Massachusetts facility in March 2005 were $15.3 million for fiscal year 2007. Restructuring and lease charges were $3.7 million for fiscal year 2008 as a result of our Q3 2008 Plan. Restructuring and lease charges were $5.4 million for fiscal year 2007 as a result of our Q1 2007 and Q4 2007 Plans. Amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record inventory and the IPR&D charge from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2007 was $2.5 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The combined  

47  

Table of Contents 

 favorable impact of increased sales volume and capacity and productivity improvements increased operating income, which was partially offset by inflation and increased sales and marketing expenses to support recent acquisitions, particularly the acquisition of ViaCell.  

Environmental Health  

2009 Compared to 2008. Sales for fiscal year 2009 were $1,075.7 million, as compared to $1,185.4 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $109.7 million, or 9%, which includes an approximate 3% decrease in sales attributable to unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates, partially offset by an approximate 1% increase from acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by product type for fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The decrease in sales in our Environmental Health segment reflects decreases in environmental, safety and security and industrial markets sales of $119.5 million, partially offset by an increase in laboratory services market sales of $9.8 million. This decline in our Environmental Health segment sales during fiscal year 2009 was due primarily to private and public testing labs and traditional chemical and semiconductor markets reducing capital purchases in response to tight capital budgets and difficulty accessing credit markets, as well as continued weak demand in detection and intrusion sensor markets, partially offset by an increase in sales in laboratory services and consumer safety and food testing products.  

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2009 was $98.4 million, as compared to $149.3 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $50.8 million, or 34%. Amortization of intangible assets was $16.2 million and $14.9 million for fiscal year 2009 and fiscal year 2008, respectively. Restructuring and lease charges were $11.0 million for fiscal year 2009 as a result of our Q1 2009 and Q3 2009 Plans. Restructuring and lease charges were $3.2 million for fiscal year 2008 as a result of our Q3 2008 Plan. Purchase accounting adjustments for other acquisition costs related to certain acquisitions completed to date in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $0.7 million for fiscal year 2009. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions completed to date in fiscal year 2009 added an expense of approximately $0.2 million for fiscal year 2009. The combined unfavorable impact of decreased sales volume, increased sales and marketing expenses, particularly in emerging territories, increased pension expenses and foreign exchange decreased operating income for fiscal year 2009, which was partially offset by productivity improvements and cost containment initiatives.  

2008 Compared to 2007. Sales for fiscal year 2008 were $1,185.4 million, as compared to $1,097.3 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $88.1 million, or 8%, which includes an approximate 2% increase in sales attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates and an approximate 1% increase from acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by product type for fiscal year 2008, as compared to fiscal year 2007, and includes the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations and acquisitions. The increase in sales in our Environmental Health segment was primarily a result of increases in environmental, safety and security and industrial markets sales of $51.3 million and an increase in laboratory services market sales of $36.8 million. This increase in our Environmental Health segment sales during fiscal year 2008 was due primarily to private testing labs increasing capital purchases and an increase in sales in laboratory services.  

Operating income from continuing operations for fiscal year 2008 was $149.3 million, as compared to $131.3 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $17.9 million, or 14%. Amortization of intangible assets was $14.9 million and $14.2 million for fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2007, respectively. Restructuring and lease charges were $3.2 million for fiscal year 2008 as a result of our Q3 2008 Plan. Restructuring and lease charges were $9.0 million for fiscal year 2007 as a result of our Q1 2007 and Q4 2007 Plans. The combined favorable impact of increased sales volume and productivity improvements increased operating income, which was partially offset by inflation, and increased freight costs.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We require cash to pay our operating expenses, make capital expenditures, make strategic acquisitions, service our debt and other long-term liabilities, repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock. Our principal sources of funds are from our operations and the capital markets, particularly the debt markets. We anticipate that our internal operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, smaller acquisitions, interest payments on our debt and dividends on our common stock. However, we expect to use external sources to satisfy the balance of our debt when due, any larger acquisitions and other long-term liabilities.  

Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally generated funds include:  

   •    deterioration of sales due to weakness in markets in which we sell our products and services, and  

   •    changes in our working capital requirements.  

Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include:  

   •    financial covenants contained in the financial instruments controlling our borrowings that limit our total borrowing capacity,  

   •    increases in interest rates applicable to our outstanding variable rate debt,  

   •    a ratings downgrade that would limit our ability to borrow under our amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our overall access to the corporate debt market,  

   •    increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, that affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis,  

   •    a decrease in the market price for our common stock, and  

   •    volatility in the public debt and equity markets.  

Cash Flows  

Fiscal Year 2009  

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $158.3 million for fiscal year 2009, compared to net cash provided by continuing operations of $214.5 million for fiscal year 2008, a decrease of $56.3 million. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2009 was a result of lower income from continuing operations of $92.7 million, partially offset by depreciation and amortization of $91.8 million and restructuring and lease charges of $20.2 million. Also contributing to this decrease was a net increase in working capital of $48.1 million. Contributing to the net increase in working capital in fiscal year 2009, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, was an increase in accounts receivable of $28.1 million, which included the repayment and termination of our accounts receivable securitization facility for $40.0 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $14.1 million and an increase in inventory of $5.8 million. The increase in inventory was primarily the result of lower sales volume and expanding the amount of inventory held at sales locations within our Environmental Health and Human Health segments to improve responsiveness to customer requirements. The decrease in accounts payable was a result of the timing of disbursements during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. The increase in accounts receivable was a result of the repayment and termination of our accounts receivable securitization facility for $40.0 million, partially offset by lower sales volume and strong performance in accounts receivable collections during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. Changes in accrued expenses, other assets and liabilities and other items, net, totaled $1.5 million in fiscal year 2009, and primarily related to tax audit settlements and the timing of payments for tax, restructuring, and salary and benefits.  

Investing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations investing activities was $153.0 million for fiscal year 2009, compared to $133.7 million of cash used in continuing operations investing activities for fiscal year  

49  

Table of Contents 

 2008. For fiscal year 2009, we used $114.2 million of net cash for acquisitions and core technology purchases and used $8.5 million for earn-out payments, acquired licenses, related transaction costs for acquisitions completed prior to fiscal year 2009 and other costs in connection with these and other transactions. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2009 were $31.7 million, primarily in the areas of tooling and other capital equipment purchases. These cash outflows were partially offset by $1.4 million related to the release of restricted cash balances.  

Financing Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations financing activities was $2.4 million for fiscal year 2009, as compared to $101.1 million of cash used in continuing operations financing activities for fiscal year 2008. In fiscal year 2009, we repurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of our common stock, including 28,890 shares to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $14.6 million, including commissions. This compares to repurchases of approximately 3.0 million shares of our common stock, including 37,521 shares to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for fiscal year 2008 for an aggregate of $75.5 million, including commissions. This use of cash was offset by proceeds from common stock option exercises of $6.5 million, including the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2009. This compares to the proceeds from common stock option exercises of $44.1 million, including the related excess tax benefit, for fiscal year 2008. During fiscal year 2009, debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility totaled $406.5 million, which was offset by debt reductions of $363.1 million. This compares to debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $476.0 million and proceeds of $150.0 million from the issuance of our seven-year senior unsecured notes at a rate of 6%, which were offset by debt reductions of $633.0 million during fiscal year 2008. In fiscal year 2008, we also paid $27.1 million to settle forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million at a weighted average interest rate of 4.25% and $2.0 million for debt issuance costs. In addition, we paid $32.7 million in dividends during fiscal year 2009.  

Fiscal Year 2008  

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $214.5 million for fiscal year 2008, compared to net cash provided by continuing operations of $198.8 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $15.8 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2008 was driven by income from continuing operations of $127.8 million, depreciation and amortization of $88.6 million and restructuring and lease charges of $6.9 million. These amounts were partially offset by a net increase in working capital of $17.0 million. Contributing to the net increase in working capital in fiscal year 2008, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, was an increase in accounts receivable of $11.7 million and an increase in inventory of $10.2 million, offset by an increase in accounts payable of $4.8 million. The increase in inventory was primarily the result of expanding the amount of inventory held at sales locations to improve responsiveness to customer requirements. In both the Environmental Health and Human Health segments, the timing of revenue during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 increased the accounts receivable balance, which was offset by the timing of disbursements in accounts payable during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. There was a decrease of $5.0 million in our accounts receivable securitization facility during fiscal year 2008, which totaled $40.0 million and $45.0 million at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively. Changes in accrued expenses, other assets and liabilities and other items, net, totaled $8.3 million in fiscal year 2008, and primarily related to tax audit settlements and the timing of payments for tax, restructuring, and salary and benefits.  

Investing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations investing activities was $133.7 million for fiscal year 2008, compared to $348.1 million of cash used in continuing operations investing activities for fiscal year 2007. For fiscal year 2008, we used $76.7 million of net cash for acquisitions and core technology purchases and used $14.9 million for earn-out payments, acquired licenses, related transaction costs for acquisitions completed prior to fiscal year 2008 and other costs in connection with these and other transactions. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2008 were $43.4 million, primarily in the areas of tooling and other capital equipment purchases. These cash outflows were partially offset by $0.4 million related to the release of restricted cash balances.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Financing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations financing activities was $101.1 million for fiscal year 2008, as compared to $148.9 million of cash provided by continuing operations financing activities for fiscal year 2007. In fiscal year 2008, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of our common stock, including 37,521 shares to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $75.5 million, including commissions. This compares to repurchases of approximately 8.1 million shares of our common stock in the open market for fiscal year 2007 for an aggregate of $203.0 million, including commissions. This use of cash was offset by proceeds from common stock option exercises of $44.1 million, including the related excess tax benefit for fiscal year 2008. During fiscal year 2008, debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility totaled $476.0 million, proceeds from the issuance of our seven-year senior unsecured notes at a rate of 6% totaled $150.0 million, which was offset by debt reductions to our credit facilities, with aggregate payments of $633.0 million. This compares to debt reductions in fiscal year 2007 of $212.4 million. In fiscal year 2008, we also paid $27.1 million to settle forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million at a weighted average interest rate of 4.25% and $2.0 million for debt issuance costs. In addition, we paid $33.1 million in dividends for fiscal year 2008.  

Current Borrowing Arrangements  

Amended Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility. On August 13, 2007, we entered into an amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility providing for a facility through August 13, 2012, which amended and restated in its entirety our previous senior revolving credit agreement dated as of October 31, 2005. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, we exercised our option to increase the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility to $650.0 million from $500.0 million. Letters of credit in the aggregate amount of approximately $13.0 million were issued under the previous facility, which are treated as issued under the amended facility. We use the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes, which may include working capital, refinancing existing indebtedness, capital expenditures, share repurchases, acquisitions and strategic alliances. The interest rates under the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility are based on the Eurocurrency rate at the time of borrowing plus a margin, or the base rate from time to time. The base rate is the higher of (i) the corporate base rate announced from time to time by Bank of America, N.A. and (ii) the Federal Funds rate plus 50 basis points. We may allocate all or a portion of our indebtedness under the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility to interest based upon the Eurocurrency rate plus a margin, or the base rate. The Eurocurrency margin as of January 3, 2010 was 40 basis points. The weighted average Eurocurrency interest rate as of January 3, 2010 was 0.23%, resulting in a weighted average effective Eurocurrency rate, including the margin, of 0.63%. We had drawn down approximately $406.0 million of borrowings in U.S. Dollars under the facility as of January 3, 2010, with interest based on the above described Eurocurrency rate. The agreement for the facility contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants and events of default customary for financings of this type, which are consistent with those financial covenants contained in our previous senior revolving credit agreement. The financial covenants in our amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility include debt-to-capital ratios and a contingent maximum total leverage ratio, applicable if our credit rating is down-graded below investment grade. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of January 3, 2010.  

6% Senior Unsecured Notes. On May 30, 2008, we issued and sold seven-year senior notes at a rate of 6% with a face value of $150.0 million and received $150.0 million in gross proceeds from the issuance. The debt, which matures in May 2015, is unsecured. Interest on the 6% senior notes is payable semi-annually on May 30th and November 30th. We may redeem some or all of our 6% senior notes at any time in an amount not less than 10% of the original aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, plus the applicable make-whole amount. The financial covenants in our 6% senior notes include debt-to-capital ratios which, if our credit rating is down-graded below investment grade, would be replaced by a contingent maximum total leverage ratio. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants as of January 3, 2010.  

We entered into forward interest rate contracts in October 2007, with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%, that were intended to hedge movements in interest rates  

51  

Table of Contents 

 prior to our expected debt issuance. In May 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million upon the issuance of our 6% senior unsecured notes, and recognized $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, of accumulated derivative losses in other comprehensive (loss) income. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we concluded that the remaining portion of the expected debt issuance, with a notional amount totaling $150.0 million, was no longer probable. As a result of the debt issuance no longer being probable, we discontinued and settled the forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million and recognized a loss of $17.5 million, in interest and other expense, net. As of January 3, 2010, the balance remaining in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income related to the effective cash flow hedges was $6.5 million, net of taxes of $4.2 million. The derivative losses are being amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. We amortized into interest expense $2.0 million during fiscal year 2009 and $1.2 million during fiscal year 2008 for these derivative losses.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Receivables Securitization Facility. During fiscal year 2001, we established a wholly owned consolidated subsidiary to maintain a receivables purchase agreement with a third-party financial institution. Under this arrangement, we sold, on a revolving basis, certain of our accounts receivable balances to the consolidated subsidiary which simultaneously sold an undivided percentage ownership interest in designated pools of receivables to a third-party financial institution. As collections reduced the balance of sold accounts receivable, new receivables were sold. Our consolidated subsidiary retained the risk of credit loss on the receivables. Accordingly, the full amount of the allowance for doubtful accounts had been provided for on our balance sheets. The amount of receivables sold and outstanding with the third-party financial institution was not to exceed $65.0 million, reduced to $50.0 million in March 2009. Under the terms of this agreement, our consolidated subsidiary retained collection and administrative responsibilities for the balances. The agreement required the third-party financial institution to be paid interest during the period from the date the receivable was sold to its maturity date. The servicing fees received constituted adequate compensation for services performed. No servicing asset or liability was therefore recorded.  

In March 2009, our consolidated subsidiary entered into an agreement to extend the term of the accounts receivable securitization facility to December 30, 2009. On June 30, 2009, our consolidated subsidiary exercised the right to terminate the receivables purchase agreement with a third-party financial institution, releasing both parties of their rights, liabilities and obligations under this agreement.  

The aggregate amount of receivables sold to the consolidated subsidiary was $72.8 million as of December 28, 2008. At December 28, 2008, an undivided interest of $40.0 million in the receivables had been sold to the third-party financial institution under this agreement. The remaining interest in receivables of $32.8 million that was sold to and held by the consolidated subsidiary was included in accounts receivable in the consolidated financial statements at December 28, 2008.  

Dividends  

Our Board declared regular quarterly cash dividends of $0.07 per share in each quarter of fiscal years 2009 and 2008, resulting in an annual dividend rate of $0.28 per share. On January 25, 2010, we announced that our Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.07 per share for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 that is payable in May 2010. In the future, our Board may determine to reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in order to fund investments for growth, repurchase shares or conserve capital resources.  

52  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at January 3, 2010 for continuing and discontinued operations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The credit facility borrowings carry variable interest rates; the amounts included in this table do not contemplate interest obligations.  

 (2) For the purposes of this table, the obligation has been calculated without interest obligations.  

 (3) The amount includes accrued interest, net of tax benefits, and penalties. We have excluded $43.6 million, including accrued interest, net of tax benefits, and penalties, from the amount related to our uncertain tax positions as we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of related future payments.  

Capital Expenditures  

During fiscal year 2010, we expect to invest an amount for capital expenditures similar to that in fiscal year 2009, primarily to introduce new products, to improve our operating processes, to shift the production capacity to lower cost locations, and to develop information technology. We expect to use our available cash and internally generated funds to fund these expenditures.  

Other Potential Liquidity Considerations  

At January 3, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $179.7 million and an amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility with $231.0 million available for additional borrowing. In May 2008, we finalized an issuance of 6% seven-year senior unsecured notes with proceeds of approximately $150.0 million. The proceeds from this debt issuance were used to repay existing borrowings under our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility. Most of our cash is denominated in foreign currencies. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct our business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed.  

On November 6, 2006, we announced that our Board authorized us to repurchase up to 10.0 million shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”). The Repurchase Program would have expired on October 25, 2010, unless terminated earlier by our Board, and could have been suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2007, we repurchased in the open market approximately 8.1 million shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of $203.0 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we repurchased 1.9 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $56.6 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. These repurchases completed our repurchase of the 10.0 million shares in the aggregate authorized under the Repurchase Program.  

53  

Table of Contents 

On October 23, 2008, we announced that our Board authorized us to repurchase up to 10.0 million additional shares of common stock under a stock repurchase program (the “New Repurchase Program”). The New Repurchase Program will expire on October 22, 2012 unless terminated earlier by our Board, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2008, we repurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $18.0 million, including commissions, under the New Repurchase Program. During fiscal year 2009, we repurchased approximately 1.0 million shares of common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $14.2 million, including commissions, under the New Repurchase Program.  

Our Board has authorized us to repurchase shares of common stock to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans. During fiscal year 2009, we repurchased 28,890 shares of common stock for this purpose. During fiscal year 2008, we repurchased 37,521 shares of common stock. The repurchased shares have been reflected as additional authorized but unissued shares, with the payments reflected in common stock and capital in excess of par value.  

The repurchased shares have been reflected as additional authorized but unissued shares, with the payments reflected in common stock and capital in excess of par value. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with corporate programs. If we continue to repurchase shares, the repurchase program will be funded using our existing financial resources, including cash and cash equivalents, and our existing amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility.  

On November 5, 2009, the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009 was enacted and allows businesses with net operating losses for 2008 or 2009 to carry back those losses for up to five years. We expect to carry back losses of up to $80.0 million from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2005. We expect this carryback will result in a federal income tax refund of up to $28.0 million in fiscal year 2010.  

In connection with the settlement of an insurance claim resulting from a fire that occurred at our facility in Boston, Massachusetts in March 2005, we accrued $9.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, representing our management’s estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters, which was damaged in the fire. We paid $2.5 million during fiscal year 2009, $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. We anticipate that the remaining accrual of $1.7 million will be settled by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. We are actively marketing and have a plan to sell the building.  

Distressed global financial markets have adversely impacted general economic conditions by reducing liquidity and credit availability, creating increased volatility in security prices, widening credit spreads, and decreasing valuations of certain investments. The widening of credit spreads may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses and may affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or hold. Increases in credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit at rates we consider to be reasonable, could affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. We cannot predict how long these conditions will exist or how our businesses may be affected. In difficult global financial markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our business activities.  

Our pension plans have not experienced any material impact on liquidity or counterparty exposure due to the volatility in the credit markets; however, as a result of losses experienced in global equity markets, our pension funds had a negative return for fiscal year 2008, offset by modest gains for fiscal year 2009, which in turn created increased pension costs in fiscal year 2009 and potentially in additional future periods for all pension plans. We may be required to fund our pension plans outside the United States with a contribution of up to $11.5 million by the end of fiscal year 2010, and we could potentially have to make additional funding payments in  

54  

Table of Contents 

 future periods for all pension plans. Additionally, we expect to contribute up to $20.0 million to the pension plan in the United States during fiscal year 2010 for the 2009 plan year in connection with the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act of 2009, as described above.  

Effects of Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncement  

In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on business combinations. This guidance establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements significant aspects of a business combination. Under this guidance, acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred; noncontrolling interests are reflected at fair value at the acquisition date; IPR&D is recorded at fair value as an intangible asset at the acquisition date; restructuring costs associated with a business combination are generally expensed rather than capitalized; contingent consideration is measured at fair value at the acquisition date, with changes in the fair value after the acquisition date affecting earnings; and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the measurement period will affect income tax expense. This guidance amends the accounting for income taxes such that adjustments made to valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies associated with acquisitions that closed prior to the effective date of this guidance would also apply the provisions of this guidance. This guidance also establishes disclosure requirements to enable the evaluation of the nature and financial effects of the business combination. This guidance was effective on a prospective basis for all business combinations for which the acquisition date was on or after the beginning of the first annual period subsequent to December 15, 2008, with the exception of the accounting for valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies. We adopted this authoritative guidance on business combinations in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our acquisition activity in fiscal year 2009. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on noncontrolling interests. This guidance establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parent’s ownership interest, and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. This guidance also establishes disclosure requirements that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. We adopted this authoritative guidance on noncontrolling interests in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In March 2008, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities. This guidance is intended to improve transparency in financial reporting by requiring enhanced disclosures of an entity’s derivative instruments and hedging activities and their effects on the entity’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. This guidance establishes principles and requirements for how an entity identifies derivative instruments and related hedged items that affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. This guidance also establishes disclosure requirements that the fair values of derivative instruments and their gains and losses are disclosed in a tabular format, that derivative features which are credit-risk related be disclosed to provide clarification to an entity’s liquidity and that cross-referencing be included within footnotes. We adopted this authoritative guidance on disclosures about derivative instruments and hedging activities in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 and have evaluated the requirements, which provide for additional disclosure on our derivative instruments. See Notes 20 and 21 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for our disclosure on derivative instruments and hedging activities.  

In April 2008, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on determination of the useful life of intangible assets. This guidance amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset. The objective of this guidance is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset and the period of expected cash  

55  

Table of Contents 

 flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under the new authoritative guidance on business combinations, and other accounting principles. This guidance applies to all intangible assets, whether acquired in a business combination or otherwise. We adopted this authoritative guidance on determination of the useful life of intangible assets in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In December 2008, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on employers’ disclosures about postretirement benefit plan assets, which requires additional disclosures for employers’ pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets were not included within the scope of the guidance on fair value measurements. This guidance requires employers to disclose information about fair value measurements of plan assets similar to the disclosures required under the fair value measurement guidance, including the investment policies and strategies for the major categories of plan assets, and significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. This guidance is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009, with earlier adoption permitted. We adopted this authoritative guidance about postretirement benefit plan assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 and have evaluated the requirements, which provide for additional disclosure on our postretirement benefit plan assets. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for our disclosure on postretirement benefit plan assets.  

In April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on accounting for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies, which amends and clarifies the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting, and related disclosures of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. This guidance is effective for assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual period subsequent to December 15, 2008. We adopted this authoritative guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009 in conjunction with the adoption of the new authoritative guidance on business combinations. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our acquisition activity in fiscal year 2009. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for the impact of this guidance on our consolidated financial statements.  

In April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on disclosures about fair value of financial instruments, which requires disclosures about fair value of financial instruments not measured on the balance sheet at fair value in interim financial statements as well as in annual financial statements. Prior to this guidance, fair values for these assets and liabilities were only disclosed annually. This guidance requires all entities to disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments and is effective for interim periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted for periods ending after March 15, 2009. In periods after initial adoption, this guidance requires comparative disclosures only for periods ending after initial adoption. We adopted this authoritative guidance in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In May 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on subsequent events, which establishes general standards for the accounting and disclosure of events or transactions that occur during the period after the balance sheet date that management will need to evaluate for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial statements, the circumstances under which an entity shall recognize events or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial statements, and the disclosures that an entity shall make about events or transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. We adopted this authoritative guidance on subsequent events in the second quarter of fiscal year 2009. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (the “Codification”) and the hierarchy of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). The Codification will now be the source of authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities. All guidance contained in the Codification carries an equal level of authority. Rules and interpretive releases of the Securities  

56  

Table of Contents 

 and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. As of the effective date, the Codification superseded all then-existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards. All other nongrandfathered non-SEC accounting literature not included in the Codification will become nonauthoritative. We adopted this authoritative guidance in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Effects of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  

In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on the accounting for transfers of financial assets. This guidance is intended to improve practices that have developed that are not consistent with the original intent and key requirements of the original disclosure requirements, including establishing a new “participating interest” definition that must be met for transfers of portions of financial assets to be eligible for sale accounting, clarifying and amending the derecognition criteria for a transfer to be accounted for as a sale, and changing the amount that can be recognized as a gain or loss on a transfer accounted for as a sale when beneficial interests are received by the transferor. This guidance also requires enhanced disclosures to provide information about transfers of financial assets and a transferor’s continuing involvement with transferred financial assets. We will be required to adopt this authoritative guidance on the accounting for transfers of financial assets in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. We expect the adoption of this guidance will not have a significant impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities. This guidance requires an enterprise to qualitatively assess the determination of the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity based on whether the entity has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. Also, this guidance requires an ongoing reconsideration of the primary beneficiary, and amends the events that trigger a reassessment of whether an entity is a variable interest entity. Enhanced disclosures are also required to provide information about an enterprise’s involvement in a variable interest entity. We will be required to adopt this authoritative guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. We expect the adoption of this guidance will not have a significant impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.  

In October 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements. This guidance establishes the accounting and reporting guidance for arrangements including multiple revenue-generating activities. This guidance provides amendments to the criteria for separating and measuring deliverables and allocating arrangement consideration to one or more units of accounting. The amendments in this guidance also establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable. Significantly enhanced disclosures are also required to provide information about a vendor’s multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements, including information about the nature and terms of significant deliverables, and a vendor’s performance within those arrangements. The amendments also require providing information about the significant judgments made and changes to those judgments and about how the application of the relative selling-price method affects the timing or amount of revenue recognition. We will be required to adopt this authoritative guidance on multiple-deliverable revenue arrangements in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. We are currently evaluating the requirements of this guidance and have not yet determined the impact of its adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.  

In October 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on certain revenue arrangements that include software elements. This guidance changes the accounting model for revenue arrangements that include both tangible products and software elements that are “essential to the functionality” of the product and excludes these products from current software revenue guidance. The new guidance will include factors to help companies determine what software elements are considered “essential to the functionality.” Once adopted the amendments will subject software-enabled products to other revenue guidance and disclosure requirements, such as guidance  

57  

Table of Contents 

 surrounding revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. We will be required to adopt this authoritative guidance on certain revenue arrangements that include software elements in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. We are currently evaluating the requirements of this guidance and have not yet determined the impact of its adoption on our condensed consolidated financial statements.  

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, restructuring, pensions and other postretirement benefits, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue recognition. We record product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, we recognize product revenue upon delivery, and we delay recognition of installation revenue until the installation is complete. For sales that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, we recognize revenue only after the acceptance criteria have been met. We defer revenue from services and recognize it over the contractual period, or as we render services and the customer accepts them. When arrangements include multiple elements, we use objective evidence of fair value to allocate revenue to the elements and recognize revenue when the criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. Because the majority of our sales relate to specific manufactured products or units rather than long-term customized projects, we generally do not experience significant changes in original estimates. Further, we have not experienced any significant refunds or promotional allowances that require significant estimation.  

Warranty costs. We provide for estimated warranty costs for products at the time of their sale. Warranty liabilities are based on estimated future repair costs using historical labor and material incurred in the warranty period.  

Allowances for doubtful accounts. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We generally compute our allowance for doubtful accounts by (i) applying specific percentage reserves on accounts that are past due and deemed uncollectible; and (ii) specifically reserving for customers known to be in financial difficulty. Therefore, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate beyond our estimates, we may have to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. This would reduce our earnings.  

Inventory valuation. We initially value inventory at actual cost to purchase and/or manufacture. We periodically review these values to ascertain that market value of the inventory continues to exceed its recorded cost. Generally, reductions in value of inventory below cost are caused by our maintenance of stocks of products in excess of demand, or technological obsolescence of the inventory. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and, when necessary, record provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based on either our estimated forecast of product demand and production requirements, or historical trailing usage of the product. If our sales do not materialize as planned or at historic levels, we may have to increase our reserve for excess and obsolete inventory. This would reduce our earnings. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold, resulting in lower costs of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Business combinations. Business combinations are accounted for at fair value. Acquisition costs are generally expensed as incurred and recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses; noncontrolling interests are valued at fair value at the acquisition date; IPR&D is recorded at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible asset at the acquisition date; restructuring costs associated with a business combination are generally expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally affect income tax expense. All changes that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments are included in current period earnings. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgment as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair value for assets and liabilities acquired. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including contingent consideration, are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, or require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets.  

Value of long-lived assets, including intangibles. We carry a variety of long-lived assets on our balance sheet including property and equipment, investments, identifiable intangible assets, and goodwill. We periodically review the carrying value of all of these assets based, in part, upon current estimated market values and our projections of anticipated future cash flows. We undertake this review (i) on an annual basis for assets such as goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets and (ii) on a periodic basis for other long-lived assets when facts and circumstances suggest that cash flows related to those assets may be diminished. Any impairment charge that we record reduces our earnings. The goodwill impairment test consists of a two-step process. The first step is the comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if the carrying value exceeds the fair value. The second step measures the amount of an impairment loss, and is only performed if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. We perform the annual impairment assessment on the later of January 1 or the first day of each fiscal year. This same impairment test will be performed at other times during the course of the year should an event occur which suggests that the recoverability of goodwill should be reconsidered. Non-amortizing intangibles are also subject to an annual impairment test. The impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess is recognized. In addition, we currently evaluate the remaining useful life of our non-amortizing intangible assets at least annually to determine whether events or circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. If events or circumstances indicate that the useful lives of non-amortizing intangible assets are no longer indefinite, the assets will be tested for impairment. These intangible assets will then be amortized prospectively over their estimated remaining useful life and accounted for in the same manner as other intangible assets that are subject to amortization. Through fiscal year 2009, we assessed the annual impairment testing using the analytical sciences and laboratory services, illumination and detection solutions, genetic screening, bio-discovery and medical imaging reporting units. We completed the annual impairment test using a measurement date of January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008, and concluded based on the first step of the process that there was no goodwill impairment. While we believe that our estimates of current value are reasonable, different assumptions regarding items such as future cash flows and the volatility inherent in markets which we serve could affect our evaluations and result in impairment charges against the carrying value of those assets.  

Employee compensation and benefits. Retirement and postretirement benefit plans are a significant cost of doing business, and represent obligations that will be ultimately settled far in the future, and therefore are subject to estimation. Retirement and postretirement benefit plan expenses are allocated to cost of sales, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses, in our consolidated statements of operations. We incurred expenses of $13.0 million in fiscal year 2009, $8.3 million in fiscal year 2008 and $12.5 million in fiscal year 2007 for our retirement and postretirement plans. We expect expenses of approximately $15.5 million in fiscal year 2010 for our retirement and postretirement plans. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the  

59  

Table of Contents 

 recognition of future benefit costs over the employee’s approximate service period based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made. We are required to make assumptions regarding such variables as the expected long-term rate of return on assets and the discount rate applied, to determine service cost and interest cost, in order to arrive at pension income or expense for the year. As of January 3, 2010, we estimated the expected long-term rate of return of assets in our pension portfolios in the United States was 8.5% and was 7.2% for all plans outside the United States. We have analyzed the rates of return on assets used and determined that these rates are reasonable based on the plans’ historical performance relative to the overall markets in the countries where we invest the assets, as well as our current expectations for long-term rates of returns for our pension assets. Our management will continue to assess the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumptions for each plan based on relevant market conditions, and will make adjustments to the assumptions as appropriate. Discount rate assumptions have been, and continue to be, based on the prevailing market long-term interest rates at the measurement date. If any of our assumptions were to change, our pension plan expenses would also change. A one-quarter percent increase in the discount rate would decrease our net periodic benefit cost by $0.5 million for fiscal year 2010 in the United States and by $0.6 million for fiscal year 2010 for all plans outside the United States. A one percent decrease in the estimated return on plan assets would increase our pre-tax pension expense by $2.4 million for fiscal year 2010 in the United States and by $0.9 million for fiscal year 2010 for all plans outside the United States. We have reduced the volatility in our healthcare costs provided to our retirees by adopting a defined dollar plan feature in fiscal year 2001. Under the defined dollar plan feature, our total annual liability for healthcare costs to any one retiree is limited to a fixed dollar amount, regardless of the nature or cost of the healthcare needs of that retiree. Our maximum future liability, therefore, cannot be increased by future changes in the cost of healthcare.  

Restructuring activities. Our consolidated financial statements detail specific charges relating to restructuring activities as well as the actual spending that has occurred against the resulting accruals. Our pre-tax restructuring charges are estimates based on our preliminary assessments of (i) severance benefits to be granted to employees, based on known benefit formulas and identified job grades, (ii) costs to abandon certain facilities based on known lease costs of sub-rental income and (iii) asset impairments as discussed above under “Value of long-lived assets, including intangibles.” Because these accruals are estimates, they are subject to change as a result of deviations from initial restructuring plans or subsequent information that may come to our attention. For example, actual severance costs may be less than anticipated if employees voluntarily leave prior to the time at which they would be entitled to severance, or if anticipated legal hurdles in foreign jurisdictions prove to be less onerous than expected. In addition, unanticipated successes or difficulties in terminating leases and other contractual obligations may lead to changes in estimates. When such changes in estimates occur, they are reflected in our consolidated financial statements on our consolidated statement of operations line entitled “restructuring and lease charges (reversals), net.”  

Gains or losses on dispositions. When we record the disposition of an asset or discontinuance of an operation, we make an estimate relative to the amount we expect to realize on the sale or disposition. This estimate is based on a variety of factors, including current interest in the market, alternative markets for the assets, and other relevant factors. If anticipated proceeds are less than the current carrying amount of the asset or operation, we record a loss. If anticipated proceeds are greater than the current carrying amount of the asset or operation, we recognize a gain net of expected contingencies when the transaction has been consummated. Accordingly, we may realize amounts different than were first estimated. During the fiscal year ended January 3, 2010, we did not recognize any gains or losses from disposition of fixed assets. We recorded $2.1 million in losses from the disposition of discontinued operations. Any such changes decrease or increase current earnings, and are recorded either against the “gains on disposition” or “discontinued operations” line items appearing in our consolidated statement of operations.  

Income taxes. Our business operations are global in nature, and we are subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Tax laws and tax rates vary substantially in these jurisdictions, and are subject to change given the political and economic climate in those countries. We report and pay income tax based on operational results and applicable law. Our tax provision contemplates tax rates currently in effect to determine both our current and  

60  

Table of Contents 

 deferred tax provisions. Any significant fluctuation in rates or changes in tax laws could cause our estimates of taxes we anticipate either paying or recovering in the future to change. Such changes could lead to either increases or decreases in our effective tax rate.  

Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related tax assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of our business, there are operational decisions, transactions, facts and circumstances, and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is not certain. Furthermore, our tax positions are periodically subject to challenge by taxing authorities throughout the world. Every quarter we review our tax positions in each significant taxing jurisdiction in the process of evaluating our unrecognized tax benefits. Adjustments are made to our unrecognized tax benefits when: (i) facts and circumstances regarding a tax position change, causing a change in our judgment regarding that tax position; (ii) a tax position is effectively settled with a tax authority; and/or (iii) the statute of limitations expires regarding a tax position. Any significant impact as a result of changes in underlying facts, law, tax rates, tax audit, or review could lead to adjustments to our income tax expense, our effective tax rate, or our cash flow.  

Additionally, we have established valuation allowances against a variety of deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, foreign tax credits, other income tax credits and certain pension accruals. Valuation allowances take into consideration our ability to use these deferred tax assets and reduce the value of such items to the amount that is deemed more likely than not to be recoverable. Improvements or other changes in our operations, domestically and internationally, could increase our ability to utilize these tax attributes in the future. The release of valuation allowances in periods when these tax attributes become realizable would reduce our effective tax rate.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk