PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.  

Overview  

United Continental Holdings, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “UAL”) is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries are United Air Lines, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “United”) and Continental Airlines, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “Continental”). This combined Annual Report on Form 10-K is separately filed by each of United Continental Holdings, Inc., United Air Lines, Inc. and Continental Airlines, Inc. Each registrant hereto is filing on its own behalf all of the information contained in this report that relates to such registrant. Each registrant hereto is not filing any information that does not relate to such registrant, and therefore makes no representation as to any such information.  

This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report of UAL, United and Continental. We sometimes use the words “we,” “our,” “us,” and the “Company” in this Form 10-K for disclosures that relate to all of UAL, United and Continental. As UAL consolidated United and Continental beginning October 1, 2010 for financial statement purposes, disclosures that relate to United or Continental activities also apply to UAL, unless otherwise noted. When appropriate, UAL, United and Continental are named specifically for their related activities and disclosures. This report uses “Continental Successor” to refer to Continental subsequent to the Merger (defined below) and “Continental Predecessor” to refer to Continental prior to the Merger.  

UAL was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968. Our world headquarters is located at 233 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60606 (telephone number (312) 997-8000).  

The Company’s website is www.unitedcontinentalholdings.com. The information contained on or connected to the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Through this website, the Company’s filings with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are accessible without charge as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Such filings are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.  

Merger Integration  

On May 2, 2010, UAL Corporation, Continental, and JT Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger providing for a “merger of equals” business combination. On October 1, 2010, JT Merger Sub Inc. merged with and into Continental, with Continental surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of UAL Corporation (the “Merger”). Upon closing of the Merger, UAL Corporation became the parent company of both United and Continental and UAL Corporation’s name was changed to United Continental Holdings, Inc. UAL’s consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of Continental and its subsidiaries for the period subsequent to October 1, 2010.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Integration-related 2012 accomplishments include:  

   •    The Company made significant progress in integrating its products, services, policies and a number of information technology systems. Following the conversion of its passenger service system in March 2012, the Company now has a single loyalty program, MileagePlus, and a single website, united.com. Continental’s OnePass loyalty program formally ended in the first quarter of 2012, at which point United automatically enrolled OnePass members in the MileagePlus program and deposited into those MileagePlus accounts award miles equal to OnePass members’ award miles balance. As a result of the conversion to a single passenger service system, the Company now operates using a single reservations system, carrier code, flight schedule, website and departure control system;  

   •    The Company continued to redeploy aircraft across its global network, better matching aircraft and demand on a route by route basis; and  

   •    The United and Continental pilots represented by the Air Line Pilots Association, International (“ALPA”) ratified a new joint collective bargaining agreement with the Company.  

Some key initiatives for the Company in 2013 include maintaining reliable operational performance, investing in customer service training and tools for its frontline co-workers, completing the installation of flat-bed seats in the premium cabins of its international widebody aircraft, installing global satellite based WiFi on approximately 300 of its mainline aircraft, and reaching competitive joint collective bargaining agreements with its union-represented employee groups. 

See Notes 1 and 21 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this report and Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information on the Merger.  

Operations  

Network. The Company transports people and cargo through its mainline operations, which use jet aircraft with at least 110 seats, and its regional operations. See Item 2, Properties, for a description of the Company’s mainline and regional aircraft.  

With key global air rights in the U.S., Asia-Pacific, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Latin America, UAL has the world’s most comprehensive global route network. UAL, through United and Continental and their regional carriers, operates more than 5,500 daily flights to more than 375 U.S. and international destinations from the Company’s hubs at Newark Liberty International Airport (“Newark Liberty”), Chicago O’Hare International Airport (“Chicago O’Hare”), Denver International Airport (“Denver”), George Bush Intercontinental Airport (“Houston Bush”), Hopkins International Airport (“Cleveland Hopkins”), Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”), A.B. Won Pat International Airport (“Guam”), San Francisco International Airport (“SFO”) and Washington Dulles International Airport (“Washington Dulles”).  

All of the Company’s domestic hubs are located in large business and population centers, contributing to a large amount of “origin and destination” traffic. Our hub and spoke system allows us to transport passengers between a large number of destinations with substantially more frequent service than if each route were served directly. Our hub system also allows us to add service to a new destination from a large number of cities using only one or a limited number of aircraft. As discussed under Alliances below, United is a member of Star Alliance, the world’s largest airline network.  

Regional. The Company has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as United Express. These regional operations are an extension of the Company’s mainline network. This regional service complements our operations by carrying traffic that connects to our mainline service and allows flights to smaller cities that cannot be provided economically with mainline aircraft. Chautauqua Airlines, Republic Airlines (“Republic”), CommutAir Airlines, ExpressJet Airlines, GoJet Airlines, Mesa Airlines, Shuttle America, SkyWest Airlines (“SkyWest”) and Trans States Airlines (“Trans States”) are all regional carriers, which operate most of their capacity under capacity purchase agreements with United and/or  

4  

Table of Contents 

 Continental. Under these capacity purchase agreements, the Company pays the regional carriers contractually-agreed fees (carrier-controlled costs) for operating these flights plus a variable reimbursement (incentive payment for superior operational performance) based on agreed performance metrics. The fees for carrier-controlled costs are based on specific rates for various operating expenses of the regional carriers, such as crew expenses, maintenance and aircraft ownership, some of which are multiplied by specific operating statistics (e.g., block hours, departures) while others are fixed monthly amounts. Under these capacity purchase agreements, the Company is responsible for all fuel costs incurred as well as landing fees, facilities rent and other costs, which are passed through by the regional carrier to the Company without any markup. In return, the regional carriers operate this capacity exclusively for United and/or Continental, on schedules determined by the Company. The Company also determines pricing and revenue management, assumes the inventory and distribution risk for the available seats, and permits mileage accrual and redemption for regional flights through its MileagePlus program.  

While the regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements comprise more than 95% of all regional flights, the Company also has prorate agreements with Hyannis Air Service, Inc. (“Cape Air”), Silver Airways (“Silver”), SkyWest and Trans States. Under these commercial flying agreements, the Company and its regional carriers agree to divide revenue collected from each passenger according to a formula, while both the Company and its regional carriers are individually responsible for their own costs of operations. Unlike capacity purchase agreements, under a prorate agreement, the regional carrier retains the control and risk of scheduling, and in most cases, market selection, local seat pricing and inventory for its flights, although the Company and its regional carriers may coordinate schedules to maximize connections.  

Financial information on the Company’s operating revenues by geographic regions, as reported to the U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”), can be found in Note 10 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.  

Alliances. United and Continental have a number of bilateral and multilateral alliances with other airlines, which enhance travel options for customers by providing greater time of day coverage to common destinations, additional mileage accrual and redemption opportunities, and access to markets that United and Continental do not serve directly. These marketing alliances typically include one or more of the following features: loyalty program reciprocity; codesharing of flight operations (whereby seats on one carrier’s selected flights can be marketed under the brand name of another carrier); coordination of reservations, ticketing, passenger check-in, baggage handling and flight schedules, and other resource-sharing activities.  

United is a member of Star Alliance, a global integrated airline network co-founded by United in 1997 and the largest and most comprehensive airline alliance in the world. As of January 1, 2013, Star Alliance carriers served 1,329 airports in 194 countries with over 21,900 daily flights. Current Star Alliance members, in addition to United, are Adria Airways, Aegean Airlines, Air Canada, Air China, Air New Zealand, All Nippon Airways, Asiana Airlines, Austrian Airlines, Avianca/Taca Airlines, Brussels Airlines, Copa Airlines, Croatia Airlines, EGYPTAIR, Ethiopian Airlines, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, SAS Scandinavian Airlines, Shenzhen Airlines, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, SWISS, TAM Airlines, TAP Portugal, THAI Airways International, Turkish Airlines and US Airways. Star Alliance has announced that EVA Air will be a future Star Alliance member. On February 14, 2013, US Airways announced an agreement to merge with AMR Corporation and its intent to exit Star Alliance as a result of such merger.  

United, Continental, Air Canada and the Lufthansa Group (which includes Lufthansa and its affiliates Austrian Airlines, Brussels Airlines and SWISS) participate in a joint venture agreement covering trans-Atlantic routes. The joint venture, which enables the carriers to integrate the services they operate between the United States and Europe and to capture revenue synergies, delivers highly competitive flight schedules, fares and services. The joint venture has a revenue-sharing structure that will result in payments among participants based on a formula that compares current period unit revenue performance on trans-Atlantic routes to a historic period, or “baseline,” which is reset annually. The payments are calculated on a quarterly basis and are subject to a cap. See Industry Regulation below. The European Commission, which has been conducting a standard review of the competitive effects of the joint venture, has not yet completed its review.  

5  

Table of Contents 

United, Continental and All Nippon Airways participate in a joint venture agreement covering certain trans-Pacific routes between the United States and Japan, and other destinations in Asia. The joint venture, which enables the carriers to integrate the services they operate between the United States and Asia and to capture revenue synergies, delivers highly competitive flight schedules, fares and services. The joint venture has a revenue-sharing structure that results in payments among participants based on a formula that compares current period unit revenue performance on certain trans-Pacific routes to a historic period, or “baseline”. The payments will be calculated on a quarterly basis and are subject to an annual cap.  

In 2010, United, Continental and Air Canada entered into a memorandum of understanding to establish a revenue sharing trans-border joint venture. The parties subsequently drafted a joint venture agreement based on the trans-Atlantic joint venture agreement among United, Continental, Air Canada and the Lufthansa Group. On October 24, 2012, United, Continental and Air Canada reached a Consent Agreement with the Canadian Competition Bureau settling litigation related to the proposed joint venture which will allow its implementation and full coordination among the parties, with certain exceptions on a limited number of non-stop routes. United, Continental and Air Canada already have U.S. antitrust immunity. A definitive joint venture agreement has not yet been finalized.  

United and Continental currently maintain independent marketing agreements with other air carriers including Aeromar, Aer Lingus, Cape Air, EVA Air, Great Lakes Airlines, Silver, Hawaiian Airlines, Island Air, and Jet Airways. In addition, United offers a train-to-plane alliance with Amtrak from Newark Liberty to select regional destinations.  

Loyalty Program. United’s MileagePlus program builds customer loyalty by offering awards and services to program participants. Members in this program earn mileage credit for flights on United, Continental, United Express, airlines in Star Alliance and certain other airlines that participate in the program. Members can also earn miles by purchasing the goods and services of our network of non-airline partners, such as credit card issuers, retail merchants, hotels and car rental companies. Members can redeem mileage credits for free, discounted or upgraded travel and non-travel awards.  

Under the Company’s Consolidated Amended and Restated Co-Branded Card Marketing Services Agreement dated June 9, 2011 (the “Co-Brand Agreement”) with Chase Bank USA, N.A. (“Chase”), loyalty program members accrue frequent flyer miles for making purchases using co-branded credit cards issued by Chase. The Co-Brand Agreement provides for joint marketing of the Company’s credit card program and provides Chase with other benefits such as permission to market to the Company’s customer database.  

In 2012, 4.7 million MileagePlus travel awards were used on United and Continental. These awards represented 7.4% and 6.8% of United’s and Continental’s total revenue passenger miles in 2012, respectively.  

Total miles redeemed for travel on United and Continental in 2012, including class-of-service upgrades, represented 83% of the total miles redeemed. In addition, excluding miles redeemed for travel on United and Continental, MileagePlus members redeemed miles for approximately 1.6 million awards in 2012 as compared to 1.8 million in 2011. These non-United and non-Continental travel awards include United Club memberships, car and hotel awards, merchandise and travel on another air carrier. The decrease in the number of non-United and non-Continental travel awards redeemed in 2012 compared to 2011 was due to a decrease in hotel, car and United Club redemptions.  

Fuel. Aircraft fuel has been the Company’s single largest and most volatile operating expense for the last several years. The table below summarizes UAL’s aircraft fuel consumption and expense during the last three years.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

6  

Table of Contents 

   (a) Calculation excludes special charges identified in Note 21 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this report.  

   (b) Excludes fuel consumption and cost for Continental Predecessor prior to October 1, 2010.  

The availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affect the Company’s operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. To provide adequate supplies of fuel, the Company routinely enters into short-term and long-term purchase contracts and has some ability to store fuel close to its major hub locations. To protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the Company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. The Company generally uses commonly used financial hedge instruments based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities including heating oil, diesel fuel and crude oil.  

Third-Party Business. United has third-party business revenue that includes fuel sales, catering, ground handling, maintenance services and frequent flyer award non-air redemptions, and third-party business revenue is recorded in other revenue. The Company has a contract to sell aircraft fuel to a third party which is earnings-neutral but results in revenue and expense, specifically cost of sale which is unrelated to the operation of the airline. United also incurs third-party business expenses, such as maintenance, ground handling and catering services for third parties, fuel sales and non-air mileage redemptions, and those third-party business expenses are recorded in other operating expenses.  

Distribution Channels. The majority of the Company’s airline seat inventory continues to be distributed through the traditional channels of travel agencies and global distribution systems (“GDS”). The growing use of the Company’s direct sales website, united.com, the Company’s mobile applications and alternative distribution systems, provides the Company with an opportunity to de-commoditize its services, better control its content, make more targeted offerings, better retain its customers, enhance its brand and lower its ticket distribution costs. To encourage customer use of lower-cost channels and capitalize on these cost-saving opportunities, the Company will continue to expand the capabilities of its website and mobile applications and explore alternative distribution channels.  

Industry Conditions  

Domestic Competition. The domestic airline industry is highly competitive and dynamic. Currently, any U.S. carrier deemed fit by the DOT is free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the United States. The Company’s competitors consist primarily of other airlines and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation. Competition can be direct, in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route, or indirect, where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport.  

Air carriers’ cost structures are not uniform and there are numerous factors influencing cost structure. Carriers with lower costs may deliver lower fares to passengers, which could have a potential negative impact on the Company’s revenues. In addition, future airline mergers, acquisitions or reorganizations pursuant to Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code may enable airlines to improve their revenue and cost performance relative to peers and thus enhance their competitive position within the industry.  

Decisions on domestic pricing are based on intense competitive pressure exerted on the Company by other U.S. airlines. In order to remain competitive and maintain passenger traffic levels, we often find it necessary to match competitors’ discounted fares. Since we compete in a dynamic marketplace, attempts to generate additional revenue through increased fares oftentimes fail.  

International Competition. Internationally, the Company competes not only with U.S. airlines, but also with foreign carriers. International competition has increased and may increase in the future as a result of airline mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances, restructurings, liberalization of aviation bilateral agreements and new or increased service by competitors. Competition on international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulation. The Company’s ability to compete successfully with non-U.S. carriers on international routes depends in part on its ability to generate traffic to and from the entire United States via its integrated domestic route network and its ability to overcome business and operational challenges across its network  

7  

Table of Contents 

 worldwide. Foreign carriers currently are prohibited by U.S. law from carrying local passengers between two points in the United States and the Company experiences comparable restrictions in foreign countries. In addition, in the absence of open skies and fifth freedom rights, U.S. carriers are constrained from carrying passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities due to limitations in air service agreements and restrictions imposed unilaterally by foreign governments. To compensate partially for these structural limitations, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into alliances, joint ventures and marketing arrangements that enable these carriers to exchange traffic between each other’s flights and route networks. See Alliances, above, for further information.  

Seasonality. The air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, demand for air travel is higher in the second and third quarters, driving higher revenues, than in the first and fourth quarters, which are periods of lower travel demand.  

Industry Regulation  

Domestic Regulation  

General. All carriers engaged in air transportation in the United States are subject to regulation by the DOT. Absent an exemption, no air carrier may provide air transportation of passengers or property without first being issued a DOT certificate of public convenience and necessity. The DOT also grants international route authority, approves international codeshare arrangements, and regulates methods of competition. The DOT regulates consumer protection and maintains jurisdiction over advertising, denied boarding compensation, tarmac delays, and baggage liability, and may add additional expensive regulatory burdens in the future.  

Airlines are also regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”), an agency within the DOT, primarily in the areas of flight safety, air carrier operations, and aircraft maintenance and airworthiness. The FAA issues air carrier operating certificates and aircraft airworthiness certificates, prescribes maintenance procedures, oversees airport operations, and regulates pilot and other employee training. From time to time, the FAA issues directives that require air carriers to inspect or modify aircraft and other equipment, potentially causing the Company to incur substantial, unplanned expenses. The airline industry is also subject to numerous other federal laws and regulations. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) has jurisdiction over virtually every aspect of civil aviation security. See Legislation, below. The Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has jurisdiction over certain airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail. Labor relations in the airline industry are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act (“RLA”), a federal statute. The Company is also subject to investigation inquiries by the DOT, FAA, DOJ and other U.S. and international regulatory bodies.  

Airport Access. Access to landing and take-off rights, or “slots,” at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by the Company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. Federally mandated domestic slot restrictions currently apply at Reagan National Airport in Washington D.C. (“Washington Reagan”), John F. Kennedy International Airport (“JFK”), LaGuardia Airport (“LaGuardia”) and Newark Liberty. In addition, to address concerns about airport congestion, the FAA has designated certain airports, including Newark Liberty, JFK, and LaGuardia as “high density traffic airports” and has imposed operating restrictions at these three airports, which may include capacity reductions. Additional restrictions on airline routes and takeoff and landing slots may be proposed in the future that could affect the Company’s rights of ownership and transfer.  

Legislation. The airline industry is subject to legislative activity that may have an impact on operations and costs. In addition to significant federal, state and local taxes and fees that the Company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending that may increase the Company’s operating costs if imposed on the Company. Congress may pass legislation that could increase labor and operating costs. Recently, Congress has enacted two laws, the Airline Safety and Federal Aviation Extension Act of 2010 and the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012, which have increased regulation and are likely to cause increased costs in the areas of  

8  

Table of Contents 

 airline safety, pilot training, and consumer protection. Climate change legislation is also likely to be a significant area of legislative and regulatory focus and could adversely impact the Company’s costs. See Environmental Regulation, below.  

In December 2009, the DOT issued the first of several rules intended to enhance airline passenger protections. The 2009 rule included regulations mandating that major air carriers, including United and Continental, adopt detailed contingency plans and implement procedures applicable to tarmac delays exceeding three hours for domestic flights and four hours for international flights, subject to exceptions for safety and security. In April 2011, the DOT issued a second set of consumer protection regulations. This second initiative imposed regulations requiring carriers to charge the same baggage fee throughout a passenger’s entire itinerary (even if on multiple carriers) and expanded the scope of the tarmac delay rule to cover foreign carriers operating to and from the United States. Although the DOT delayed the enforcement date for its new baggage fee regulations until July 2012, it is now in force and could expose United to DOT enforcement action and civil penalties.  

In December 2011, the FAA issued a final rule amending the existing flight, duty, and rest regulations applicable to U.S. air carriers operating under Part 121 of the Federal Aviation Regulations. The provisions under the 2011 final rule are likely to negatively impact the Company’s operations and increase the Company’s costs by mandating extensive changes to the way we schedule crews and deploy aircraft. Moreover, in December 2012, the FAA issued a draft policy statement proposing to cede authority over some areas of cabin crewmember workplace safety and health condition oversight to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. If this change in policy is finalized, it would expose the Company to increased regulatory requirements in the aircraft cabin, with the potential for increased costs and adverse operational impacts.  

Finally, aviation security continues to be the subject of frequent legislative and regulatory action, requiring changes to the Company’s security processes, frequently increasing the cost of its security procedures, and adversely affecting its operations.  

International Regulation  

General. International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. In connection with the Company’s international services, the Company is regulated by both the U.S. government and the governments of the foreign countries the Company serves. In addition, the availability of international routes to U.S. carriers is regulated by aviation agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments, and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments.  

Legislation. Foreign countries are increasingly enacting passenger protection laws, rules and regulations that meet or exceed U.S. requirements. In cases where this activity exceeds U.S. requirements, additional burden and liability may be placed on the Company. The European Union (“EU”) now requires compensation to passengers for canceled and delayed flights, in addition to denied boarding compensation. Similar foreign regulations require passenger compensation and subject the Company to enforcement penalties in addition to changes in operating procedures.  

Airport Access. Historically, access to foreign markets has been tightly controlled through bilateral agreements between the U.S. and each foreign country involved. These agreements regulate the markets served, the number of carriers allowed to serve each market and the frequency of carriers’ flights. Since the early 1990s, the U.S. has pursued a policy of “open skies” (meaning all U.S.-flag carriers have access to the destination), under which the U.S. government has negotiated a number of bilateral agreements allowing unrestricted access between U.S. and foreign markets. Currently, there are more than 100 open skies agreements in effect. However, many of the airports that the Company serves in Europe, Asia and Latin America maintain slot controls. A large number of these are restrictive due to congestion at these airports. London Heathrow International Airport, Frankfurt Rhein-Main Airport, Shanghai Pudong International Airport, Beijing Capital International Airport, Sao Paulo Guarhulos International Airport, Tokyo Narita International Airport and Haneda International Airport are among the most restrictive foreign airports due to capacity limitations. As an example, under the 2010 United States-Japan open skies agreement, only four slot pairs are available in Haneda to U.S. air carriers at this time, none of which is held by the Company.  

9  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s ability to serve some foreign markets and expand into certain others is limited by the absence of aviation agreements between the U.S. government and the relevant foreign governments. Shifts in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies may lead to the alteration or termination of air service agreements. Depending on the nature of any such change, the value of the Company’s international route authorities and slot rights may be materially enhanced or diminished.  

Environmental Regulation  

General. The airline industry is subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, aircraft noise, and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. Areas of either proposed regulations or implementation of new regulations include regulations surrounding the emission of greenhouse gases (discussed further below), State of California regulations regarding air emissions from ground support equipment, and a federal rule-making seeking to regulate airport fuel hydrant systems under the underground storage tank regulations.  

Climate Change. There are certain laws and regulations relating to climate change that apply to the Company, including the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (“EU ETS”) (which is subject to international dispute), environmental taxes for certain international flights (including the United Kingdom’s Air Passenger Duty and Germany’s departure ticket tax), limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements, and the State of California’s cap and trade regulations (which impacts United’s San Francisco maintenance center). In addition, there are land-based planning laws that could apply to airport expansion projects, requiring a review of greenhouse gas emissions, and could affect airlines in certain circumstances.  

In 2009, the EU issued a directive to member states to include aviation in its greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme. The application of the EU ETS to aviation, including the requirement for foreign airlines to surrender carbon allowances for emissions occurring outside of the EU airspace, has been the subject of significant international dispute among countries, with more than forty non-EU countries having gone on record opposing the scheme.  

On November 12, 2012, the EU announced a one-year stay of the requirements for international flights to the EU, which the EU attributed to recent progress by the International Civil Aviation Organization (“ICAO”) towards a global regulatory program to regulate aviation greenhouse gas emissions. On November 27, 2012, the President of the United States signed the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme Prohibition Act of 2011, which encourages the DOT to seek an international solution through the ICAO, and if necessary, prohibit U.S. airlines from participation in the EU ETS and take other actions to hold the airlines harmless from the scheme.  

The future of the EU ETS legislation as applied to international flights into Europe is uncertain but the Company will continue to monitor developments. The precise cost to the Company should the scheme apply to international flights in the future is difficult to calculate due to a number of variables, including the Company’s future carbon emissions with respect to flights to and from the EU, the price of carbon credits, and whether the DOT will take action to prohibit U.S. airlines from participation in the scheme and hold U.S. airlines harmless from such scheme.  

The EU ETS stay has increased international attention in its focus on the ICAO process with the intent to reach an international agreement that would apply to international aviation and prohibit the application of regional schemes. Without an international agreement, there could be other regulatory actions taken in the future by the U.S. government, state governments within the U.S., or foreign governments, to regulate the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry, which could result in multiple schemes applying to the same emissions. The precise nature of any such requirements and their applicability to the Company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the Company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant, including the potential for increased fuel costs, carbon taxes or fees, or a requirement to purchase carbon credits.  

10  

Table of Contents 

The Company is taking various actions to reduce its carbon emissions through fleet renewal, aircraft retrofits, and actions that are establishing the foundation for the commercialization of aviation biofuels.  

Other Environmental Matters. Some U.S. and foreign airports have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number and scheduling of hourly or daily operations. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in services or increased operating costs, and could limit our ability to expand our operations at the affected airports. 

The airline industry is also subject to other environmental laws and regulations that require the Company to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives and which may require significant expenditures. Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as “Superfund,” and similar environmental cleanup laws, generators of waste materials and owners or operators of facilities can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. The Company also conducts voluntary environmental assessment and remediation actions. Environmental cleanup obligations can arise from, among other circumstances, the operation of aircraft fueling facilities and primarily involve airport sites. Future costs associated with these activities are currently not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2012, UAL, including its subsidiaries, had approximately 88,000 employees. As of December 31, 2012, United had approximately 47,000 employees and Continental had approximately 41,000 employees. Approximately 80% of the combined Company’s employees were represented by various U.S. labor organizations as of December 31, 2012.  

Collective bargaining agreements between the Company and its represented employee groups are negotiated under the RLA, which governs labor relations in the air transportation industry. Such agreements typically do not contain an expiration date and instead specify an amendable date, upon which the contract is considered “open for amendment.” The process for integrating the represented employee groups of United and Continental is governed by a combination of the RLA, the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of United’s and Continental’s collective bargaining agreements and union policies. Under the RLA, the National Mediation Board (“NMB”) has exclusive authority to resolve union representation disputes arising out of airline mergers. Under the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, “fair and equitable” integration of seniority lists is required, including arbitration where the interested parties cannot reach a consensual agreement, consistent with the process set forth in the Allegheny-Mohawk Labor Protective Provisions or internal union merger policies, if applicable. Pending operational integration, the Company will apply the terms of the existing collective bargaining agreements unless other terms have been negotiated.  

During 2012, various labor agreements were reached between union representatives and the Company. On December 15, 2012, the pilots for both United and Continental ratified a joint collective bargaining agreement with the Company. In February 2013, the Company reached tentative agreements on new joint collective bargaining agreements with the International Association of Machinists (“IAM”) for the fleet service, passenger service and storekeeper workgroups at the United, Continental, Continental Micronesia and Mileage Plus subsidiaries. The tentative agreements with the IAM cover more than 28,000 employees and are subject to ratification by the IAM members. We are also currently in the process of negotiating joint collective bargaining agreements with all of our other major represented groups. Several other collective bargaining agreements were reached with unions at each of our subsidiaries during 2012, including with the United flight attendants in February 2012, the Continental Micronesia aircraft technicians in May 2012, the Continental pilot ground instructors in June 2012 and the Continental Micronesia flight attendants in August 2012.  

11  

Table of Contents 

The following table reflects the Company’s represented employee groups, number of employees per represented group, union representation for each of United’s and Continental’s employee groups where applicable, amendable date for each employee group’s collective bargaining agreement and whether the group is engaged in negotiations for a joint collective bargaining agreement:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

12  

Table of Contents 

The Company cannot predict the outcome of negotiations with its unionized employee groups, although significant increases in the pay and benefits resulting from new collective bargaining agreements would have an adverse financial impact on the Company. 

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.