ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Interest Rates. Our net income (loss) is affected by fluctuations in interest rates (e.g. interest expense on variable-rate debt and interest income earned on short-term investments). The Company’s policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt. The following table summarizes information related to the Company’s interest rate market risk at December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

A change in market interest rates would also impact interest income earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Assuming our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments remain at their average 2012 levels, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a corresponding increase in UAL, United and Continental interest income of approximately $74 million, $43 million and $31 million, respectively, during 2013.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Commodity Price Risk (Aircraft Fuel). The availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affects the Company’s operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity.  

To protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the Company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. The Company generally uses financial hedge instruments including fixed price swaps, purchased call options, and commonly used combinations using put and call options including collars (sold put option combined with purchased call option) and three-ways (sold put option combined with purchased call option and a higher strike sold call option). These hedge instruments are generally based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities including heating oil, diesel fuel and crude oil.  

Some financial hedge contracts may result in losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floor prices. However, the negative impact of these losses may be outweighed by the benefit of lower aircraft fuel cost since the Company typically hedges only a portion of its future fuel requirements. The Company does not enter into hedge instruments for trading purposes.  

If fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time we enter into a hedge contract, we may be required to post collateral (margin) with our hedge counterparties. The Company frequently monitors this margin risk and assesses the potential of posting collateral with each of its counterparties. At times, when the fair market value of the Company’s hedge contracts is net positive to the Company, it is exposed to the event of non-performance by the counterparty to the hedge contract. The Company periodically monitors the credit worthiness of its counterparties and limits its exposure to any single counterparty.  

The Company may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. The following table summarizes information related to the Company’s cost of fuel and hedging (in millions, except percentages):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) Includes related taxes and excludes hedging impacts and special charges. In 2011, UAL’s, United’s and Continental’s fuel cost was 37%, 37%, and 36% of total operating expenses, respectively.  

(b) Based on 2013 projected fuel consumption. Does not include the impact of fuel hedges.  

(c) As of December 31, 2011, the net fair value of UAL’s, United’s and Continental’s fuel hedges was $73 million, $44 million and $29 million, respectively.  

(d) Based on fuel hedge positions at December 31, 2012.  

(e) Assumes instantaneous change in prices and includes margin related to some hedge positions beyond December 31, 2013; approximately 2% for 2014.  

As of December 31, 2012, the Company had hedged approximately 31% and 2% of its projected fuel requirements (1.2 billion and 63 million gallons, respectively) for 2013 and 2014, respectively, with commonly used financial hedge instruments based on aircraft fuel or closely related commodities, such as heating oil, diesel fuel and crude oil.  

63  

Table of Contents 

The fuel hedge portfolio is comprised of many individual hedge contracts (primarily option contracts) on multiple underlying commodities and entered into at various points in time, resulting in a wide range of strike prices with several hedge counterparties. The table below provides a view of the economic impact of the hedge portfolio on the Company’s 2013 fuel costs given significant moves (up to +/-20%) in market fuel prices from December 31, 2012 (in millions).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a) Projected using equal shifts in spot and forward prices for aircraft fuel and all commodities (heating oil, diesel, crude oil) underlying hedge contracts from December 31, 2012 levels. 

  (b) Projections based on estimated consumption of four billion gallons and a price of $2.98 per gallon, excluding taxes and other delivery costs. 

  (c) Cash gain/(loss), including premiums, on existing hedges as of December 31, 2012. Includes all hedges whether or not the hedges are designated for hedge accounting.  

Foreign Currency. The Company generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Company’s results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. Some of the Company’s more significant foreign currency exposures include the Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, European euro and Japanese yen. At times, the Company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency. The Company does not enter into derivative instruments for non-risk management purposes.  

The result of a uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2012 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the Company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in pre-tax income of approximately $291 million for the year ending December 31, 2013. This sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2013 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of December 31, 2012.  

64  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA