ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.  

The following risk factors should be read carefully when evaluating the Company’s business and the forward-looking statements contained in this report and other statements the Company or its representatives make from time to time. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, operating results, financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this report.  

The Merger may present certain material risks to the Company’s business and operations.  

The Merger, described in Item 1, Business, may present certain risks to the Company’s business and operations including, among other things, risks that:  

   •    we may be unable to successfully integrate the businesses and workforces of United and Continental;  

   •    we may be unable to successfully manage the expanded business with respect to monitoring new operations and associated increased costs and complexity;  

   •    we may be unable to avoid potential liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the Merger and integration, including in connection with any legal merger of United Air Lines, Inc. and Continental Airlines, Inc. into a single corporation;  

   •    we may be unable to successfully manage the complex integration of systems, technology, aircraft fleets, networks and other assets of United and Continental in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on the Company and the Company’s customers, vendors, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and  

   •    we may experience disruption of, or inconsistencies in, each of United’s and Continental’s standards, controls, reports on operations, procedures, policies and services.  

Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Merger will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, innovation and operational efficiencies that we currently expect, that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated timeframe or that we will be able to fully and accurately measure any such synergies.  

Continued periods of historically high fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operating results, financial position and liquidity.  

Aircraft fuel has been the Company’s single largest and most volatile operating expense for the last several years. The availability and price of aircraft fuel significantly affect the Company’s operations, results of operations, financial position and liquidity. While the Company has been able to obtain adequate supplies of fuel under various supply contracts and also stores fuel close to major hub locations to ensure supply continuity in the short term, the Company cannot predict the continued future availability or price of aircraft fuel.  

Continued volatility in fuel prices may negatively impact the Company’s liquidity in the future. Aircraft fuel prices can fluctuate based on a multitude of factors including market expectations of supply and demand balance, inventory levels, geopolitical events, economic growth expectations, fiscal/monetary policies and financial investment flows. The Company may not be able to increase its fares or other fees if fuel prices rise in the future and any such fare or fee increases may not be sustainable in the highly competitive airline industry. In addition, any increases in fares or other fees may not sufficiently offset the full impact of such rises in fuel prices and may also reduce the general demand for air travel.  

To protect against increases in the prices of aircraft fuel, the Company routinely hedges a portion of its future fuel requirements. However, the Company’s hedging program may not be successful in controlling fuel costs, and price protection provided may be limited due to market conditions and other factors. To the extent that the Company uses hedge contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if prices decline significantly, including swaps or sold put options as  

13  

Table of Contents 

 part of a collar, such hedge contracts may limit the Company’s ability to benefit from lower fuel costs in the future. If fuel prices decline significantly from the levels existing at the time we enter into a hedge contract, we may be required to post collateral (margin) with our hedge counterparties beyond certain thresholds. Also, lower fuel prices may result in increased industry capacity and lower fares in general. There can be no assurance that the Company’s hedging arrangements will provide any particular level of protection against rises in fuel prices or that its counterparties will be able to perform under the Company’s hedging arrangements. Additionally, deterioration in the Company’s financial condition could negatively affect its ability to enter into new hedge contracts in the future and may potentially require the Company to post increased amounts of collateral under its fuel hedging agreements.  

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) and regulations promulgated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) introduce new requirements for centralized clearing for over-the-counter derivatives. This may include the Company’s fuel hedge contracts. The UAL Board of Directors has approved the Company’s election of the CFTC’s end-user exception, which permits the Company as a non-financial end user of derivatives to hedge commercial risk and be exempt from the CFTC mandatory clearing requirements. However, depending on the final regulations adopted by the CFTC and other regulators, several of the Company’s hedge counterparties may be subject to requirements which may raise their costs. Those increased costs may in turn be passed to the Company, resulting in increased transaction costs to execute hedge contracts and lower credit thresholds to post collateral (margin).  

See Note 13 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this report for additional information on the Company’s hedging programs.  

Economic and industry conditions constantly change and unfavorable global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.  

The Company’s business and results of operations are significantly impacted by general economic and industry conditions. The airline industry is highly cyclical, and the level of demand for air travel is correlated to the strength of the U.S. and global economies. Robust demand for our air transportation services depends largely on favorable economic conditions, including the strength of the domestic and foreign economies, low unemployment levels, strong consumer confidence levels and the availability of consumer and business credit.  

Air transportation is often a discretionary purchase that leisure travelers may limit or eliminate during difficult economic times. In addition, during periods of unfavorable economic conditions, business travelers usually reduce the volume of their travel, either due to cost-saving initiatives or as a result of decreased business activity requiring travel. During such periods, the Company’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected due to significant declines in industry passenger demand, particularly with respect to the Company’s business and premium cabin travelers, and a reduction in fare levels.  

Stagnant or worsening global economic conditions either in the United States or in other geographic regions, and any future volatility in U.S. and global financial and credit markets may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, results of operations and liquidity. If such economic conditions were to disrupt capital markets in the future, the Company may be unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms (or at all) to refinance certain maturing debt and to satisfy future capital commitments.  

The Company is subject to economic and political instability and other risks of doing business globally.  

The Company is a global business with operations outside of the United States from which it derives approximately 40% of its operating revenues, as measured and reported to the DOT. The Company’s operations in Asia, Europe, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East are a vital part of its worldwide airline network. Volatile economic, political and market conditions in these international regions may have a negative impact on the Company’s operating results and its ability to achieve its business objectives. In addition, significant or volatile changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, and the imposition of exchange controls or other currency restrictions, may have a material adverse impact upon the Company’s liquidity, revenues, costs and operating results.  

14  

Table of Contents 

The Company may not be able to maintain adequate liquidity.  

The Company has a significant amount of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other facilities, and other material cash obligations. In addition, the Company has substantial non-cancelable commitments for capital expenditures, including the acquisition of new aircraft and related spare engines.  

Although the Company’s cash flows from operations and its available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet these obligations and commitments to date, the Company’s future liquidity could be negatively impacted by the risk factors discussed in this Item 1A, including, but not limited to, substantial volatility in the price of fuel, adverse economic conditions, disruptions in the global capital markets and catastrophic external events.  

If the Company’s liquidity is constrained due to the various risk factors noted in this Item 1A or otherwise, the Company’s failure to comply with certain financial covenants under its financing and credit card processing agreements, timely pay its debts, or comply with other material provisions of its contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of the Company’s indebtedness, increase of required reserves under credit card processing agreements, the withholding of credit card sale proceeds by its credit card service providers and the exercise of other remedies by its creditors and equipment lessors that could result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Furthermore, constrained liquidity may limit the Company’s ability to withstand competitive pressures and limit its flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and demand for new services, placing the Company at a disadvantage when compared to its competitors that have less debt, and making the Company more vulnerable than its competitors who have less debt to a downturn in the business, industry or the economy in general.  

The Company’s substantial level of indebtedness and non-investment grade credit rating, as well as market conditions and the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, may make it difficult for the Company to raise additional capital to meet its liquidity needs on acceptable terms, or at all.  

See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further information regarding the Company’s liquidity.  

Certain of the Company’s financing agreements have covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on the Company and its subsidiaries.  

Certain of the Company’s credit facilities and indentures governing its secured notes impose certain operating and financial covenants on the Company, on United and its subsidiaries, or on Continental and its subsidiaries. Such covenants require the Company, United or Continental, as applicable, to maintain, depending on the particular agreement, minimum fixed charge coverage ratios, minimum liquidity and/or minimum collateral coverage ratios. A decline in the value of collateral could result in a situation where the Company, United or Continental, as applicable, may not be able to maintain the required collateral coverage ratio. In addition, the credit facilities and indentures contain other negative covenants customary for such financings.  

The Company’s ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond its control, including the overall industry revenue environment and the level of fuel costs, and the Company may be required to seek waivers or amendments of covenants, repay all or a portion of the debt or find alternative sources of financing. The Company cannot provide assurance that such waivers, amendments or alternative financing could be obtained or, if obtained, would be on terms acceptable to the Company. If the Company fails to comply with these covenants and is unable to obtain a waiver or amendment, an event of default would result which would allow the lenders, among other things, to declare outstanding amounts due and payable. The Company cannot provide assurance that it would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance such amounts if they were to become due. In addition, an event of default or declaration of acceleration under any of the credit facilities or indentures could also result in an event of default under certain of the Company’s other financing agreements due to cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Extensive government regulation could increase the Company’s operating costs and restrict its ability to conduct its business.  

Airlines are subject to extensive regulatory and legal oversight. Compliance with U.S. and international regulations imposes significant costs and may have adverse effects on the Company. Laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges, both domestically and internationally, have been proposed from time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations or reduce airline revenue. The Company cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations, or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect its financial condition or results of operations.  

Each of United and Continental provides air transportation under certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT. If the DOT altered, amended, modified, suspended or revoked these certificates, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The DOT is also responsible for promulgating consumer protection and other regulations that may impose significant compliance costs on the Company. The FAA regulates the safety of United’s and Continental’s operations. United and Continental are operators pursuant to a single air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA. From time to time, the FAA also issues orders, airworthiness directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require material expenditures or operational restrictions by the Company. These FAA orders and directives could include the temporary grounding of an entire aircraft type if the FAA identifies design, manufacturing, maintenance or other issues requiring immediate corrective action. For example, on January 11, 2013, the FAA announced a review of the Boeing 787 aircraft’s critical systems and in-service issues and, on January 16, 2013, the FAA issued an emergency airworthiness directive that requires U.S. Boeing 787 operators, including the Company, to temporarily cease operations of such aircraft. If the directive were to continue for an extended period of time, it could adversely affect the Company’s business and results of operations. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement of older aircraft, security measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement and other environmental concerns, aircraft operation and safety and increased inspections and maintenance procedures to be conducted on older aircraft. These FAA directives or requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  

In addition, the Company’s operations may be adversely impacted due to the existing antiquated air traffic control (“ATC”) system utilized by the U.S. government. During peak travel periods in certain markets, the current ATC system’s inability to handle existing travel demand has led to short-term capacity constraints imposed by government agencies and resulted in delays and disruptions of air traffic. In addition, the current system will not be able to effectively handle projected future air traffic growth. Imposition of these ATC constraints on a long-term basis may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to update the ATC system in a timely manner, and the substantial funding requirements of a modernized ATC system that may be imposed on air carriers may have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.  

The airline industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local taxes and fees that increase the cost of the Company’s operations. In addition to taxes and fees that the Company is currently subject to, proposed taxes and fees are currently pending and if imposed, would increase the Company’s operating expenses.  

Access to landing and take-off rights, or “slots,” at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by the Company are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation. Certain of the Company’s major hubs are among increasingly congested airports in the United States and have been or could be the subject of regulatory action that might limit the number of flights and/or increase costs of operations at certain times or throughout the day. The FAA may limit the Company’s airport access by limiting the number of departure and arrival slots at high density traffic airports, which could affect the Company’s ownership and transfer rights, and local airport authorities may have the ability to control access to certain facilities or the cost of access to its facilities, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The FAA historically has taken actions with respect to airlines’ slot holdings that airlines have challenged; if the FAA were to take actions to adversely affect the Company’s slot holdings, the Company could incur substantial costs to preserve its slots. Further, the Company’s operating costs at airports at which it operates, including the Company’s major hubs, may increase  

16  

Table of Contents 

 significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that the Company may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. In some circumstances, such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without the Company’s approval and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition.  

The ability of carriers to operate flights on international routes between airports in the U.S. and other countries may be subject to change. Applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, government policies with respect to airport operations may be revised, and the availability of appropriate slots or facilities may change. The Company currently operates a number of flights on international routes under government arrangements, regulations or policies that designate the number of carriers permitted to operate on such routes, the capacity of the carriers providing services on such routes, the airports at which carriers may operate international flights, or the number of carriers allowed access to particular airports. Any further limitations, additions or modifications to such arrangements, regulations or policies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. Additionally, if an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of the Company’s international routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position and results of operations and could result in the impairment of material amounts of related tangible and intangible assets. In addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of the Company’s business and assets on the open skies routes. The Company’s plans to enter into or expand U.S. antitrust immunized alliances and joint ventures on various international routes are subject to receipt of approvals from applicable U.S. federal authorities and obtaining other applicable foreign government clearances or satisfying the necessary applicable regulatory requirements. There can be no assurance that such approvals and clearances will be granted or will continue in effect upon further regulatory review or that changes in regulatory requirements or standards can be satisfied.  

Many aspects of the Company’s operations are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and international laws protecting the environment. Future environmental regulatory developments, such as climate change regulations in the United States and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline industry. There are certain climate change laws and regulations that have already gone into effect and that apply to the Company, including the EU ETS (which is subject to international dispute), the State of California’s cap and trade regulations, environmental taxes for certain international flights, limited greenhouse gas reporting requirements and land-use planning laws which could apply to airports and could affect airlines in certain circumstances. In addition, there is the potential for additional regulatory actions in regard to the emission of greenhouse gases by the aviation industry. The precise nature of future requirements and their applicability to the Company are difficult to predict, but the financial impact to the Company and the aviation industry would likely be adverse and could be significant.  

See Item 1, Business - Industry Regulation above, for further information on government regulation impacting the Company.  

The Company relies heavily on technology and automated systems to operate its business and any significant failure or disruption of the technology or these systems could materially harm its business.  

The Company depends on automated systems and technology to operate its business, including computerized airline reservation systems, flight operations systems, telecommunication systems and commercial websites, including www.united.com. United’s website and other automated systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver important flight and schedule information, as well as process critical financial transactions. These systems could suffer substantial or repeated disruptions due to events including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment or software failures, computer viruses or cyber security attacks. Substantial or repeated website, reservation systems or telecommunication systems failures or disruptions, including failures or disruptions related to the Company’s integration of technology systems, could reduce the attractiveness of the Company’s services versus those of its competitors, materially impair its ability to market its services and operate its flights, result in the unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and result in increased costs, lost revenue and the loss or compromise of important data.  

17  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s business relies extensively on third-party service providers. Failure of these parties to perform as expected, or interruptions in the Company’s relationships with these providers or their provision of services to the Company, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.  

The Company has engaged an increasing number of third-party service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral to its business, including regional operations, operation of customer service call centers, distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology infrastructure and services, provision of aircraft maintenance and repairs, provision of various utilities and performance of aircraft fueling operations, among other vital functions and services. The Company does not directly control these third-party service providers, although it does enter into agreements with many of them that define expected service performance. Any of these third-party service providers, however, may materially fail to meet their service performance commitments to the Company or agreements with such providers may be terminated. For example, flight reservations booked by customers and/or travel agencies via third-party GDSs may be adversely affected by disruptions in the business relationships between the Company and GDS operators. Such disruptions, including a failure to agree upon acceptable contract terms when contracts expire or otherwise become subject to renegotiation, may cause the carriers’ flight information to be limited or unavailable for display, significantly increase fees for both the Company and GDS users, and impair the Company’s relationships with its customers and travel agencies. The failure of any of the Company’s third-party service providers to adequately perform their service obligations, or other interruptions of services, may reduce the Company’s revenues and increase its expenses or prevent the Company from operating its flights and providing other services to its customers. In addition, the Company’s business and financial performance could be materially harmed if its customers believe that its services are unreliable or unsatisfactory.  

UAL’s obligations for funding Continental’s defined benefit pension plans are affected by factors beyond UAL’s control. 

Continental has defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its U.S. employees, other than the employees of its Chelsea Food Services division and Continental Micronesia, Inc. The timing and amount of UAL’s funding requirements under Continental’s plans depend upon a number of factors, including labor negotiations with the applicable employee groups and changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors outside of UAL’s control, such as the number of applicable retiring employees, asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase UAL’s funding requirements, such as its liquidity requirements, could have a material adverse effect on UAL’s financial condition.  

Union disputes, employee strikes or slowdowns, and other labor-related disruptions, as well as the integration of the United and Continental workforces in connection with the Merger, present the potential for a delay in achieving expected Merger synergies, could adversely affect the Company’s operations, and could result in increased costs that impair its financial performance.  

United and Continental are both highly unionized companies. As of December 31, 2012, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 88,000 active employees, of whom approximately 80% were represented by various U.S. labor organizations.  

The successful integration of United and Continental and achievement of the anticipated benefits of the combined company depend in part on integrating United and Continental employee groups and maintaining productive employee relations. In order to fully integrate the pre-Merger represented employee groups, the Company must negotiate a joint collective bargaining agreement covering each combined group. The process for integrating the labor groups of United and Continental is governed by a combination of the RLA, the McCaskill-Bond Amendment, and where applicable, the existing provisions of each company’s collective bargaining agreements and union policy. A delay in or failure to integrate the United and Continental employee groups presents the potential for delays in achieving expected Merger synergies, increased operating costs and labor disputes that could adversely affect our operations.  

During 2012, various labor agreements were reached between union representatives and the Company. On December 15, 2012, the pilots for both United and Continental ratified a joint collective bargaining agreement  

18  

Table of Contents 

 with the Company. In February 2013, the Company reached tentative agreements on new joint collective bargaining agreements with the IAM for the fleet service, passenger service and storekeeper workgroups at the United, Continental, Continental Micronesia and Mileage Plus subsidiaries. The tentative agreements with the IAM cover more than 28,000 employees and are subject to ratification by the IAM members. We are also currently in the process of negotiating joint collective bargaining agreements with all of our other major represented groups. Several other collective bargaining agreements were reached with unions at each of our subsidiaries during 2012, including with the United flight attendants in February 2012, the Continental Micronesia aircraft technicians in May 2012, the Continental pilot ground instructors in June 2012 and the Continental Micronesia flight attendants in August 2012.  

The Company can provide no assurance that a successful or timely resolution of labor negotiations for all amendable collective bargaining agreements will be achieved. There is a risk that unions or individual employees might pursue judicial or arbitral claims arising out of changes implemented as a result of the Merger. Employee dissatisfaction with the results of the seniority integration may lead to litigation that in some cases can delay implementation of the integrated seniority list. There is also a possibility that employees or unions could engage in job actions such as slow-downs, work-to-rule campaigns, sick-outs or other actions designed to disrupt United’s and Continental’s normal operations, in an attempt to pressure the companies in collective bargaining negotiations. Although the RLA makes such actions unlawful until the parties have been lawfully released to self-help, and United and Continental can seek injunctive relief against premature self-help, such actions can cause significant harm even if ultimately enjoined. In addition, achieving joint collective bargaining agreements, including the pilot agreement, with our represented employee groups is likely to increase our labor costs, which increase could be material.  

The airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to price discounting and changes in capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  

The U.S. airline industry is characterized by substantial price competition. In recent years, the market share held by low-cost carriers has increased significantly and is expected to continue to increase. The increased market presence of low-cost carriers, which engage in substantial price discounting, has diminished the ability of large network carriers to achieve sustained profitability on domestic and international routes.  

Airlines also compete for market share by increasing or decreasing their capacity, including route systems and the number of markets served. Several of the Company’s domestic and international competitors have increased their international capacity by including service to some destinations that the Company currently serves, causing overlap in destinations served and therefore increasing competition for those destinations. In addition, the Company and certain of its competitors have implemented significant capacity reductions in recent years in response to high and volatile fuel prices and stagnant global economic growth. Further, certain of the Company’s competitors may not reduce capacity or may increase capacity, impacting the expected benefit to the Company from capacity reductions. This increased competition in both domestic and international markets may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  

The airline industry may undergo further bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation, or the creation or modification of alliances or joint ventures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.  

The Company faces and may continue to face strong competition from other carriers due to bankruptcy restructuring, industry consolidation, and the creation and modification of alliances and joint ventures. A number of carriers have filed for bankruptcy protection in recent years and other domestic and international carriers could restructure in bankruptcy or threaten to do so in the future to reduce their costs. Most recently, AMR Corporation, the parent company of American Airlines, Inc., filed for bankruptcy protection in November 2011 and is currently under going a restructuring under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Carriers operating under bankruptcy protection can operate in a manner that could be adverse to the Company and could emerge from bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors.  

Both the U.S. and international airline industries have experienced consolidation through a number of mergers and acquisitions. On February 14, 2013, US Airways announced an agreement to merge with AMR Corporation  

19  

Table of Contents 

 and its intent to exit Star Alliance as a result of such merger. The Company is also facing stronger competition from expanded airline alliances and joint ventures. Carriers may improve their competitive positions through airline alliances, slot swaps, and/or joint ventures. Certain airline joint ventures further competition by allowing airlines to coordinate routes, pool revenues and costs, and enjoy other mutual benefits, achieving many of the benefits of consolidation. “Open skies” agreements, including the agreements between the United States and the European Union and between the United States and Japan, may also give rise to additional consolidation or better integration opportunities among international carriers.  

There is ongoing speculation that further airline consolidations or reorganizations could occur in the future. The Company routinely engages in analysis and discussions regarding its own strategic position, including alliances, asset acquisitions and divestitures and may have future discussions with other airlines regarding strategic activities. If other airlines participate in such activities, those airlines may significantly improve their cost structures or revenue generation capabilities, thereby potentially making them stronger competitors of the Company and potentially impairing the Company’s ability to realize expected benefits from its own strategic relationships.  

Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may materially and adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.  

Following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, the Company’s insurance costs increased significantly and the availability of third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance decreased significantly. The Company has obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special program administered by the FAA. Should the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if such coverage is available at all. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance, its business could be materially and adversely affected.  

If any of the Company’s aircraft were to be involved in an accident or if the Company’s property or operations were to be affected by a significant natural catastrophe or other event, the Company could be exposed to significant liability or loss. If the Company is unable to obtain sufficient insurance (including aviation hull and liability insurance and property and business interruption coverage) to cover such liabilities or losses, whether due to insurance market conditions or otherwise, its results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.  

The Company could experience adverse publicity, harm to its brand, reduced travel demand and potential tort liability as a result of an accident, catastrophe, or incident involving its aircraft, the aircraft of its regional carriers or the aircraft of its codeshare partners, which may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial position.  

An accident, catastrophe, or incident involving an aircraft that the Company operates, or an aircraft that is operated by a codeshare partner or one of the Company’s regional carriers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company if such accident, catastrophe, or incident created a public perception that the Company’s operations, or the operations of its codeshare partners or regional carriers, are not safe or reliable, or less safe or reliable than other airlines. Such public perception could in turn result in adverse publicity for the Company, cause harm to the Company’s brand and reduce travel demand on the Company’s flights, or the flights of its codeshare partners or regional carriers.  

In addition, any such accident, catastrophe, or incident could expose the Company to significant tort liability. Although the Company currently maintains liability insurance in amounts and of the type the Company believes to be consistent with industry practice to cover damages arising from any such accident or catastrophe, and the Company’s codeshare partners and regional carriers carry similar insurance and generally indemnify the Company for their operations, if the Company’s liability exceeds the applicable policy limits or the ability of another carrier to indemnify it, the Company could incur substantial losses from an accident, catastrophe or incident which may result in a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial position.  

20  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors associated with the airline industry.  

Due to greater demand for air travel during the spring and summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year are generally stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which are periods of lower travel demand. The Company’s results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal including, among others, the imposition of excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control congestion, geological events, natural disasters, changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, general economic conditions and other factors. As a result, the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.  

Terrorist attacks or international hostilities, or the fear of terrorist attacks or hostilities, even if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect the Company and the airline industry.  

The terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely impacted each of United’s and Continental’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the prospects for the airline industry. Among the effects experienced from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption costs caused by the FAA-imposed temporary grounding of the U.S. airline industry’s fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue.  

Additional terrorist attacks, even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could materially and adversely affect the Company and the airline industry. Wars and other international hostilities could also have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. The Company’s financial resources may not be sufficient to absorb the adverse effects of any future terrorist attacks or other international hostilities.  

An outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial position and results of operations.  

An outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat that affects travel demand or travel behavior, or travel restrictions or reduction in the demand for air travel caused by an outbreak of a disease or similar public health threat in the future, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

The Company may never realize the full value of its intangible assets or its long-lived assets causing it to record impairments that may negatively affect its financial position and results of operations.  

In accordance with applicable accounting standards, the Company is required to test its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis on October 1 of each year, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. In addition, the Company is required to test certain of its other assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred.  

The Company may be required to recognize impairments in the future due to, among other factors, extreme fuel price volatility, tight credit markets, a decline in the fair value of certain tangible or intangible assets, unfavorable trends in historical or forecasted results of operations and cash flows and an uncertain economic environment, as well as other uncertainties. The Company can provide no assurance that a material impairment charge of tangible or intangible assets will not occur in a future period. The value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. Such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by the Company or other carriers. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operations.  

21  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes may be significantly limited due to various circumstances, including certain possible future transactions involving the sale or issuance of UAL common stock, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels.  

As of December 31, 2012, UAL reported consolidated federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $10 billion.  

The Company’s ability to use its NOL carryforwards may be limited if it experiences an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 (“Section 382”) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. An ownership change generally occurs if certain stockholders increase their aggregate percentage ownership of a corporation’s stock by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest percentage ownership at any time during the testing period, which is generally the three-year period preceding any potential ownership change.  

There is no assurance that the Company will not experience a future ownership change under Section 382 that may significantly limit or possibly eliminate its ability to use its NOL carryforwards. Potential future transactions involving the sale or issuance of UAL common stock, including the exercise of conversion options under the terms of the Company’s convertible debt, repurchase of such debt with UAL common stock, issuance of UAL common stock for cash and the acquisition or disposition of such stock by a stockholder owning 5% or more of UAL common stock, or a combination of such transactions, may increase the possibility that the Company will experience a future ownership change under Section 382.  

Under Section 382, a future ownership change would subject the Company to additional annual limitations that apply to the amount of pre-ownership change NOLs that may be used to offset post-ownership change taxable income. This limitation is generally determined by multiplying the value of a corporation’s stock immediately before the ownership change by the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate. Any unused annual limitation may, subject to certain limits, be carried over to later years, and the limitation may under certain circumstances be increased by built-in gains in the assets held by such corporation at the time of the ownership change. This limitation could cause the Company’s U.S. federal income taxes to be greater, or to be paid earlier, than they otherwise would be, and could cause all or a portion of the Company’s NOL carryforwards to expire unused. Similar rules and limitations may apply for state income tax purposes. The Company’s ability to use its NOL carryforwards will also depend on the amount of taxable income it generates in future periods. Its NOL carryforwards may expire before the Company can generate sufficient taxable income to use them in full.  

UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation limits certain transfers of its stock which could have an effect on the market price of UAL common stock.  

To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on the Company’s ability to use its NOL carryforwards for federal income tax purposes, UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a 5% ownership limitation. This limitation generally remains effective until February 1, 2014, or until such later date as may be approved by the UAL Board of Directors (the “Board of Directors”) in its sole discretion. The limitation prohibits (i) an acquisition by a single stockholder of shares that results in that stockholder owning 5% or more of UAL common stock and (ii) any acquisition or disposition of common stock by a stockholder that already owns 5% or more of UAL common stock, unless prior written approval is granted by the Board of Directors.  

Any transfer of common stock in violation of these restrictions will be void and will be treated as if such transfer never occurred. This provision of UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation may impair or prevent a sale of common stock by a stockholder and adversely affect the price at which a stockholder can sell UAL common stock. In addition, this limitation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, creating a perception that a change in control cannot occur or otherwise discouraging takeover attempts that some stockholders may consider beneficial, which could also adversely affect the market price of the UAL common stock. The Company cannot predict the effect that this provision in UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation may have on the market price of the UAL common stock. For additional information regarding the 5% ownership limitation, please refer to UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation available on the Company’s website.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Certain provisions of UAL’s Governance Documents could discourage or delay changes of control or changes to the Board of Directors.  

Certain provisions of UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws (together, the “Governance Documents”) may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the Board of Directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of its stockholders may consider beneficial.  

Certain provisions of the Governance Documents may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if the Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of UAL and its stockholders. These provisions of the Governance Documents are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of UAL’s stockholders’ interests. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of UAL to negotiate with the Board of Directors, they could enable the Board of Directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of its stockholders might believe to be in their best interests or, they could prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.  

The issuance of additional shares of UAL’s capital stock, including the issuance of common stock upon conversion of convertible notes and upon a noteholder’s exercise of its option to require UAL to repurchase convertible notes, could cause dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders.  

UAL’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes up to one billion shares of common stock. In certain circumstances, UAL can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. In addition, the Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 250 million shares of preferred stock, without par value, without any action on the part of UAL’s stockholders. The Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of shares of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend rights, preferences over UAL’s common stock with respect to dividends or if UAL liquidates, dissolves or winds up its business and other terms. If UAL issues preferred stock in the future that has a preference over its common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon its liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if UAL issues preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of its common stock, the rights of holders of its common stock or the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected.  

The Company is also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, other securities convertible into either preferred stock or, in certain circumstances, common stock. As of December 31, 2012, UAL had $1 billion of convertible debt outstanding. Holders of these securities may convert them into shares of UAL common stock according to their terms. In addition, certain of UAL’s notes include noteholder early redemption options. If a noteholder exercises such option, UAL may elect to pay the repurchase price in cash, shares of its common stock or a combination thereof. See Note 14 to the financial statements included in Item 8 of this report for additional information related to these convertible notes. The number of shares issued could be significant and such an issuance could cause significant dilution to the interests of its existing stockholders. In addition, if UAL elects to pay the repurchase price in cash, its liquidity could be adversely affected.  

In the future, UAL may decide to raise additional capital through offerings of UAL common stock, securities convertible into UAL common stock, or exercise rights to acquire these securities or its common stock. The issuance of additional shares of common stock, including upon the conversion or repurchase of convertible debt, could result in significant dilution of existing stockholders’ equity interests in UAL. Issuances of substantial amounts of its common stock, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for UAL’s common stock and UAL cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of its common stock.  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.  

None.  

23  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES