ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY  

We are one of the world’s largest meat protein companies and the second-largest food production company in the Fortune 500 with one of the most recognized brand names in the food industry. We produce, distribute and market chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and related allied products. Our operations are conducted in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. Some of the key factors influencing our business are customer demand for our products; the ability to maintain and grow relationships with customers and introduce new and innovative products to the marketplace; accessibility of international markets; market prices for our products; the cost of live cattle and hogs, raw materials and grain; and operating efficiencies of our facilities.  

OVERVIEW  

   —    General – We had improved operating results in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009, as a result of improved internal performance and a better market environment. The following are a few of the key drivers:  

   —    We achieved margin management gains and operational efficiency improvements, which were the key drivers that led to the nearly $1.2 billion improvement in operating income, excluding the impact of the $560 million Beef segment goodwill impairment charge recorded in fiscal 2009. Margin management improvements occurred in the areas of mix, export sales, price optimization and value-added products initiatives. The operational efficiencies occurred in the areas of yields, cost reduction, labor management, logistics cost optimization, capacity and live bird operations (including livability, feed conversion, and net to processing improvements).  

   —    Tyson and the meat industry in general have benefitted from improving domestic market conditions. For the first time in 40 years, industry forecasters predict a reduction in available protein in two consecutive years for 2009/2010. This is a factor of reduced protein production, fewer imports, increased exports and reduced freezer inventories. Poor industry results for 2008 and 2009 led to a reduction in industry capacity and a better balance between overall meat products’ supply and demand. While the recent economic conditions have caused decreased demand at foodservice establishments, most of the lost demand has shifted to retailers as consumers are choosing to eat at home.  

   —    As a result of improving domestic market conditions and our own operational efficiency and margin management improvements, our operating margins were 5.5% in fiscal 2010 (5.4% after removing $38 million of insurance proceeds received during the year and $29 million related to the goodwill impairment). This is the first time since the acquisition of IBP, inc. in 2001 that annual operating margins have exceeded 5.0%. The following is a summary of operating margins by segment:  

   —    Chicken – 5.2% (or 5.1% excluding $38 million of insurance proceeds received and $29 million related to a goodwill impairment)  

   —    Beef – 4.6%  

   —    Pork – 8.4%  

   —    Prepared Foods – 4.1%  

   —    Debt and Liquidity – During fiscal 2010, we generated $1.4 billion of operating cash flows. We used these cash flows, as well as restricted cash, to repurchase, retire or redeem $956 million of senior notes. As a result, our total debt is $2.5 billion, the lowest level since the acquisition of IBP, inc. At October 2, 2010, we had $1.8 billion of liquidity, which includes the availability under our credit facility and $978 million of cash and cash equivalents.  

   —    Our accounting cycle resulted in a 52-week year for both fiscal 2010 and 2008 and a 53-week year for fiscal 2009.  

18  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 – Net income included the following items:  

   —    $61 million in charges related to losses on notes repurchased during fiscal 2010;  

   —    $29 million non-cash, non-tax deductible charge related to a full goodwill impairment in an immaterial Chicken segment reporting unit;  

   —    $12 million non-cash, non-tax deductible charge related to the impairment of an equity method investment; and  

   —    $38 million gain from insurance proceeds.  

2009 – Net loss included the following items:  

   —    $560 million non-cash, non-tax deductible charge related to a goodwill impairment in our Beef segment; and  

   —    $15 million charge related to the closing of our Ponca City, Oklahoma, processed meats plant.  

2008 – Net income included the following items:  

   —    $33 million of charges related to asset impairments, including packaging equipment, intangible assets, unimproved real property and software;  

   —    $17 million charge related to restructuring our Emporia, Kansas, beef operation;  

   —    $13 million charge related to closing our Wilkesboro, North Carolina, Cooked Products poultry plant;  

   —    $13 million of charges related to flood damage at our Jefferson, Wisconsin, plant and severance charges related to the FAST initiative; and  

   —    $18 million non-operating gain related to sale of an investment.  

FISCAL 2011 OUTLOOK  

In 2011, overall protein (chicken, beef, pork and turkey) production is expected to increase. Because exports are likely to grow as well, we forecast that total domestic availability of protein should be relatively flat compared to 2010. The following is a summary of the fiscal 2011 outlook for each of our segments, as well as an outlook on capital expenditures, net interest expense and debt:  

   —    Chicken – While we expect chicken production to increase, domestic availability will depend on export volumes. Because of the less than expected yields in global feed grain crop production, current futures prices indicate higher grain costs in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. We expect to offset the impact of increased grain costs with operational and pricing improvements.  

   —    Beef – We expect to see a gradual reduction in cattle supplies of 1-2% in fiscal 2011; however, we do not expect a significant change in the fundamentals of our Beef business as it relates to the previous few quarters. We expect adequate supplies in the regions we operate our plants. We expect beef exports to remain strong in fiscal 2011.  

   —    Pork – We expect hog supplies in fiscal 2011 will be comparable to fiscal 2010 and we believe we will have adequate supplies in the regions in which we operate. We expect pork exports to remain strong in fiscal 2011.  

   —    Prepared Foods – We expect operational improvements and increased pricing will more than offset the likely increase in raw material costs in fiscal 2011. While many of our sales contracts are formula based or shorter-term in nature, we are typically able to absorb rising input costs. However, there is a lag time for price increases to take effect, so it is more difficult to absorb rapidly rising raw material costs.  

   —    Capital Expenditures – Our preliminary capital expenditures plan for fiscal 2011 is approximately $700 million.  

   —    Net Interest Expense – We expect fiscal 2011 net interest expense will be approximately $245 million, down nearly $90 million compared to fiscal 2010.  

   —    Debt – We will continue to use our available cash to repurchase notes when available at attractive rates. We do not have any significant maturities of debt coming due over the next three fiscal years, as our 8.25% Notes due October 1, 2011 (2011 Notes) balance was $315 million at October 2, 2010. We plan to retire these notes with current cash on hand and/or cash flows from operations.  

19  

Table of Contents 

SUMMARY OF RESULTS – CONTINUING OPERATIONS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Average Sales Price – The increase in sales was largely due to an increase in average sales prices, which accounted for an increase of approximately $1.9 billion. While all segments had an increase in average sales prices, the majority of the increase was driven by the Beef and Pork segments.  

   —    Sales Volume – Sales were negatively impacted by a decrease in sales volume, which accounted for a decrease of approximately $150 million. This was primarily due to an extra week in fiscal 2009 and the decrease in Pork segment sales volume, partially offset by an increase from a fiscal 2009 acquisition in the Chicken segment.  

2009 vs. 2008 –  

   —    Average Sales Price – The decline in sales was largely due to a reduction in average sales prices, which accounted for a decrease of approximately $1.2 billion. While all segments had a reduction in average sales prices, the majority of the decrease was driven by the Beef and Pork segments.  

   —    Sales Volume – Sales were positively impacted by an increase in sales volume, which accounted for an increase of approximately $1.0 billion. This was primarily due to an extra week in fiscal 2009, increased sales volume in our Chicken segment, which was driven by inventory reductions, and sales volume related to recent acquisitions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Cost of sales increased $415 million. Higher cost per pound increased cost of sales by $558 million, partially offset by lower sales volume which decreased cost of sales by $143 million.  

   —    Increase in average live cattle and hog costs of approximately $1.0 billion.  

   —    Increase due to net losses of $78 million in fiscal 2010, as compared to net gains of $191 million in fiscal 2009, from our commodity risk management activities related to forward futures contracts for live cattle and hogs, and excludes the impact from related physical purchase transactions which impact current and future period operating results.  

   —    Increase in raw material costs of approximately $218 million in our Prepared Foods segment.  

   —    Increase in incentive-based compensation of approximately $97 million.  

   —    Decrease due to net losses of $6 million in fiscal 2010, as compared to net losses of $257 million in fiscal 2009, from our commodity risk management activities related to grain and energy purchases, and excludes the impact from related physical purchase transactions which impact current and future period operating results.  

   —    Decrease in grain costs in the Chicken segment of approximately $158 million.  

   —    Decrease in the Chicken segment costs resulting from operational improvements.  

2009 vs. 2008 –  

   —    Cost of sales decreased $115 million. Cost per pound contributed to a $1.1 billion decrease, offset partially by an increase in sales volume increasing cost of sales $987 million.  

   —    Increase due to net losses of $257 million in fiscal 2009, as compared to net gains of $206 million in fiscal 2008, from our commodity risk management activities related to grain and energy purchases, which exclude the effect from related physical purchase transactions which impact current and future period operating results.  

   —    Increase due to sales volumes, which included an extra week in fiscal 2009, as well as increased sales volume in our Chicken segment, which was driven by inventory reductions and sales volume related to recent acquisitions.  

   —    Decrease in average domestic live cattle and hog costs of approximately $1.2 billion.  

20  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Increase of $118 million related to incentive-based compensation.  

   —    Reductions include decreases resulting from one less week in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009, as well a $16 million reduction in professional fees, advertising and sales promotions.  

2009 vs. 2008 –  

   —    Decrease of $33 million related to advertising and sales promotions.  

   —    Decrease of $11 million related to the change in investment returns on company-owned life insurance, which is used to fund non-qualified retirement plans.  

   —    Other reductions include decreases in our payroll-related expenses and professional fees.  

   —    Increase of $20 million due to our newly acquired foreign operations.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We perform our annual goodwill impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow analysis. This analysis requires us to make various judgmental estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount factors.  

2010 – Includes the full impairment of an immaterial Chicken segment reporting unit.  

2009 –The disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions led to an increase in our discount rate in fiscal 2009 as compared to fiscal 2008. The discount rate used in our annual goodwill impairment test increased to 10.1% in fiscal 2009 from 9.3% in fiscal 2008. There were no significant changes in the other key estimates and assumptions. The increased discount rate resulted in the non-cash partial impairment of our beef reporting unit’s goodwill. The impairment has no impact on managements’ estimates of the Beef segment’s long-term profitability or value.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 – Included $15 million charge related to closing our Ponca City, Oklahoma, processed meats plant.  

2008 –  

   —    Included $17 million charge related to restructuring our Emporia, Kansas, beef operation.  

   —    Included $13 million charge related to closing our Wilkesboro, North Carolina, Cooked Products poultry plant.  

   —    Included $6 million of severance charges related to the FAST initiative.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010/2009 – Fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 increased as compared to fiscal 2008 due primarily to the increase in our cash balance.  

21  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Cash interest expense includes interest expense related to the coupon rates for senior notes and commitment/letter of credit fees incurred on our revolving credit facilities. The decrease is due to lower average weekly indebtedness of approximately 11%, partially offset by an increase in the overall average borrowing rates.  

   —    Losses on notes repurchased during fiscal 2010 includes the amount paid exceeding the carrying value of the notes repurchased, which primarily includes the repurchases of the 2011 Notes and the 7.35% Senior notes due April 2016 (2016 Notes).  

   —    Non-cash interest expense primarily includes interest related to the amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts/premiums on note issuances. This includes debt issuance costs incurred on the new credit facility in March 2009 and the 10.50% Senior Notes due 2014 (2014 Notes) issued in March 2009, as well as the accretion of the debt discount on the 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (2013 Notes) and 2014 Notes. Fiscal 2009 also includes expenses related to amendment fees paid in December 2008 on our then existing credit agreements.  

2009 vs. 2008 –  

   —    Cash interest expense includes interest expense related to the coupon rates for senior notes and commitment/letter of credit fees incurred on our revolving credit facilities. The increase was due primarily to higher average weekly indebtedness of approximately 13%. We also had an increase in the overall average borrowing rates.  

   —    Non-cash interest expense primarily includes interest related to the amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts/premiums on note issuances. The increase was primarily due to debt issuance costs incurred on the new credit facility in fiscal 2009, the 2014 Notes issued in fiscal 2009 and amendment fees paid in December 2008 on our then existing credit agreements. In addition, we had an increase due to the accretion of the debt discount on the 2013 Notes and 2014 Notes. Non-cash interest expense also includes an unrealized loss on our interest rate swap.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 – Included $12 million charge related to the impairment of an equity method investment.  

2009 – Included $24 million in foreign currency exchange loss.  

2008 – Included $18 million non-operating gain related to the sale of an investment.  

22  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The effective tax rate on continuing operations was impacted by a number of items which result in a difference between our effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. The table below reflects significant items impacting the rate as indicated.  

2010 –  

   —    Domestic production activity deduction reduced the rate 2.0%.  

   —    Decrease in unrecognized tax benefits reduced the rate 1.4%.  

   —    Decrease in state valuation allowances reduced the rate 1.0%.  

   —    State income taxes, excluding unrecognized tax benefits, increased the rate 3.4%.  

   —    Impairment of goodwill, which is not deductible for income tax purposes, increased the rate 0.9%.  

2009 –  

   —    Impairment of goodwill, which is not deductible for income tax purposes, reduced the rate 36.1%.  

   —    Increase in foreign valuation allowances reduced the rate 3.8%.  

   —    General business credits increased the rate 2.2%.  

   —    Tax planning in foreign jurisdictions increased the rate 1.7%.  

2008 –  

   —    Increase in state valuation allowances increased the rate 5.0%.  

   —    Increase in unrecognized tax benefits increased the rate 4.4%.  

   —    Net negative return on company-owned life insurance policies, which is not deductible for federal income tax purposes, increased the rate 3.8%.  

   —    General business credits reduced the rate 3.8%.  

SEGMENT RESULTS  

We operate in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. Beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we modified the presentation of our segment sales to include the impact of intersegment sales. All periods presented below include this impact. The following table is a summary of sales and operating income (loss), which is how we measure segment income (loss). Segment results exclude the results of our discontinued operation, Lakeside.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

23  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 – Operating income included a $38 million gain from insurance proceeds and a $29 million non-cash, non-tax deductible charge related to a full goodwill impairment of an immaterial Chicken segment reporting unit.  

2008 – Operating loss included $26 million of charges related to: plant closings; impairments of unimproved real property and software; and severance.  

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Sales Volume – The increase in sales volume for fiscal 2010 was due to sales volume related to a fiscal 2009 acquisition, partially offset by a decrease due to the extra week in fiscal 2009.  

   —    Average Sales Price – The increase in average sales prices is primarily due to sales mix changes associated with the reduced sales volume of lower price per pound rendered products.  

   —    Operating Income (Loss) –  

   —    Operational Improvements – Operating results were positively impacted by operational improvements, which included: yield, mix and live production performance improvements; additional processing flexibility; and reduced interplant product movement.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to grain and energy purchases. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   —    Grain Costs – Operating results were positively impacted in fiscal 2010 by a decrease in grain costs of $158 million.  

   —    Operating results included an increase in incentive-based compensation.  

2009 vs. 2008 –  

   —    Sales Volume – The increase in sales volume for fiscal 2009 was due to the extra week in fiscal 2009, as well as inventory reductions and sales volume related to recent acquisitions.  

   —    Average Sales Price – The inventory reductions and recent acquisitions lowered the average sales price, as most of the inventory reduction related to commodity products shipped internationally and sales volume from recent acquisitions was on lower priced products.  

   —    Operating Loss –  

   —    Operational Improvements – Operating results were positively impacted by operational improvements, which included: yield, mix and live production performance improvements; additional processing flexibility; and reduced interplant product movement.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to grain and energy purchases. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   —    SG&A Expenses – We reduced our selling, general and administrative expenses during fiscal 2009 by approximately $37 million.  

   —    Grain Costs – Operating results were positively impacted in fiscal 2009 by a decrease in grain costs of $28 million.  

24  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 – Operating loss included a $560 million non-cash charge related to the partial impairment of goodwill.  

2008 – Operating income included $35 million of charges related to: plant restructuring, impairments of packaging equipment and intangible assets, and severance.  

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income (Loss) –  

   —    We increased our operating margins by maximizing our revenues relative to the rising live cattle markets, as well as improved our operating costs. In addition, we had an improvement in our export sales. Operating results included an increase in incentive-based compensation.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to forward futures contracts for live cattle. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical sale and purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 vs. 2008 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income (Loss) –  

   —    While our average sales prices have decreased as compared to fiscal 2008, we have still maintained a margin as the average live costs decreased in line with the drop in our average sales price.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to forward futures contracts for live cattle. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical sale and purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

25  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2008 – Operating income included $5 million of charges related to impairment of packaging equipment and severance.  

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income –  

   —    We increased our operating margins by maximizing our revenues relative to the rising live hog markets. In addition, we had an improvement in our export sales. Operating results included an increase in incentive-based compensation.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to forward futures contracts for live hogs. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical sale and purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 vs. 2008 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income –  

   —    Operating results for fiscal 2009 were strong, but down when compared to the record year we had in fiscal 2008. While sales volume was relatively flat versus fiscal 2008, results were negatively impacted by a decrease in our average sales prices, which were only partially offset by the decrease in average live costs.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to forward futures contracts for live hogs. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical sale and purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

26  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 – Operating income included a $15 million charge related to closing our Ponca City, Oklahoma, processed meats plant.  

2008 – Operating income included $10 million of charges related to flood damage, an intangible asset impairment and severance.  

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income – Despite the increase in average sales prices and sales volume, operating income declined in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 due to an increase in raw material costs. However, we made several operational improvements in late fiscal 2009 that allow us to run our plants more efficiently. We also received $8 million in insurance proceeds in fiscal 2010 related to the flood damage at our Jefferson, Wisconsin, plant. Operating results included an increase in incentive-based compensation.  

2009 vs. 2008 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income – Operating results improved due to an increase in sales volume, as well as a reduction in raw material costs that exceeded the decrease in our average sales prices. In addition, we made several operational improvements in fiscal 2009 that allow us to run our plants more efficiently. We began realizing the majority of these improvements in our operating results during the latter part of fiscal 2009.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Our cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities and the repurchase/redemption of our 2011 Notes are expected to be met with current cash on hand, cash flows provided by operating activities, or short-term borrowings. Based on our current expectations, we believe our liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to operate our business. However, we may take advantage of opportunities to generate additional liquidity or refinance existing debt through capital market transactions. The amount, nature and timing of any capital market transactions will depend on: our operating performance and other circumstances; our then-current commitments and obligations; the amount, nature and timing of our capital requirements; any limitations imposed by our current credit arrangements; and overall market conditions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cash flows associated with changes in working capital:  

   —    2010 – Increased due to the increase in accrued salaries, wages and benefits and accounts payable balances, almost entirely offset by the increase in inventory and accounts receivable balances. The increase in accrued salaries, wages and benefits is primarily due to the accruals for incentive-based compensation.  

   —    2009 – Increased primarily due to a reduction in inventory and accounts receivable balances, partially offset by a reduction in accounts payable. The lower inventory balance was primarily due to the reduction of inventory volumes, as well as a decrease in raw material costs.  

   —    2008 – Decreased primarily due to higher inventory and accounts receivable balances, partially offset by a higher accounts payable balance. Higher inventory balances were driven by an increase in raw material costs and inventory volume.  

27  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   —    Additions to property, plant and equipment include acquiring new equipment and upgrading our facilities to maintain competitive standing and position us for future opportunities. In fiscal 2010, our capital spending included: production efficiencies in our operations; Dynamic Fuels LLC’s (Dynamic Fuels) facility; and foreign operations. In fiscal 2009, our capital spending included: improvements made in our prepared foods operations to increase efficiencies; Dynamic Fuels’ facility; and foreign operations. In fiscal 2008, our capital spending included equipment updates in our chicken plants, as well as packaging equipment upgrades in our Fresh Meats case-ready facilities.  

   —    Capital spending for fiscal 2011 is expected to be approximately $700 million, and includes spending on our operations for production and labor efficiencies, yield improvements and sales channel flexibility, as well as expansion of our foreign operations.  

   —    Acquisitions – In October 2008, we acquired three vertically integrated poultry companies in southern Brazil. The aggregate purchase price was $67 million. In addition, we had $15 million of contingent purchase price based on production volumes. The joint ventures in China called Shandong Tyson Xinchang Foods received the necessary government approvals during fiscal 2009. The aggregate purchase price for our 60% equity interest was $21 million, which excludes $93 million of cash transferred to the joint venture for future capital needs.  

   —    Change in restricted cash – In October 2008, Dynamic Fuels received $100 million in proceeds from the sale of Gulf Opportunity Zone tax-exempt bonds made available by the federal government to the regions affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. The cash received from these bonds was restricted and could only be used towards the construction of the Dynamic Fuels’ facility.  

28  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   —    Net borrowings (payments) on revolving credit facilities primarily include activity related to the accounts receivable securitization facility. With the entry into the new revolving credit facility and issuance of the 2014 Notes in March 2009, we repaid all outstanding borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility and terminated the facility.  

   —    Payments on debt include –  

   —    2010 – $524 million of 2011 Notes; $222 million of 2016 Notes; $140 million of 7.95% Notes due February 2010 (2010 Notes) (using the restricted cash held in a blocked cash collateral account for the retirement of these notes); $52 million of 7.0% Notes due May 2018; and $61 million related to the premiums on notes repurchased during the year.  

   —    2009 – $161 million of 2011 Notes; $94 million of 2010 Notes (using the restricted cash held in a blocked cash collateral account for the repurchase of these notes); and $38 million 2016 Notes.  

   —    2008 – $40 million 2016 Notes and repaid the remaining $25 million outstanding Lakeside term loan.  

   —    Net proceeds from borrowings include –  

   —    In fiscal 2009, we issued $810 million of 2014 Notes. After the original issue discount of $59 million, based on an issue price of 92.756% of face value, we received net proceeds of $751 million. We used the net proceeds towards the repayment of our borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility and for other general corporate purposes.  

   —    In fiscal 2009, Dynamic Fuels received $100 million in proceeds from the sale of Gulf Opportunity Zone tax-exempt bonds made available by the Federal government to the regions affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. These floating rate bonds are due October 1, 2033.  

   —    In fiscal 2008, we issued $458 million 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due October 15, 2013. Net proceeds were used for the net cost of the related Convertible Note Hedge and Warrant Transactions, toward the repayment of our borrowings under the accounts receivable securitization facility, and for other general corporate purposes.  

   —    In fiscal 2008, we issued 22.4 million shares of Class A stock in a public offering. Net proceeds were used toward repayment of our borrowings under the accounts receivable securitization facility and for other general corporate purposes.  

   —    In conjunction with the entry into our new credit facility and the issuance of the 2014 Notes during fiscal 2009, we paid $48 million for debt issuance costs.  

29  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   —    The revolving credit facility supports our short-term funding needs and letters of credit. Letters of credit are issued primarily in support of workers’ compensation insurance programs, derivative activities and Dynamic Fuels’ Gulf Opportunity Zone tax-exempt bonds.  

   —    Borrowing Base Adjustment – Availability under this facility, up to $1.0 billion, is based on a percentage of certain eligible accounts receivable and eligible inventory and is reduced by certain reserves. At October 2, 2010, the entire $1.0 billion was eligible for borrowing and issuing letters of credit.  

   —    Our 2013 Notes may be converted early during any fiscal quarter in the event our Class A stock trades at or above $21.96 for at least 20 trading days during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter. In this event, the note holders may require us to pay outstanding principal in cash, which totaled $458 million at October 2, 2010. Any conversion premium would be paid in shares of Class A stock. The conditions for early conversion were not met in our fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal 2010, and thus, the notes may not be converted in our first quarter fiscal 2011. Should the conditions for early conversion be satisfied in future quarters, and the holders exercised their early conversion option, we would use current cash on hand and cash flow from operations for principal payments.  

   —    At October 2, 2010, we had $315 million of 2011 Notes outstanding. We plan presently to use current cash on hand and cash flows from operations for payment on the remaining 2011 Notes due on October 1, 2011.  

   —    Our current ratio was 1.81 to 1 and 2.20 to 1 at October 2, 2010, and October 3, 2009, respectively.  

Deterioration of Credit and Capital Markets  

Credit market conditions deteriorated rapidly during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and although they have improved, they have not returned to pre-2008 levels. Several major banks and financial institutions failed or were forced to seek assistance through distressed sales or emergency government measures. While not all-inclusive, the following summarizes some of the impacts to our business:  

Credit Facility  

Cash flows from operating activities and current cash on hand are our primary source of liquidity for funding debt service and capital expenditures. We also have a revolving credit facility, with a committed maximum capacity of $1.0 billion, to provide additional liquidity for working capital needs, letters of credit, and as a source of financing for growth opportunities. As of October 2, 2010, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $175 million, none of which were drawn upon, which left $825 million available for borrowing. Our revolving credit facility is funded by a syndicate of 19 banks, with commitments ranging from $6 million to $115 million per bank. The syndicate includes bank holding companies that are required to be adequately capitalized under federal bank regulatory agency requirements. If any of the banks in the syndicate are unable to perform on their commitments to fund the facility, our liquidity could be impaired, which could reduce our ability to fund working capital needs, support letters of credit or finance our growth opportunities.  

Customers/Suppliers  

The financial condition of some of our customers and suppliers could also be impaired by current market conditions. Although we have not experienced a material increase in customer bad debts or non-performance by suppliers, current market conditions increase the probability we could experience losses from customer or supplier defaults. Should credit and capital market conditions result in a prolonged economic downturn in the United States and abroad, demand for protein products could be reduced, which could result in a reduction of sales, operating income and cash flows. In addition, we rely on livestock producers throughout the country to supply our live cattle and hogs. If these producers are adversely impacted by the current economic conditions and terminate their production, our livestock supply for processing could be significantly impacted.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Additionally, we have cash flow assistance programs in which certain livestock suppliers participate. Under these programs, we pay an amount for livestock equivalent to a standard cost to grow such livestock during periods of low market sales prices. The amounts of such payments that are in excess of the market sales price are recorded as receivables and accrue interest. Participating suppliers are obligated to repay these receivables balances when market sales prices exceed this standard cost, or upon termination of the agreement. Our maximum obligation associated with these programs is limited to the fair value of each participating livestock supplier’s net tangible assets. Although we believe the aggregate maximum obligation under the program is unlikely to ever be reached, the potential maximum obligation as of October 2, 2010, was approximately $215 million. The total receivables under these programs were $51 million and $72 million at October 2, 2010 and October 3, 2009, respectively. Even though these programs are limited to the net tangible assets of the participating livestock suppliers, we also manage a portion of our credit risk associated with these programs by obtaining security interests in livestock suppliers’ assets. After analyzing residual credit risks and general market conditions, we have recorded an allowance for these programs’ estimated uncollectible receivables of $15 million and $20 million at October 2, 2010, and October 3, 2009, respectively.  

Investments  

The value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities, company-owned life insurance and pension and other postretirement plan assets, are impacted by market volatility. These instruments were recorded at fair value as of October 2, 2010. We did not have a significant change in fair value of these instruments during fiscal 2010.  

We currently oversee two domestic and one foreign subsidiary non-contributory qualified defined benefit pension plans. All three pension plans are frozen to new participants and no additional benefits will accrue for participants. Based on our 2010 actuarial valuation, we anticipate contributions of $5 million to these plans for fiscal 2011. We also have one domestic unfunded defined benefit plan. Based on our 2010 actuarial valuation, we anticipate contributions of $2 million to this plan in fiscal 2011.  

Financial Instruments  

As part of our commodity risk management activities, we use derivative financial instruments, primarily futures and options, to reduce our exposure to various market risks related to commodity purchases. Similar to the capital markets, the commodities markets have been volatile over the past few years. Grain and some energy prices remain volatile after reaching an all-time high during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 before falling sharply. While the reduction in grain and energy prices benefit us long-term, we recorded losses related to these financial instruments in fiscal 2009 of $257 million. We have implemented policies to reduce our earnings volatility associated with mark-to-market derivative activities, including more use of normal physical purchases and normal physical sales which are not required to be marked to market.  

Insurance  

We rely on insurers as a protection against liability claims, property damage and various other risks. Our primary insurers maintain an A.M. Best Financial Strength Rating of A or better. Nevertheless, we continue to monitor this situation as insurers have been and are expected to continue to be impacted by the current capital market environment.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Credit Ratings  

2016 Notes  

On September 4, 2008, Standard & Poor’s (S&P) downgraded the credit rating from “BBB-” to “BB.” This downgrade increased the interest rate on the 2016 Notes from 6.85% to 7.35%, effective beginning with the six-month interest payment due October 1, 2008.  

On November 13, 2008, Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. (Moody’s) downgraded the credit rating from “Ba1” to “Ba3.” This downgrade increased the interest rate on the 2016 Notes from 7.35% to 7.85%, effective beginning with the six-month interest payment due April 1, 2009.  

On August 19, 2010, S&P upgraded the credit rating from “BB” to “BB+.” On September 2, 2010, Moody’s upgraded the credit rating from “Ba3” to “Ba2.” These upgrades decreased the interest rate on the 2016 Notes from 7.85% to 7.35%, effective beginning with the six-month interest payment due October 1, 2010.  

A further one-notch upgrade by either ratings agency would decrease the interest rates on the 2016 Notes by 0.25%, while a one-notch downgrade by either ratings agency would increase the interest rates on the 2016 Notes by 0.25%.  

Revolving Credit Facility  

S&P’s corporate credit rating for Tyson Foods, Inc. is “BB+.” Moody’s corporate credit rating for Tyson Foods, Inc. is “Ba2.” If Moody’s were to upgrade our credit rating to “Ba1” or higher, while our S&P credit rating remained at “BB+” or higher, our letter of credit fees would decrease by 0.25%.  

If S&P were to downgrade our corporate credit rating to “B+” or lower or Moody’s were to downgrade our corporate credit rating to “B1” or lower, our letter of credit fees would increase by an additional 0.25%.  

Debt Covenants  

Our revolving credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; pay dividends or make other payments in respect of our capital stock; amend material documents; change the nature of our business; make certain payments of debt; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into sale/leaseback or hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. If availability under this facility is less than the greater of 15% of the commitments and $150 million, we will be required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio.  

Our 2014 Notes also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; make certain investments and restricted payments; create liens; create restrictions on distributions from subsidiaries; engage in specified sales of assets and subsidiary stock; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter new lines of business; engage in consolidation, mergers and acquisitions; and engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions.  

We were in compliance with all covenants at October 2, 2010.  

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements material to our financial position or results of operations. The off-balance sheet arrangements we have are guarantees of debt of outside third parties, including a lease and grower loans, and residual value guarantees covering certain operating leases for various types of equipment. See Note 10: Commitments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  

32  

Table of Contents 

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of October 2, 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) In the event of a default on payment, acceleration of the principal payments could occur.  

  (2) Interest payments include interest on all outstanding debt. Payments are estimated for variable rate and variable term debt based on effective rates at October 2, 2010, and expected payment dates.  

  (3) Amounts include guarantees of debt of outside third parties, which consist of a lease and grower loans, all of which are substantially collateralized by the underlying assets, as well as residual value guarantees covering certain operating leases for various types of equipment. The amounts included are the maximum potential amount of future payments.  

  (4) Amounts include minimum lease payments under lease agreements.  

  (5) Amounts include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligations amount included items, such as future purchase commitments for grains, livestock contracts and fixed grower fees that provide terms that meet the above criteria. We have excluded future purchase commitments for contracts that do not meet these criteria. Purchase orders have not been included in the table, as a purchase order is an authorization to purchase and may not be considered an enforceable and legally binding contract. Contracts for goods or services that contain termination clauses without penalty have also been excluded.  

  (6) Amounts include estimated amounts to complete buildings and equipment under construction as of October 2, 2010.  

  (7) Amounts include items that meet the definition of a purchase obligation and are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

In addition to the amounts shown above in the table, we have unrecognized tax benefits of $184 million and related interest and penalties of $64 million at October 2, 2010, recorded as liabilities. During fiscal 2011, tax audit resolutions could potentially reduce these amounts by approximately $20 million, either because tax positions are sustained on audit or because we agree to their disallowance.  

The maximum contractual obligation associated with our cash flow assistance programs at October 2, 2010, based on the estimated fair values of the livestock supplier’s net tangible assets on that date, aggregated to approximately $215 million, or approximately $164 million remaining maximum commitment after netting the cash flow assistance related receivables.  

The minority partner in our Shandong Tyson Xinchang Foods joint ventures in China has the right to exercise put options to require us to purchase its entire 40% equity interest at a price equal to the minority partner’s contributed capital plus (minus) its pro-rata share of the joint venture’s accumulated and undistributed net earnings (losses). The put options are exercisable for a five-year term commencing April 2011. At October 2, 2010, the put options, if they had been exercisable, would have resulted in a purchase price of approximately $67 million for the minority partner’s entire equity interest.  

RECENTLY ISSUED/ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

Refer to the discussion under Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1: Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for recently issued accounting pronouncements and Note 2: Change in Accounting Principles for recently adopted accounting pronouncements.  

33  

Table of Contents 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates we consider critical.  

 Description   Judgments and Uncertainties   Effect if Actual Results Differ From

Assumptions 

  Contingent liabilities       

We are subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to wage and hour/labor, environmental, product, taxing authorities and other matters, and are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters, as well as potential ranges of probable losses. 

A determination of the amount of reserves and disclosures required, if any, for these contingencies are made after considerable analysis of each individual issue. We accrue for contingent liabilities when an assessment of the risk of loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. We disclose contingent liabilities when the risk of loss is reasonably possible or probable.   Our contingent liabilities contain uncertainties because the eventual outcome will result from future events, and determination of current reserves requires estimates and judgments related to future changes in facts and circumstances, differing interpretations of the law and assessments of the amount of damages, and the effectiveness of strategies or other factors beyond our control.    

We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our contingent liabilities during the past three fiscal years. 

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate our contingent liabilities. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. 

 Marketing and advertising costs       

We incur advertising, retailer incentive and consumer incentive costs to promote products through marketing programs. These programs include cooperative advertising, volume discounts, in-store display incentives, coupons and other programs. 

Marketing and advertising costs are charged in the period incurred. We accrue costs based on the estimated performance, historical utilization and redemption of each program. 

Cash consideration given to customers is considered a reduction in the price of our products, thus recorded as a reduction to sales. The remainder of marketing and advertising costs is recorded as a selling, general and administrative expense.    

Recognition of the costs related to these programs contains uncertainties due to judgment required in estimating the potential performance and redemption of each program. 

These estimates are based on many factors, including experience of similar promotional programs.    

We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our marketing accruals during the past three fiscal years. 

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate our marketing accruals. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. 

A 10% change in our marketing accruals at October 2, 2010, would impact pretax earnings by approximately $11 million. 

34  

Table of Contents 

 Description   Judgments and Uncertainties   Effect if Actual Results Differ From

Assumptions 

  Accrued self insurance       

We are self insured for certain losses related to health and welfare, workers’ compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. 

We use an independent third-party actuary to assist in determining our self-insurance liability. We and the actuary consider a number of factors when estimating our self-insurance liability, including claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. 

We periodically review our estimates and assumptions with our third-party actuary to assist us in determining the adequacy of our self-insurance liability. Our policy is to maintain an accrual within the central to high point of the actuarial range.    

Our self-insurance liability contains uncertainties due to assumptions required and judgment used. 

Costs to settle our obligations, including legal and healthcare costs, could increase or decrease causing estimates of our self-insurance liability to change. 

Incident rates, including frequency and severity, could increase or decrease causing estimates in our self-insurance liability to change.    

We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our self-insurance liability during the past three fiscal years. 

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate our self-insurance liability. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. 

A 10% increase in the actuarial range at October 2, 2010, would result in an increase in the amount we recorded for our self-insurance liability of approximately $24 million. A 10% decrease in the actuarial range at October 2, 2010, would not result in a material change in the amount we recorded for our self-insurance liability. 

 Impairment of long-lived assets       

Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Examples include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which we use a long-lived asset or a change in its physical condition. 

When evaluating long-lived assets for impairment, we compare the carrying value of the asset to the asset’s estimated undiscounted future cash flows. An impairment is indicated if the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset. The impairment is the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the long-lived asset. 

We recorded impairment charges related to long-lived assets of $19 million, $25 million, and $52 million, respectively, in fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008.   Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties due to judgment in assumptions and estimates surrounding undiscounted future cash flows of the long-lived asset, including forecasting useful lives of assets and selecting the discount rate that reflects the risk inherent in future cash flows to determine fair value.    

We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to evaluate the impairment of long-lived assets during the last three fiscal years. 

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate impairments of long-lived assets. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate estimated future cash flows, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. Additionally, we continue to evaluate our future international business strategies, which may expose us to future impairment losses. 

35  

Table of Contents 

 Description   Judgments and Uncertainties   Effect if Actual Results Differ From

Assumptions 

  Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets    

Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step is to identify if a potential impairment exists by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to have a potential impairment and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. However, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss to recognize, if any. 

The second step compares the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill exceeds the carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered impaired. However, if the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. 

The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination (i.e., the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all the assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid to acquire the reporting unit). 

For other intangible assets, if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. 

We have elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for goodwill and other intangible assets. However, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets prior to the required annual assessment if, among other things, we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of the business or a sustained decline in market capitalization.    

We estimate the fair value of our reporting units, generally our operating segments, using various valuation techniques, with the primary technique being a discounted cash flow analysis, which uses significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates. 

Generally, we utilize normalized operating margin assumptions based on long-term expectations and operating margins historically realized in the reporting units’ industries. We include assumptions about sales, operating margins and growth rates which consider our budgets, business plans and economic projections, and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. For our fiscal 2010 impairment test, none of our material reporting units operating margin assumptions were in excess of the annual margins realized in the most recent year. 

Assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. 

Other intangible asset fair values have been calculated for trademarks using a royalty rate method. Assumptions about royalty rates are based on the rates at which similar brands and trademarks are licensed in the marketplace. 

Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties due to uncontrollable events that could positively or negatively impact the anticipated future economic and operating conditions.    

We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to evaluate impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets during the last three years. 

The discount rate used in our annual goodwill impairment test decreased to an average of 8.4% in fiscal 2010 from 10.1% in fiscal 2009. There were no significant changes in the other key estimates and assumptions. 

Other than the Beef reporting unit in 2009, no other material reporting units failed the first step of the annual goodwill impairment analysis in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 and therefore, the second step was not necessary. In fiscal 2009, we recorded a $560 million partial impairment of our Beef reporting unit’s goodwill, which was driven by an increase in our discount rate used in the 2009 annual goodwill impairment analysis as a result of disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions. In fiscal 2010, we recorded a non-cash $29 million full impairment of an immaterial Chicken segment reporting unit’s goodwill. 

All material reporting units’ estimated fair value exceeded their carrying value by more than 20%. Consequently, we currently do not consider any of our material reporting units at significant risk of failing the first step of the annual goodwill impairment test. 

Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value of the reporting units are outside the control of management, including interest rates, cost of capital, tax rates, and our credit ratings. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units and other intangible assets, it is possible a material change could occur. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, we may be required to perform the second step which could result in additional material impairments of our goodwill. 

Our fiscal 2010 other intangible asset impairment analysis did not result in a material impairment charge. A hypothetical 10% decrease in the fair value of intangible assets would not result in a material impairment. 

36  

Table of Contents 

 Description   Judgments and Uncertainties   Effect if Actual Results Differ From

Assumptions 

  Income taxes       

We estimate total income tax expense based on statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in various jurisdictions in which we earn income. 

Federal income tax includes an estimate for taxes on earnings of foreign subsidiaries expected to be remitted to the United States and be taxable, but not for earnings considered indefinitely invested in the foreign subsidiary. 

Deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. 

Valuation allowances are recorded when it is likely a tax benefit will not be realized for a deferred tax asset. 

We record unrecognized tax benefit liabilities for known or anticipated tax issues based on our analysis of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due.    

Changes in tax laws and rates could affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. 

Changes in projected future earnings could affect the recorded valuation allowances in the future. 

Our calculations related to income taxes contain uncertainties due to judgment used to calculate tax liabilities in the application of complex tax regulations across the tax jurisdictions where we operate. 

Our analysis of unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties based on judgment used to apply the more likely than not recognition and measurement thresholds.    

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the tax related balances or valuation allowances. However, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. 

To the extent we prevail in matters for which unrecognized tax benefit liabilities have been established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of our recorded unrecognized tax benefit liabilities, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement would require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period of resolution. A favorable tax settlement would be recognized as a reduction in our effective tax rate in the period of resolution. 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK