ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Set forth below is a summary of the material risks to an investment in our securities. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of the below risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could suffer, which might cause the value of our securities to decline.

We face risks associated with significant international operations, including exposure to foreign currency fluctuations.

We operate on a global basis with approximately 80% of our net sales coming from markets outside the U.S. While geographic diversity helps to reduce the Company’s exposure to risks in any one country or part of the world, it also means that we are subject to the full range of risks associated with significant international operations, including, but not limited to:

▪changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenues, profits and cash flows we receive from non-U.S. markets or increase our supply costs, as measured in U.S. dollars, in those markets,

▪exchange controls and other limits on our ability to repatriate earnings from overseas,

▪political or economic instability or changing macroeconomic conditions in our major markets,

▪lack of well-established or reliable legal systems in certain countries where the Company operates,

▪foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources, and

▪foreign or domestic legal and regulatory requirements, including those resulting in potentially adverse tax consequences or the imposition of onerous trade restrictions, price controls or other government controls.

These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to sell our products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

In an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements, the Company engages in a combination of cost-containment measures, selling price increases and selective hedging of foreign currency transactions. However, these measures may not succeed in offsetting any negative impact of foreign currency rate movements on our business and results of operations.

4

For example, in 2010 our results of operations were adversely impacted by the designation of Venezuela as hyperinflationary and the subsequent currency devaluations in Venezuela. Also, in November 2011, a new price control law came into effect in Venezuela. While it is not yet clear how the new law will be implemented, it could adversely affect the Company's current pricing strategies in Venezuela. Going forward, additional currency devaluations or continued or worsening foreign exchange or price controls in Venezuela could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. For additional information regarding the risks associated with our operations in Venezuela, refer to Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Overview and Outlook” and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Uncertain global economic conditions and disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect our business.

Uncertain global economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Recent global economic trends pose challenges to our business and could result in declining revenues, profitability and cash flow. Although we continue to devote significant resources to support our brands, during periods of economic uncertainty consumers may switch to economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our products or result in a shift in our product mix from higher margin to lower margin product offerings. Additionally, retailers may increase pressure on our selling prices or increase promotional activity for lower-priced or value offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes and margins. For example, continuing economic uncertainty in Europe, and a worsening of the debt crisis there, could negatively affect consumer confidence globally.

While we currently generate significant cash flows from our ongoing operations and have access to global credit markets through our various financing activities, any disruption in the credit markets, including in Europe, could limit the availability of credit or the ability or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit, which could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources or significantly increase our cost of capital. If any financial institutions that are parties to our revolving credit facility supporting our commercial paper program or other financing arrangements, such as interest rate or foreign exchange hedging instruments, were to declare bankruptcy or become insolvent, they may be unable to perform under their agreements with us. This could leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain interest rate or foreign currency exposures. In addition, tighter credit markets may lead to business disruptions for certain of our suppliers, contract manufacturers or trade customers which could, in turn, adversely impact our business.

Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business.

We face vigorous competition around the world, including from other large, multinational companies, some of which have greater resources than we do. We face this competition in several aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, the pricing of products, promotional activities and new product introductions. Such competition also extends to administrative and legal challenges of product claims and advertising. Our ability to compete also depends on the strength of our brands and on our ability to defend our patent, trademark and trade dress rights against legal challenges brought by competitors.

We may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of such initiatives or challenges by competitors or to successfully counteract them, which could harm our business. In addition, the cost of responding to such initiatives and challenges, both in terms of management time and out-of-pocket expenses, may affect our performance in the relevant period. A failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our growth and profitability.

Changes in the policies of our retail trade customers and increasing dependence on key retailers in developed markets may adversely affect our business.

Our products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which has experienced increased trade concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. With the growing trend toward retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, and some of these retailers, including large-format retailers, may have greater bargaining strength than we do. They may use this leverage to demand higher trade discounts, allowances or slotting fees, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. Also, tighter credit or capital markets could negatively affect our retail customers and as a result, affect our working capital. We may also be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retail trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, delisting of our products, environmental or sustainability initiatives and other conditions. In addition, private label products sold by retail trade chains, which are typically sold at lower prices than branded products, are a source of competition for certain of our product lines, including liquid hand soaps and shower gels.

5

The growth of our business depends on the successful development and introduction of innovative new products.

Our growth depends on the continued success of existing products as well as the successful development and introduction of innovative new products and line extensions, which face the uncertainty of retail and consumer acceptance and reaction from competitors. In addition, our ability to create new products and line extensions and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can successfully:

▪develop and fund technological innovations,

▪obtain and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection and avoid infringing intellectual property rights of others,

▪obtain approvals and registrations of regulated products, including from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other regulatory bodies in the U.S. and abroad, and

▪anticipate consumer needs and preferences.

The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business and any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in the Company not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position.

Volatility in material and other costs and our increasing dependence on key suppliers could adversely impact our profitability.

Raw and packaging material commodities such as resins, tropical oils, essential oils, tallow, corn and soybeans are subject to wide price variations. Increases in the costs and availability of these commodities and the costs of energy, transportation and other necessary services may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies such as in manufacturing and distribution. In addition, our move to global suppliers for materials and other services in order to achieve cost reductions and simplify our business has resulted in an increasing dependence on key suppliers. For certain materials, new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry, government and Colgate standards, which can require additional investment and take some period of time. While we believe that the supplies of raw materials needed to manufacture our products are adequate, global economic conditions, supplier capacity constraints and other factors could affect the availability of, or prices for, those raw materials.

Damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business.

Maintaining our strong reputation with consumers and our trade partners globally is critical to selling our branded products. Accordingly, we devote significant time and resources to programs designed to protect and preserve our reputation, such as our Ethics and Compliance, Sustainability, Brand Protection and Product Safety, Regulatory and Quality initiatives. 

In addition, from time to time, third parties sell counterfeit versions of our products, which are inferior or may pose safety risks. As a result, consumers of our brands could confuse our products with these counterfeit products, which could cause them to refrain from purchasing our brands in the future and in turn could impair our brand equity and adversely affect our business.

Similarly, adverse publicity regarding our responses to health concerns, our environmental impacts, including packaging, energy and water use and waste management, or other sustainability issues, whether or not deserved, could jeopardize our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these reasons could have a material adverse effect on our business, as well as require resources to rebuild our reputation.

Our business is subject to product liability claims.

From time to time the Company may be subject to product liability claims alleging, among other things, that its products cause damage to property or persons, provide inadequate instructions or warnings regarding their use or contain design or manufacturing defects or contaminants. For example, the Company has been named in product liability actions alleging that certain talc products it sold prior to 1996 were contaminated with asbestos, causing harm to consumers. In addition, if one of the Company's products, or a raw material contained in our products, is perceived or found to be defective or unsafe, we may need to recall some of our products. Whether or not a product liability claim is successful, or a recall required, such assertions could have an adverse effect on our business and the negative publicity surrounding them could harm our reputation and brand image. 

6

Our business is subject to regulation in the U.S. and abroad.

Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and abroad. Such regulation applies to most aspects of our products, including their development, ingredients, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, transportation, distribution, export, import, advertising and sale. Also, our selling practices are regulated by competition law authorities in the U.S. and abroad. U.S. federal authorities, including the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), regulate different aspects of our business, along with parallel authorities at the state and local level and comparable authorities overseas.

While it is our policy and practice to comply with all regulatory requirements applicable to our business, a finding that we are in violation of, or out of compliance with, applicable laws or regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, damages, injunctions or product recalls, or criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if a claim is unsuccessful, is without merit or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products, processes or business practices could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. For information regarding our European competition matters, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In addition, new or more stringent regulations, or more restrictive interpretations of existing regulations, could have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, from time to time, various regulatory authorities and consumer groups in Europe, the U.S. and other countries request or conduct reviews of the use of various ingredients in consumer products. Triclosan, an ingredient used primarily in Colgate Total toothpaste as well as certain other oral care products and soaps, is an example of an ingredient that has undergone reviews by various regulatory authorities around the world. A finding by a regulatory authority that triclosan, or any other of our ingredients, should not be used in certain consumer products or should otherwise be newly regulated, could have a material adverse impact on our business, as could negative reactions by our consumers, trade customers or non-governmental organizations to our use of such ingredients. Additionally, an inability to timely obtain regulatory approval of new or reformulated products containing alternative ingredients could likewise have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Our business is subject to the risks inherent in global manufacturing and sourcing activities.

The Company is engaged in manufacturing and sourcing of products and materials on a global scale. We are subject to the risks inherent in such activities, including, but not limited to:

▪industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues,

▪environmental events, 

▪strikes and other labor disputes,

▪disruptions in logistics, 

▪loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, 

▪raw material and product quality or safety issues, 

▪the impact on our suppliers of tighter credit or capital markets, and 

▪natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control.

While we have business continuity and contingency plans for key manufacturing sites and the supply of raw materials, significant disruption of manufacturing for any of the above reasons could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied, have an adverse impact on our business.

A failure of a key information technology system could adversely impact the Company’s ability to conduct business.

The Company relies extensively on information technology systems, including some which rely on third-party service providers, in order to conduct its business. These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to communicating within the Company and with other parties, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory legal or tax requirements and other processes involved in managing the business. Although the Company has network security measures in place, the systems may be vulnerable to computer viruses, 

7

security breaches and other similar disruptions from unauthorized users. While the Company has business continuity plans in place, if the systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, including the poor performance or failure of third-party service providers, catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, network outages, failed upgrades or other similar events, and if the business continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues on a timely basis, the Company may suffer interruptions in the ability to manage or conduct business which may adversely impact the Company’s business.

Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the succession of senior management.

Our success largely depends on the performance of our management team and other key employees. If we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key people, our future operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, our business may be materially adversely affected. While we follow a disciplined, ongoing succession planning process and have succession plans in place for senior management and other key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of qualified senior executives will continue to be available to us at particular moments in time.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES