ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Executive Overview and Outlook

Colgate-Palmolive Company seeks to deliver strong, consistent business results and superior shareholder returns by providing consumers globally with products that make their lives healthier and more enjoyable.

To this end, the Company is tightly focused on two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. Within these segments, the Company follows a closely defined business strategy to develop and increase market leadership positions in key product categories. These product categories are prioritized based on their capacity to maximize the use of the organization’s core competencies and strong global equities and to deliver sustainable long-term growth.

Operationally, the Company is organized along geographic lines with management teams having responsibility for the business and financial results in each region. The Company competes in more than 200 countries and territories worldwide with established businesses in all regions contributing to the Company’s sales and profitability. Approximately 80% of our net sales are generated from markets outside the U.S., with approximately 50% of our net sales coming from emerging markets (which consist of Latin America, Greater Asia/Africa (excluding Japan) and Central Europe). This geographic diversity and balance help to reduce the Company’s exposure to business and other risks in any one country or part of the world.

The Oral, Personal and Home Care segment is operated through four reportable operating segments: North America, Latin America, Europe/South Pacific and Greater Asia/Africa, all of which sell to a variety of retail and wholesale customers and distributors. The Company, through Hill’s Pet Nutrition, also competes on a worldwide basis in the pet nutrition market, selling its products principally through specialty pet retailers and the veterinary profession.

On an ongoing basis, management focuses on a variety of key indicators to monitor business health and performance. These indicators include market share, sales (including volume, pricing and foreign exchange components), organic sales growth (Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments), gross profit margin, operating profit, net income and earnings per share, as well as measures used to optimize the management of working capital, capital expenditures, cash flow and return on capital. The monitoring of these indicators, and the Company’s corporate governance practices (including the Company’s Code of Conduct), help to maintain business health and strong internal controls.

To achieve its business and financial objectives, the Company focuses the organization on initiatives to drive and fund growth. The Company seeks to capture significant opportunities for growth by identifying and meeting consumer needs within its core categories, through its focus on innovation and the deployment of valuable consumer and shopper insights in the development of successful new products regionally, which are then rolled out on a global basis. To enhance these efforts, the Company has developed key initiatives to build strong relationships with consumers, dental and veterinary professionals and retail customers. Growth opportunities are greater in those areas of the world in which economic development and rising consumer incomes expand the size and number of markets for the Company’s products.

The investments needed to support this growth are developed through continuous, Company-wide initiatives to lower costs and increase effective asset utilization through which the Company seeks to become even more effective and efficient throughout its businesses, which are referred to as the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives. The Company also continues to prioritize its investments toward its higher margin businesses, specifically Oral Care, Personal Care and Pet Nutrition.

On June 20, 2011, the Company, Colgate-Palmolive Europe Sàrl, Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC (together with Unilever N.V., “Unilever”) finalized the Company’s acquisition from Unilever of the Sanex personal care business in accordance with a Business and Share Sale and Purchase Agreement for an aggregate purchase price of €676 ($966), subject to certain post-closing purchase price adjustments. The acquisition was financed with available cash, proceeds from the sale of the Company’s Euro-denominated investment portfolio and the issuance of commercial paper.

On July 29, 2011, in connection with the Sanex acquisition, Colgate sold its laundry detergent business in Colombia to Unilever for $215 resulting in a pretax gain of $207 ($135 aftertax gain). This gain was more than offset by pretax costs of $224 ($177 aftertax costs) associated with the implementation of various business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives, the sale of land in Mexico and a competition law matter in France related to a divested detergent business, as discussed further below.

The various business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives include the integration of Sanex, the right-sizing of the Colombia business and the closing of an oral care facility in Mississauga, Canada and a Hill’s facility in Los Angeles, CA.

13

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

On September 13, 2011, the Company’s Mexican subsidiary entered into an agreement to sell to the United States of America the Mexico City site on which its commercial operations, technology center and soap production facility are located. The sale price is payable in three installments, with the final installment due upon the transfer of the property, which is expected to occur in 2014. The Company intends to re-invest these payments to relocate its soap production to a new state-of-the-art facility to be constructed at its Mission Hills, Mexico site, to relocate its commercial and technology operations within Mexico City and to prepare the existing site for transfer. As a result, over the next three years, the Company expects to make capital improvements and incur costs to exit the site. These exit costs will primarily be related to staff leaving indemnities, accelerated depreciation and demolition.

As disclosed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, with over 80% of its Net sales generated outside of the United States, the Company is exposed to changes in economic conditions and foreign currency exchange rates, as well as political uncertainty in some countries, all of which could impact future operating results. For example, as discussed in detail below, the operating environment in Venezuela is challenging, with economic uncertainty fueled by currency devaluations and high inflation and governmental restrictions in the form of import authorization controls, currency exchange controls, price controls and the possibility of expropriation of property or other resources.

In particular, as a result of the devaluations of the Venezuelan bolivar fuerte described more fully in Note 13 “Venezuela” to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the local currency operations of the Company’s Venezuelan subsidiary (CP Venezuela) now translate into fewer U.S. dollars. The Company has taken, and continues to take, actions to mitigate the impact of both devaluations on its operations, although its ability to do so in the future may be limited due to new price controls instituted by the Venezuelan government. As a result, the Company may be unable to implement its pricing strategy to offset the effects of inflation in Venezuela.

Additionally, the Venezuelan government continues to impose import authorization controls and currency exchange and payment controls. During 2010, a new currency market was established and the government closed the free-floating parallel market. Under existing regulations, CP Venezuela is not permitted to access the new currency market, but continues to have limited access to U.S. dollars at the official rate, and currently only for imported goods. As a result, CP Venezuela funds its requirements for imported goods through a combination of U.S. dollars obtained from the government at the official rate, intercompany borrowings and existing U.S. dollar cash balances, which were obtained previously through parallel market transactions and through the prior liquidation of its U.S. dollar-denominated bond portfolio.

The Company’s business in Venezuela, and the Company's ability to repatriate its earnings, continue to be negatively affected by these difficult conditions and would be further negatively affected by additional devaluations or the imposition of additional or more stringent controls on foreign currency exchange, pricing or imports or other governmental actions. For the year ended December 31, 2011, CP Venezuela represented approximately 5% of the Company’s consolidated Net sales. At December 31, 2011, CP Venezuela’s local currency monetary net asset position was approximately $311. 

Looking forward, we expect global macroeconomic and market conditions to remain highly challenging. While the global marketplace in which we operate has always been highly competitive, the Company continues to experience heightened competitive activity in certain markets from other large multinational companies, some of which have greater resources than we do. Such activities have included more aggressive product claims and marketing challenges, as well as increased promotional spending. Additionally, we continue to experience volatile foreign currency fluctuations and high commodity costs. While the Company has taken, and will continue to take, measures to mitigate the effect of these conditions, should they persist, they could adversely affect the Company’s future results.

The Company believes it is well prepared to meet the challenges ahead due to its strong financial condition, experience operating in challenging environments and continued focus on the Company’s recently updated strategic initiatives: engaging to build our brands; innovation for growth; effectiveness and efficiency; and leading to win. This focus, together with the strength of the Company’s global brand names and its broad international presence in both mature and emerging markets, should position the Company well to increase shareholder value over the long term.

Results of Operations

Net Sales

Worldwide Net sales were $16,734 in 2011, up 7.5% from 2010, driven by volume growth of 3.5%, net selling price increases of 1.0% and a positive foreign exchange impact of 3.0%. Excluding the impact of the divestment of the non-core laundry detergent business in Colombia, volume increased 4.0%. The Sanex business contributed 1.0% to worldwide Net sales and volume growth in 2011. Organic sales (Net sales excluding foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments) increased 4.0%, on organic volume growth of 3.0% in 2011. Organic volume growth excludes the impact of acquisitions and divestments.

14

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Net sales in the Oral, Personal and Home Care segment were $14,562 in 2011, up 8.0% from 2010, driven by volume growth of 4.0%, net selling price increases of 1.0% and a positive foreign exchange impact of 3.0%. Excluding the impact of the divestment of the non-core detergent business in Colombia, volume increased 4.5%. The Sanex business contributed 1.0% to sales and volume growth in 2011. Organic sales in the Oral, Personal and Home Care segment increased 4.5% on organic volume growth of 3.5% in 2011. 

Net sales for Hill’s Pet Nutrition increased 4.5% in 2011 to $2,172 driven by net selling price increases of 1.5%, and a positive foreign exchange impact of 3.0%, while volume remained flat. Organic sales in Hill’s Pet Nutrition increased 1.5% in 2011.

Worldwide Net sales were $15,564 in 2010, up 1.5% from 2009 as volume growth of 3.0% and level selling prices were partially offset by a negative foreign exchange impact of 1.5%. Worldwide organic sales increased 3.0% in 2010.

Gross Profit

Worldwide Gross profit margin decreased to 57.3% in 2011 from 59.1% in 2010. Excluding the impact of costs associated with various business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives of 30 basis points (bps), gross profit margin was 57.6% in 2011. The decrease in 2011 was primarily due to higher raw and packaging material costs driven by global commodity cost increases (390 bps), partially offset by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives (190 bps) and by higher pricing (50 bps).

Worldwide Gross profit margin increased to 59.1% in 2010 from 58.8% in 2009. The increase in 2010 was primarily driven by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives (170 bps) and by higher pricing (10 bps), partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs driven by global commodity cost increases (140 bps).

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales were 34.4% in 2011, 34.8% in 2010 and 34.5% in 2009. Excluding the impact of costs associated with various business realignment and other cost saving initiatives, Selling, general and administrative expenses were 34.3% in 2011. The 50 bps decrease in 2011 was primarily due to lower advertising spending (20 bps) and lower overhead expenses (30 bps). In 2011, advertising increased 4.7% to $1,734 as compared with $1,656 in 2010, but decreased as a percentage of Net sales from 10.6% in 2010 to 10.4% in 2011. The 30 bps increase in 2010 was primarily due to higher advertising spending (60 bps), partially offset by the impact of cost-saving initiatives. 

Other (Income) Expense, Net

Other (income) expense, net was ($9), $301 and $111 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The components of Other (income) expense, net are presented below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

15

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Operating Profit

In 2011, Operating profit increased 10% to $3,841 from $3,489 in 2010. In 2010, Operating profit decreased 3% to $3,489 from $3,615 in 2009.

In 2011, Operating profit was impacted by the gain on the sale of the detergent business in Colombia, costs associated with various business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives, costs related to the sale of land in Mexico and a charge for a competition law matter in France related to a divested detergent business. In 2010, Operating profit was impacted by a one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela, termination benefits and the gain on sales of non-core product lines. Excluding these items in both years, Operating profit increased 2% in 2011 and 5% in 2010 as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Expense, Net

Interest expense, net was $52 in 2011 compared with $59 in 2010 and $77 in 2009. The decrease in Interest expense, net from 2010 to 2011 was mainly due to lower average interest rates, partially offset by higher debt balances. The decrease in Interest expense, net from 2009 to 2010 was due to lower average interest rates.

Income Taxes

The effective income tax rate was 32.6% in 2011, 32.6% in 2010 and 32.2% in 2009 and all years benefited from global tax strategies. The impact on the Company’s effective income tax rate of the items described above was as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Non-GAAP effective income tax rate of 31.8% in 2011 includes a benefit of 40 bps related to a change in state tax law. The Non-GAAP effective income tax rate of 30.9% in 2010 includes a benefit of 140 bps related to the remeasurement of the Venezuelan balance sheet and lower taxes on unpaid remittances.

Net Income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company

Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company was $2,431, or $4.94 per share on a diluted basis, in 2011 compared with $2,203, or $4.31 per share on a diluted basis, in 2010 and $2,291, or $4.37 per share on a diluted basis, in 2009. In 2011, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company included an aftertax gain on the sale of the laundry detergent business in Colombia of $135 ($0.27 per diluted share), which was more than offset by aftertax costs of $177 ($0.36 per diluted share) associated with the implementation of various business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives, the sale of land in Mexico and a competition law matter in France related to a divested detergent business.

16

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

In 2010, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company included a one-time charge of $271 ($0.53 per diluted share) related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela, $61 ($0.12 per diluted share) in aftertax charges for termination benefits, a $30 ($0.06 per diluted share) aftertax gain from the sale of non-core product lines in Latin America and a $31 ($0.06 per diluted share) aftertax gain related to the reorganization of an overseas subsidiary. 

Excluding the items described above, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company in 2011 was $2,473 as compared to $2,474 in 2010 and earnings per common share on a diluted basis increased 4% to $5.03. Excluding the items described above, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company in 2010 increased 8% to $2,474 and earnings per share on a diluted basis increased 11% to $4.84. 

Segment Results

The Company markets its products in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world in two distinct business segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, including Operating profit. The Company uses Operating profit as a measure of the operating segment performance because it excludes the impact of corporate-driven decisions related to interest expense and income taxes.

North America

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales in North America decreased 0.5% in 2011 to $2,995, as volume growth of 2.0% and a positive foreign exchange impact of 0.5% were more than offset by net selling price decreases of 3.0%. Organic sales in North America decreased 1.0% in 2011. 

Net sales in North America increased 2.0% in 2010 to $3,005 as a result of 3.5% volume growth and a 1.0% positive impact of foreign exchange, partially offset by 2.5% net selling price decreases. Organic sales in North America grew 1.0% in 2010.

Operating profit in North America decreased 11% in 2011 to $791, or 26.4% of Net sales. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was driven by a decrease in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales and by an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales. The decrease in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales was a result of lower pricing due to increased promotional investments and higher raw and packaging material costs reflecting global commodity cost increases, which were partially offset by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales increased due to higher overhead expenses, which were partially offset by lower advertising expenses as a percentage of Net sales. 

Operating profit in North America increased 5% in 2010 to $884, or 29.4% of Net sales. The increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was driven by a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales due to lower overhead expenses and advertising expenses as a percentage of Net sales. Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales was flat as higher raw and packaging material costs and increased promotional investments were fully offset by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives. 

Latin America

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales in Latin America increased 12.0% in 2011 to $4,778, driven by volume growth of 3.0%, net selling price increases of 7.0% and a positive foreign exchange impact of 2.0%. Organic sales in Latin America increased 11.5%. Excluding the impact of the divested detergent business in Colombia, volume increased 4.5% in 2011. Volume gains were led by Mexico, Brazil and Argentina. 

17

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Net sales in Latin America decreased 1.5% in 2010 to $4,261, as 2.0% volume growth and net selling price increases of 5.5% were more than offset by a 9.0% negative impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in Latin America grew 7.5% in 2010. 

While Operating profit in Latin America increased 9% in 2011 to $1,414, driven by strong sales growth, it decreased as a percentage of Net sales to 29.6%. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales which was partially offset by an increase in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales. The increase in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales was driven by higher pricing and cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives, partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs reflecting global commodity cost increases. The increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to higher overhead expenses and higher advertising investments supporting volume growth. 

Operating profit in Latin America decreased 5% in 2010 to $1,295, or 30.4% as a percentage of Net sales. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to a decrease in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales and an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales. The decrease in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales was driven by higher raw and packaging material costs, which were partially offset by higher pricing and cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives. The increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales was due to higher advertising spending and higher overhead expenses, partially offset by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives. 

Europe/South Pacific

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales in Europe/South Pacific increased 9.0% in 2011 to $3,508, as volume growth of 5.0% and the positive impact of foreign exchange of 7.0% were partially offset by net selling price decreases of 3.0%. The Sanex business contributed 4.0% to Europe/South Pacific sales and volume growth in 2011. Organic sales in Europe/South Pacific decreased by 2.0% as organic volume growth of 1.0% was more than offset by net selling price decreases of 3.0% in 2011. Volume gains were led by the United Kingdom, Spain, France, Denmark and the GABA business. 

Net sales in Europe/South Pacific decreased 1.5% in 2010 to $3,220 as volume growth of 2.0% was more than offset by net selling price decreases of 3.0% and a 0.5% negative impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in Europe/South Pacific declined 1.0% in 2010. 

Operating profit in Europe/South Pacific decreased 4% in 2011 to $715, or 20.4% of Net sales. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to a decrease in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales and an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales. The decrease in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to lower pricing and higher raw and packaging material costs reflecting global commodity cost increases, which were partially offset by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales increased due to higher overhead expenses and higher advertising investments. 

While Operating profit in Europe/South Pacific decreased 1% in 2010 to $742, it increased as a percentage of Net sales to 23.0%. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was driven by an increase in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales due to a continued focus on cost-saving initiatives, partially offset by increased promotional investments. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales remained flat as higher advertising spending as a percentage of Net sales was offset by a reduction of overhead expenses as a percentage of Net sales.

Greater Asia/Africa

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

18

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Net sales in Greater Asia/Africa increased 9.5% in 2011 to $3,281, driven by volume growth of 6.5%, net selling price increases of 1.0% and a 2.0% positive impact of foreign exchange. The Sanex business contributed 0.5% to Greater Asia/Africa sales and volume growth in 2011. Organic sales in Greater Asia/Africa grew 7.0% on organic volume growth of 6.0% in 2011. Volume gains were led by India, the Greater China region, Russia, and South Africa. 

Net sales in Greater Asia/Africa increased 13.0% in 2010 to $2,998 as volume growth of 10.5% and a 4.0% positive impact of foreign exchange were partially offset by net selling price decreases of 1.5%. Organic sales in Greater Asia/Africa grew 9.0% in 2010.

While Operating profit in Greater Asia/Africa increased 5% in 2011 to $807, driven by strong sales growth, it decreased as a percentage of Net sales to 24.6%. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to a decrease in Gross profit as a percentage to Net sales which was partially offset by a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales. The decrease in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to higher raw and packaging material costs reflecting global commodity cost increases, partially offset by higher pricing and cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales decreased due to lower advertising expenses and lower overhead expenses as a percentage of Net sales. 

Operating profit in Greater Asia/Africa increased 22% in 2010 to $767, or 25.6% as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to an increase in Gross profit as a percentage to Net sales which was partially offset by an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales. The increase in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to a continued focus on cost-saving initiatives, partially offset by increased promotional investments. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales increased due to higher advertising expenses, partially offset by a reduction of overhead expenses as a percentage of Net sales. 

Hill's Pet Nutrition

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales for Hill’s Pet Nutrition increased 4.5% in 2011 to $2,172. Net selling prices increased 1.5%, foreign exchange was positive 3.0% and volume was flat. Organic sales in Hill’s Pet Nutrition increased 1.5% in 2011. Volume gains, driven by Russia, South Africa, Brazil and Canada, were offset by volume declines in the United States and Japan. 

Net sales for Hill's Pet Nutrition decreased 2.5% in 2010 to $2,080, as 2.0% volume declines and 1.5% net selling price decreases were partially offset by a 1.0% positive impact of foreign exchange. Organic sales in Hill's Pet Nutrition declined 3.5% in 2010. 

While Operating profit in Hill’s Pet Nutrition was flat in 2011 at $560, it decreased as a percentage of Net sales to 25.8%. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to a decrease in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales, which was partially offset by a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales. The decrease in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to higher raw and packaging material costs reflecting global commodity cost increases and increased manufacturing overhead expenses due to increased investments in capacity, partially offset by cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives and higher pricing. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of Net sales due to lower advertising, partially offset by an increase in overhead expenses as a percentage of Net sales. 

Operating profit in Hill’s Pet Nutrition increased 1% in 2010 to $559, or 26.9% of Net sales. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to an increase in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales and a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales. The increase in Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales was due to lower raw and packaging material costs and cost savings from the Company’s funding-the-growth initiatives, partially offset by increased promotional investments. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased as a percentage of Net sales due to lower overhead and advertising expenses. 

Corporate

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

19

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Corporate operations include Corporate overhead costs, research and development costs, stock-based compensation expense related to stock options and restricted stock awards, restructuring and related implementation costs and gains and losses on sales of non-core product lines and assets. The components of Operating profit (loss) for the Corporate segment are presented below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

This Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses organic sales growth (Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions and divestments) (non-GAAP). Management believes this measure provides investors with useful supplemental information regarding the Company’s underlying sales trends by presenting sales growth excluding the external factor of foreign exchange, as well as the impact of acquisitions and divestments. A reconciliation of organic sales growth to Net sales growth for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 is provided below.

Worldwide Gross profit margin, Selling, general and administrative expenses, Operating profit, effective tax rate, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and earnings per share on a diluted basis are discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K both on a GAAP basis and excluding the impacts of the gains on the sales of non-core product lines, costs associated with various business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives, costs related to the sale of land in Mexico, a charge for a competition law matter in France related to a divested detergent business, the one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela, termination benefits and the gain related to the reorganization of an overseas subsidiary (non-GAAP). Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful supplemental information regarding the performance of the Company’s ongoing operations. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 is presented below. 

The Company uses the above financial measures internally in its budgeting process and as a factor in determining compensation. While the Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company’s business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.

The following table provides a quantitative reconciliation of organic sales growth to Net sales growth for each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 versus the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

20

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table provides a quantitative reconciliation of various (Non-GAAP) financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Includes a $46 pretax gain ($59 aftertax gain, $0.12 diluted earnings per share) related to the remeasurement of the Venezuelan balance sheet and lower taxes on accrued but unpaid remittances resulting from the currency devaluation in January 2010 and a $36 pretax loss ($2 aftertax gain) related to the remeasurement of the Venezuelan balance sheet and lower taxes on accrued but unpaid remittances resulting from the currency devaluation announced in December 2010.

2 Includes a gain related to a tax initiative involving the reorganization of an overseas subsidiary.

3 The impact of Non-GAAP adjustments on the basic and diluted earnings per share may not necessarily equal the difference between "As Reported (GAAP)" and "As Adjusted (Non-GAAP)" as a result of rounding.

21

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company expects cash flow from operations and debt issuances will be sufficient to meet foreseeable business operating and recurring cash needs (including for debt service, dividends, capital expenditures and stock repurchases). The Company believes its strong cash generation and financial position should continue to allow it broad access to global credit and capital markets.

Cash Flow

Net cash provided by operations in 2011 was $2,896 as compared with $3,211 in 2010 and $3,277 in 2009. The decrease in 2011 as compared to 2010 was primarily due to an increase in voluntary benefit plan contributions. The decrease in 2010 as compared to 2009 was due to increased working capital. 

The Company defines working capital as the difference between current assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, the latter of which is reported in Other current assets) and current liabilities (excluding short-term debt). The Company’s working capital increased to 0.7% of Net sales in 2011 as compared with 0.3% in 2010. The increase in working capital as a percentage of Net sales in 2011 versus 2010 was primarily due to higher levels of accounts receivable and inventories. Although higher in absolute dollars, accounts receivable and inventory levels were in line with prior year levels of days sales outstanding for receivables and months coverage of inventory. 

Investing activities used $1,213 in 2011, compared with $658 and $841 during 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase was primarily due to the purchase of the Sanex business for $966 which was funded with available cash, including the proceeds from the sale of the Company’s Euro-denominated investment portfolio, and the issuance of commercial paper, partially offset by the sale of the Company’s laundry detergent business in Colombia for $215. Additionally, in 2011, the Company’s Mexican subsidiary entered into an agreement to sell the Mexico City site on which its commercial operations, technology center and soap production facility are located. The sale price is payable in three installments, with the final installment due upon the transfer of the property, which is expected to occur in 2014. During 2011, the Company received the first installment of $24. Capital expenditures were $537, $550 and $575 for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Capital expenditures continue to focus primarily on projects that are expected to yield high aftertax returns. Capital expenditures for 2012 are expected to be at an annual rate of approximately 3.5% of Net sales.

Financing activities used $1,242 of cash during 2011 compared to $2,624 and $2,270 during 2010 and 2009. This difference was primarily due to higher net proceeds from the issuance of debt and a lower level of share repurchases. The increase in 2010 was primarily due to higher repurchases of common stock and dividends paid, partially offset by higher net proceeds from issuances of debt.

Long-term debt, including the current portion, increased to $4,776 as of December 31, 2011, as compared to $3,376 as of December 31, 2010, and total debt increased to $4,810 as of December 31, 2011, as compared to $3,424 as of December 31, 2010. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company issued $300 of U.S. dollar-denominated three-year notes at a fixed rate of 0.6%, $400 of U.S. dollar-denominated five-year notes at a fixed rate of 1.3% and $300 of U.S. dollar-denominated ten-year notes at a fixed rate of 2.45% under the Company’s shelf registration statement. Proceeds from the debt issuances were used to reduce commercial paper borrowings and to repay outstanding indebtedness under a €408 credit facility. During the second quarter of 2011, the Company issued $250 of U.S. dollar-denominated three-year notes at a fixed rate of 1.250% and $250 of U.S. dollar-denominated six-year notes at a fixed rate of 2.625% under the Company’s shelf registration statement. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company issued $250 of ten-year notes at a fixed rate of 2.95% and $188 of five-year notes at a fixed rate of 1.375% under the Company’s shelf registration statement. During the third quarter of 2009, the Company issued $300 of U.S. dollar-denominated six-year notes at a fixed rate of 3.15% under the Company’s shelf registration statement. Proceeds from the debt issuances in the second quarter of 2011, fourth quarter of 2010 and third quarter of 2009 were used to reduce commercial paper borrowings. 

At December 31, 2011, the Company had access to unused domestic and foreign lines of credit of $2,705 (including under the two facilities discussed below) and could also issue medium-term notes pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement. In November 2011, the Company entered into a new five-year revolving credit facility with a capacity of $1,850 with a syndicate of banks. The facility, which expires in November 2016, replaced an existing credit facility with a capacity of $1,600 which was due to expire in November 2012. The Company also has the ability to draw $145 from a revolving credit facility that expires in November 2012. Commitment fees related to credit facilities are not material.

Domestic and foreign commercial paper outstanding was $671 and $214 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The average daily balances outstanding for commercial paper in 2011 and 2010 were $1,497 and $1,146, respectively. The 

22

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

maximum daily balance outstanding for commercial paper during 2011 and 2010 was $1,897 and $1,628, respectively. The Company regularly classifies commercial paper and certain current maturities of notes payable as long-term debt as it has the intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term basis, including, if necessary, by utilizing its line of credit that expires in 2016.

Following is a summary of the Company’s commercial paper and global short-term borrowings as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain of the facilities with respect to the Company’s bank borrowings contain financial and other covenants as well as cross-default provisions. Noncompliance with these requirements could ultimately result in the acceleration of amounts owed. The Company is in full compliance with all such requirements and believes the likelihood of noncompliance is remote. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the Company’s long-term debt and credit facilities.

Dividend payments in 2011 were $1,203, an increase from $1,142 in 2010 and $981 in 2009. Common stock dividend payments increased to $2.27 per share in 2011 from $2.03 per share in 2010 and $1.72 per share in 2009. The Series B Preference stock dividend payments were $16.24 per share in 2010 and $13.76 per share in 2009. The Series B Preference Stock was converted to common stock on December 29, 2010. On February 24, 2011, the Company’s Board of Directors increased the quarterly common stock cash dividend to $0.58 per share, effective as of the second quarter 2011.

The Company repurchases shares of its common stock in the open market and in private transactions to maintain its targeted capital structure and to fulfill certain requirements of its compensation and benefit plans. On September 8, 2011 the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program (the 2011 Program) that replaced the Company’s previous share repurchase program which had been approved in 2010 (the 2010 Program). The 2011 Program authorizes the repurchase of up to 50 million shares of the Company’s common stock. The Board also has authorized share repurchases on an ongoing basis to fulfill certain requirements of the Company’s compensation and benefit programs.

Aggregate repurchases in 2011 consisted of 20.4 million common shares under both the 2011 Program and the 2010 Program, and 0.9 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $1,806. Aggregate repurchases in 2010 consisted of 24.4 million common shares under both the 2010 Program and the 2008 Program, and 1.0 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $2,020. Aggregate repurchases in 2009 consisted of 13.9 million common shares under the 2008 Program and 1.0 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $1,063.

The following represents the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

(1) Includes the net interest payments on fixed and variable rate debt and associated interest rate swaps. Interest payments associated with floating rate instruments are based on management’s best estimate of projected interest rates for the remaining term of variable rate debt.

(2) The Company had outstanding contractual obligations with suppliers at the end of 2011 for the purchase of raw, packaging and other materials and services in the normal course of business. These purchase obligation amounts represent only those items which are based on agreements that are legally binding and that specify minimum quantity, price and term and do not represent total anticipated purchases.

23

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

Long-term liabilities associated with the Company’s postretirement plans are excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty of the timing of these cash disbursements. The amount and timing of cash funding related to these benefit plans will generally depend on local regulatory requirements, various economic assumptions (the most significant of which are detailed in “Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates” below) and voluntary Company contributions. Based on current information, the Company does not anticipate having to make any mandatory contributions to its qualified U.S. pension plan until 2013. Management’s best estimate of voluntary contributions to the U.S. pension plans for the year ending December 31, 2012 is approximately $100. In addition, total benefit payments to be paid to participants for the year ending December 31, 2012 from the Company's assets is estimated to be approximately $87.

Additionally, liabilities for unrecognized income tax benefits are excluded from the table above as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of a settlement of such liabilities. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.

As more fully described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is contingently liable with respect to lawsuits, environmental matters, taxes and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company does not have off-balance sheet financing or unconsolidated special purpose entities.

Managing Foreign Currency, Interest Rate and Commodity Price Exposure

The Company is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price fluctuations. Volatility relating to these exposures is managed on a global basis by utilizing a number of techniques, including working capital management, selling price increases, selective borrowings in local currencies and entering into selective derivative instrument transactions, issued with standard features, in accordance with the Company’s treasury and risk management policies. The Company’s treasury and risk management policies prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes and leveraged derivatives for any purpose.

The sensitivity of our financial instruments to market fluctuations is discussed below. See Notes 2 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of derivatives and hedging policies and fair value measurements.

Foreign Exchange Risk

As the Company markets its products in over 200 countries and territories, it is exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing and selling its products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company manages its foreign currency exposures through a combination of cost-containment measures, selling price increases and the hedging of certain costs in an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements. See the “Results of Operations” section above for discussion of the foreign exchange impact on Net sales in each segment.

The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, other than those operating in highly inflationary environments, are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates with resulting translation gains and losses accumulated in a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Income and expense items are translated into U.S. dollars at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.

For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments (currently, Venezuela), inventories, prepaid expenses, goodwill and property, plant and equipment are remeasured at their historical exchange rates, while other assets and liabilities are remeasured at year-end exchange rates. Remeasurement adjustments for these operations are included in Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company.

The Company primarily utilizes foreign currency contracts, including forward, option and swap contracts, local currency deposits and local currency borrowings to hedge portions of its exposures relating to foreign currency purchases, assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business and the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. The duration of foreign currency contracts generally does not exceed 12 months and the contracts are valued using observable market rates.

24

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

The Company’s foreign currency forward contracts that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting resulted in net unrealized gains of $1 at December 31, 2011 and net unrealized losses of $3 at December 31, 2010. Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss) and are reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the underlying hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. At the end of 2011, an unfavorable 10% change in exchange rates would have resulted in a net unrealized loss of $42.

Interest Rate Risk

The Company manages its mix of fixed and floating rate debt against its target with debt issuances and by entering into interest rate swaps in order to mitigate fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may result from interest rate volatility. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt in all cases, and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates.

Based on year-end 2011 variable rate debt levels, a 1-percentage-point increase in interest rates would have increased Interest expense, net by $18 in 2011.

Commodity Price Risk

The Company is exposed to price volatility related to raw materials used in production, such as resins, tropical oils, essential oils, tallow, corn and soybeans. The Company manages its raw material exposures through a combination of cost containment measures, ongoing productivity initiatives and the limited use of commodity hedging contracts. Futures contracts are used on a limited basis, primarily in the Pet Nutrition segment, to manage volatility related to anticipated raw material inventory purchases of certain traded commodities.

The Company’s open commodity derivative contracts, which qualify for cash flow hedge accounting, resulted in net unrealized losses of $1 and net unrealized gains of $4 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At the end of 2011, an unfavorable 10% change in commodity futures prices would have increased the net unrealized loss to $3.

Credit Risk

The Company is exposed to the risk of credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to financial instrument contracts; however, nonperformance is considered unlikely and any nonperformance is unlikely to be material as it is the Company’s policy to contract with highly rated, diverse counterparties.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011-05, “Presentation of Comprehensive Income” ASU No. 2011-05 eliminates the current option to disclose other comprehensive income and its components in the statement of changes in equity. As permitted under ASU No. 2011-05, the Company has elected to present items of net income and other comprehensive income in two separate consecutive statements beginning in the first quarter of 2012. This standard will not have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements requires management to use judgment and make estimates. The level of uncertainty in estimates and assumptions increases with the length of time until the underlying transactions are completed. Actual results could ultimately differ from those estimates. The accounting policies that are most critical in the preparation of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements are those that are both important to the presentation of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations and require significant or complex judgments and estimates on the part of management. The Company’s critical accounting policies are reviewed periodically with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

In certain instances, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America allow for the selection of alternative accounting methods. The Company’s significant policies that involve the selection of alternative methods are accounting for shipping and handling costs and inventories.

▪Shipping and handling costs may be reported as either a component of cost of sales or selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company reports such costs, primarily related to warehousing and outbound freight, in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of Selling, general and administrative expenses. Accordingly, the Company’s gross profit margin is not comparable with the gross profit margin of those companies that include shipping and handling charges in cost of sales. If such costs had been included in cost of sales, gross profit margin as a 

25

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

percent of sales would have decreased by 750 bps, from 57.3% to 49.8% in 2011 and decreased by 730 bps in 2010 and 2009, with no impact on reported earnings.

▪The Company accounts for inventories using both the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method (80% of inventories) and the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method (20% of inventories). There would have been no material impact on reported earnings for 2011, 2010 and 2009 had all inventories been accounted for under the FIFO method.

The areas of accounting that involve significant or complex judgments and estimates are pensions and other postretirement benefits, stock options, asset impairments, uncertain tax positions, tax valuation allowances and legal and other contingencies.

▪In pension accounting, the most significant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate for U.S. defined benefit plans was 4.90%, 5.30% and 5.75% as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The discount rate for other U.S. postretirement plans was 5.26%, 5.30% and 5.75% as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Discount rates used for the U.S. defined benefit and other postretirement plans are based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high-quality bonds for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximate the estimated payouts of the U.S. plans. For the Company’s international plans, the discount rates are set by benchmarking against investment-grade corporate bonds rated AA. The assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets for U.S. plans was 7.75% as of December 31, 2011 and 8.00% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. In determining the long-term rate of return, the Company considers the nature of the plans’ investments, an expectation for the plans’ investment strategies and the historical rate of return.

Average annual rates of return for the U.S. plans for the most recent 1-year, 5-year, 10-year, 15-year and 25-year periods were 3%, 3%, 6%, 7%, and 8%, respectively. In addition, the current rate of return assumption for the U.S. plans is based upon a targeted asset allocation of approximately 40% in fixed income securities, 52% in equity securities and 8% in real estate and alternative investments. A 1% change in the assumed rate of return on plan assets of the U.S. pension plans would impact future Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by approximately $9. A 1% change in the discount rate for the U.S. pension plans would impact future Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by approximately $5. A third assumption is the long-term rate of compensation increase, a change in which would partially offset the impact of a change in either the discount rate or the long-term rate of return. This rate was 4.0% as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s pension and other postretirement plans.

▪The assumption requiring the most judgment in accounting for other postretirement benefits is the medical cost trend rate. The Company reviews external data and its own historical trends for health care costs to determine the medical cost trend rate. The assumed rate of increase is 8.0% for 2012, declining to 5.0% by 2018 and remaining at 5.0% for the years thereafter. The effect of a 1% increase in the assumed long-term medical cost trend rate would decrease Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by $5.

▪The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, such as stock options and restricted stock, based on the fair value of those awards at the date of grant. The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton (Black-Scholes) option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock-option awards. The weighted-average estimated fair value of each stock option granted for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $11.93. The Black-Scholes model uses various assumptions to determine the fair value of options. These assumptions include the expected term of options, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield. While these assumptions do not require significant judgment, as the significant inputs are determined from historical experience or independent third-party sources, changes in these inputs could result in significant changes in fair value. A one-year change in term would result in a change in fair value of approximately 7%. A one percent change in volatility would change fair value by approximately 6%.

▪The asset impairment analysis performed for goodwill and intangible assets requires several estimates, including future cash flows, growth rates and the selection of a discount rate. Except for the intangible assets acquired in the recent Sanex acquisition, the estimated fair value of the Company’s intangible assets substantially exceeds the recorded book value. The estimated fair value of the Company’s reporting units also substantially exceeds the recorded book value. Therefore, it is not reasonably likely that significant changes in these estimates would occur that would result in an impairment charge related to these assets. 

▪The recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions involves consideration of the amounts and probabilities of various outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate resolution.

26

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts)

▪Tax valuation allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets such as tax loss carryforwards, to net realizable value. Factors considered in estimating net realizable value include historical results by tax jurisdiction, carryforward periods, income tax strategies and forecasted taxable income.

▪Legal and other contingency reserves are based on management’s assessment of the risk of potential loss, which includes consultation with outside legal counsel and advisors. Such assessments are reviewed each period and revised, based on current facts and circumstances, if necessary. While it is possible that the Company’s cash flows and results of operations in a particular quarter or year could be materially affected by the impact of such contingencies, it is the opinion of management that these matters will not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position, or its ongoing results of operations or cash flows. Refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company’s contingencies.

The Company generates revenue through the sale of well-known consumer products to trade customers under established trading terms. While the recognition of revenue and receivables requires the use of estimates, there is a short time frame (typically less than 60 days) between the shipment of product and cash receipt, thereby reducing the level of uncertainty in these estimates. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further description of the Company’s significant accounting policies.

Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the SEC in its rules, regulations and releases. Such statements may relate, for example, to sales or volume growth, organic sales growth, profit or profit margin growth, earnings growth, financial goals, the impact of currency devaluations and exchange and price controls, including in Venezuela, cost-reduction plans, tax rates, new product introductions or commercial investment levels, among other matters. These statements are made on the basis of the Company’s views and assumptions as of this time and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements. Moreover, the Company does not, nor does any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of those statements. The Company cautions investors that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual events or results may differ materially from those statements. Actual events or results may differ materially because of factors that affect international businesses and global economic conditions, as well as matters specific to us and the markets we serve, including the uncertain economic environment in different countries and its effect on consumer spending habits, increased competition and evolving competitive practices, currency rate fluctuations, exchange and price controls, changes in foreign or domestic laws or regulations or their interpretation, political and fiscal developments, the availability and cost of raw and packaging materials, our ability to maintain or increase selling prices as needed, changes in the policies of retail trade customers and our ability to continue lowering costs. For information about these and other factors that could impact our business and cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, refer to Item 1A, “Risk Factors”.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK