Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

This annual report on Form 10-K, including the following management’s discussion and analysis, contains forward-looking information that you should read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements that we have included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K. For this purpose, any statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “will” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from the plans, intentions or expectations we disclose in the forward-looking statements we make. We have included important factors above under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A above that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements we make. We are not obligated to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Overview  

We are a leading provider of technology, services and solutions to the diagnostics, academic research, environmental monitoring and safety and security markets. We design, manufacture, market and service components, systems and products in two reporting segments:  

   •    Life and Analytical Sciences. We are a leading provider of analysis tools, including instruments, reagents, software, and consumables, to the analytical sciences, genetic screening, bio-discovery and laboratory services markets.  

   •    Optoelectronics. We provide a broad range of medical imaging, optical sensor and specialty lighting components used in medical, consumer products and other specialty end markets.  

We recently announced a new alignment of our businesses effective for fiscal year 2009 that will allow us to prioritize our capabilities on two key strategic areas – Human Health and Environmental Health. Our new Human Health segment concentrates on developing diagnostics, tools and applications to detect disease earlier and more accurately and to accelerate the discovery and development of critical new therapies. The Human Health segment includes our products and services that address the genetic screening and bio-discovery markets, formerly in our Life and Analytical Sciences segment, and our technology serving the medical imaging market, formerly in our Optoelectronics segment. Our new Environmental Health segment provides technologies and applications to facilitate the creation of safer products, more secure surroundings and efficient energy resources. The Environmental Health segment includes our products and services that address the analytical sciences and laboratory service and support markets, formerly in our Life and Analytical Sciences segment, and our technology designed for the sensors and lighting markets, formerly in our Optoelectronics segment.  

Accounting Period  

Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest December 31. We report fiscal years under a 52/53 week format. Under this method, certain years will contain 53 weeks. The fiscal years ended December 28, 2008, December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006 each included 52 weeks. The fiscal year ended January 3, 2010 will include 53 weeks.  

Consolidated Results of Continuing Operations  

Sales  

2008 Compared to 2007. Sales for fiscal year 2008 were $1,937.5 million, as compared to $1,702.4 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $235.1 million, or 14%, which includes an approximate 2% increase in sales attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates and an approximate 4% increase from acquisitions. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment sales for fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and acquisitions. The total increase in sales reflects a $197.0 million, or 15%, increase in our Life and Analytical Sciences segment sales, due to increases in sales to genetic screening customers of $91.0 million, sales to analytical sciences customers of $36.9 million, sales to laboratory service customers of $36.8 million, and sales to bio-discovery customers of $32.5 million. Our Optoelectronics segment sales grew $38.1 million, or 10%, primarily due to increases in sales of our medical imaging products of $24.6 million, specialty lighting products of $7.2 million, and optical sensors of $5.4 million.  

2007 Compared to 2006. Sales for fiscal year 2007 were $1,702.4 million, as compared to $1,477.7 million for fiscal year 2006, an increase of $224.7 million, or 15%. Changes in foreign exchange and acquisitions each contributed approximately 4% to the increase in revenue for fiscal year 2007, as compared to fiscal year 2006. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares segment sales for fiscal year 2007 as compared to fiscal year 2006 and includes the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations and acquisitions. The total increase in sales reflects a $186.4 million, or 17%, increase in our Life and Analytical Sciences segment sales, due to increases in   

34  

Table of Contents 

 sales to laboratory service customers of $51.3 million, sales to analytical sciences customers of $51.2 million, sales to genetic screening customers of $49.1 million, and sales to bio-discovery customers of $34.9 million. Our Optoelectronics segment sales grew $38.3 million, or 11%, primarily due to increases in sales of our medical imaging products of $29.3 million, specialty lighting products of $4.1 million, and optical sensors of $4.8 million.  

Cost of Sales  

2008 Compared to 2007. Cost of sales for fiscal year 2008 was $1,107.4 million, as compared to $996.4 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of approximately $111.0 million, or 11%. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales decreased to 57.2% in fiscal year 2008 from 58.5% in fiscal year 2007, resulting in an increase in gross margin of 137 basis points to 42.8% in fiscal year 2008 from 41.5% in fiscal year 2007. Amortization of intangible assets increased due to the acquisitions completed in fiscal years 2008 and 2007 and was $37.4 million for fiscal year 2008 as compared to $34.4 million for fiscal year 2007. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2007 was approximately $2.5 million for fiscal year 2007. Stock option expense was $1.7 million and $1.2 million for fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. The combined favorable impact of increased sales volume, productivity improvements, and growth in higher gross margin products such as ViaCord® increased gross margin; however, this increase was partially offset by increased freight costs.  

2007 Compared to 2006. Cost of sales for fiscal year 2007 was $996.4 million, as compared to $868.9 million for fiscal year 2006, an increase of approximately $127.4 million, or 15%. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales decreased to 58.5% in fiscal year 2007 from 58.8% in fiscal year 2006, resulting in an increase in gross margin of 27 basis points to 41.5% in fiscal year 2007 from 41.2% in fiscal year 2006. Amortization of intangible assets increased due to the acquisitions completed in fiscal years 2007 and 2006 and was $34.4 million for fiscal year 2007 as compared to $29.2 million for fiscal year 2006. The amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2007 was approximately $2.5 million for fiscal year 2007. Stock option expense was $1.2 million and $1.3 million for fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. The combined impact of net productivity and capacity improvements within both segments increased gross margin, which was partially offset by pressures in our laboratory services business as a result of entering into several large new contracts requiring an increase in start-up investment in the first six months of fiscal year 2007.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses   

2008 Compared to 2007. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2008 were $522.9 million as compared to $439.8 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of approximately $83.1 million, or 19%. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 27.0% in fiscal year 2008, compared to 25.8% in fiscal year 2007, an increase of 1.2%. Amortization of intangible assets was $16.1 million for fiscal year 2008 as compared to $7.9 million for fiscal year 2007. Stock option expense was $8.2 million and $7.3 million for fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. This increase was primarily the result of increased sales and marketing expenses to support recent acquisitions, particularly the acquisition of ViaCell, increased employee-related expenses to support our sales initiatives, and foreign exchange.  

2007 Compared to 2006. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2007 were $439.8 million as compared to $370.5 million for fiscal year 2006, an increase of approximately $69.3 million, or 19%. As a percentage of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses were 25.8% in fiscal year 2007, compared to 25.1% in fiscal year 2006, an increase of 0.7%. Amortization of intangible assets was $7.9 million for fiscal year 2007 as compared to $3.0 million for fiscal year 2006. Stock option expense was $7.3 million and $7.2 million for fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. This increase was primarily the result of increased headcount and employee-related expenses to support our sales initiatives, increased sales and marketing expenses to support recent acquisitions, business development expenses, and foreign exchange.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Research and Development Expenses  

2008 Compared to 2007. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2008 were $108.1 million, as compared to $104.0 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $4.1 million, or 4%. As a percentage of sales, research and development expenses decreased to 5.6% in fiscal year 2008 from 6.1% in fiscal year 2007. Amortization of intangible assets was $2.1 million for fiscal year 2008 as compared to $1.7 million for fiscal year 2007. Research and development expenses also included stock option expense of $0.6 million each for fiscal years 2008 and 2007. We directed research and development efforts similarly during fiscal years 2008 and 2007, primarily toward genetic screening, bio-discovery, and analytical sciences markets within our Life and Analytical Sciences segment, and medical imaging and photonics markets within our Optoelectronics segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives.  

2007 Compared to 2006. Research and development expenses for fiscal year 2007 were $104.0 million, as compared to $93.4 million for fiscal year 2006, an increase of $10.5 million, or 11%. As a percentage of sales, research and development expenses decreased to 6.1% in fiscal year 2007 from 6.3% in fiscal year 2006. Amortization of intangible assets was $1.7 million for fiscal year 2007 as compared to $1.6 million for fiscal year 2006. Research and development expenses also included stock option expense of $0.6 million and $0.7 million for fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. We directed our research and development efforts similarly during fiscal years 2007 and 2006, primarily toward genetic screening, bio-discovery, and analytical sciences markets within our Life and Analytical Sciences segment, and medical imaging and photonics markets within our Optoelectronics segment, in order to help accelerate our growth initiatives.  

Restructuring and Lease Charges (Reversals), Net  

We have undertaken a series of restructuring actions related to the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and the integration of our business units. Restructuring actions were recorded in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities” (“SFAS No. 146”). Restructuring and lease charges, net, for fiscal year 2008 were a $6.2 million charge, as compared to a $12.2 million charge for fiscal year 2007.  

The following table summarizes our restructuring accrual balances and related activity by restructuring plan during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

36  

Table of Contents 

The purpose of the restructuring plans approved in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008 and fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, detailed below, was principally to shift resources into geographic regions and product lines that are more consistent with our growth strategy. The pre-tax restructuring activities associated with these plans have been reported as restructuring expenses as a component of operating expenses from continuing operations. We expect the impact of immediate and future cost savings from these restructuring activities on operating results and cash flows to be negligible, as we have incurred and will incur offsetting costs.  

Q3 2008 Plan  

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, our management approved a plan to shift resources into product lines that are more consistent with our growth strategy (the “Q3 2008 Plan”). As a result of the Q3 2008 Plan, we recognized a $7.5 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Life and Analytical Sciences segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities and the closure of excess facilities. We also recognized a $0.3 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Optoelectronics segment related to a workforce reduction from reorganization activities.  

As part of our Q3 2008 Plan, we reduced headcount by 107 employees. All actions related to the Q3 2008 Plan were completed by September 28, 2008. All employees have been severed and we anticipate that the remaining payments of $2.7 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. We also anticipate that the remaining payments of $1.2 million for the closure of the excess facilities will be paid through fiscal year 2011, in accordance with the terms of the applicable leases.  

The following table summarizes the components of the Q3 2008 Plan activity recognized by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Q4 2007 Plan  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, our management approved a plan to shift resources into geographic regions and product lines that are more consistent with our growth strategy (the “Q4 2007 Plan”). As a result of the Q4 2007 Plan, we recognized a $4.8 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Life and Analytical Sciences segment related to a workforce reduction from these reorganization activities. We also recognized a $0.5 million pre-tax restructuring charge in our Optoelectronics segment related to a workforce reduction.  

As part of our Q4 2007 Plan, we reduced headcount by 90 employees. All actions related to the Q4 2007 Plan were completed by December 30, 2007. During fiscal year 2008, we recorded a reversal of $0.3 million primarily due to lower than expected employee separation costs associated with our Life and Analytical Sciences segment. All employees have been severed and we anticipate that the remaining payments of $0.6 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009.  

The following table summarizes the components of the Q4 2007 Plan activity recognized by segment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

37  

Table of Contents 

ViaCell Plan  

Following the ViaCell acquisition, we committed to a preliminary plan of integration of certain ViaCell activities that included workforce reductions and the partial closure of an excess facility (the “ViaCell Plan”). We finalized the integration plan and all actions related to this plan as of June 29, 2008, through which we recorded a $1.9 million liability for severance and the partial closure of an excess facility with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 95-3, “Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination” (“EITF 95-3”). As part of our ViaCell Plan, we reduced headcount by 11 employees. All employees have been severed and we anticipate that the remaining payments of approximately $0.2 million for workforce reductions will be completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2009.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Previous Restructuring and Integration Plans  

The principal actions of the restructuring and integration plans from the fiscal years 2001 through the first quarter of fiscal year 2007 were workforce reductions related to the integration of our Life Sciences and Analytical Instruments businesses, which is now our Life and Analytical Sciences segment, in order to reduce costs and achieve operational efficiencies as well as workforce reductions in both our Life and Analytical Sciences and Optoelectronics segments by shifting resources into geographic regions and product lines that are more consistent with our growth strategy. During fiscal year 2008, we paid $0.8 million related to these plans and recorded a reversal of $1.0 million related to lower than expected costs associated with severance for several of these plans. As of December 28, 2008, we had approximately $1.3 million of remaining liabilities associated with restructuring and integration plans, primarily relating to remaining lease obligations related to those closed facilities in our Life and Analytical Sciences segment. The remaining terms of these leases vary in length and will be paid through fiscal year 2011.  

Lease Charges  

To facilitate the sale of a business in fiscal year 2001, we were required to guarantee the obligations that the buyer of the business assumed related to the lease for the building in which the business operates. The lease obligations continue through March 2011. While we assigned our interest in the lease to the buyer at the time of the sale of the business, in the event the buyer defaults under the lease, we are responsible for all remaining lease payments and certain other building related expenses. As an additional measure to facilitate the sale of the business, we obtained a letter of credit as partial security for a loan to the buyer, which could have been drawn upon by the buyer’s lender in the event the buyer was delinquent in repayment of the loan. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, the lessor of the building began the process to evict the buyer as a result of unpaid lease payments and building expenses and sought reimbursement from us. As a result of this action, we recorded a charge of $4.5 million related to payments for this lease obligation and the potential drawdown of the letter of credit. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, the buyer completed a recapitalization of the business with another lender. The proceeds of the recapitalization were used to pay off the remaining balance on the original securitized loan, as well as to make certain payments to the landlord for back rent and other obligations arising under the lease. We were also released from our obligation under the letter of credit on the original securitized loan. As a result of these actions, we recorded a reversal of $1.4 million related to payments for this lease obligation and the release of the letter of credit in the third quarter of fiscal year 2007. The buyer made its required payments for lease obligations and building expenses through June 2008 and as a result, we recorded an additional reversal of $0.4 million.  

38  

Table of Contents 

The buyer filed for bankruptcy protection on October 27, 2008 and was delinquent in making both its lease payments and payments for certain building expenses in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2008, requiring us to make payments of $0.4 million during fiscal year 2008 and $0.4 million to date in fiscal year 2009. As of December 28, 2008, we are still responsible for the remaining accrual of $2.4 million, which relates to the remaining lease and building obligations through March 2011, reduced by estimated sublease rentals reasonably expected to be obtained for the property.  

Gains on Settlement of Insurance Claim  

2008 Compared to 2007. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2007 we settled an insurance claim resulting from a fire that occurred within our Life and Analytical Sciences facility in Boston, Massachusetts in March 2005. As a result of that settlement, we recorded gains of $15.3 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2007. We received the final settlement payment of $21.5 million in June 2007, and had previously received during fiscal years 2005 and 2006 a total of $35.0 million in advance payments towards costs incurred, and for building, inventory and equipment damages. Of the $56.5 million in total settlement proceeds received by us, $25.6 million related to reimbursement of costs incurred; $23.7 million related to damages to the building, inventory and equipment; and $7.2 million related to business interruption costs which were recorded as reductions to cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses. We accrued $9.7 million representing our management’s estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters. We paid $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building. We anticipate that the remaining payments of $4.2 million will be completed by the third quarter of fiscal year 2009.  

2007 Compared to 2006. There were no gains on settlement of insurance claim in fiscal year 2006.  

Impairment of Assets  

2008 Compared to 2007. Impairment of assets was zero in fiscal years 2008 and 2007.  

2007 Compared to 2006. Impairment of assets was zero in fiscal year 2007 and $3.2 million in fiscal year 2006. The fiscal year 2006 impairment was recorded within the Life and Analytical Sciences segment, which included a $2.8 million loss related to a manufacturing facility and a $0.4 million loss on impairment of a license agreement.  

Gains on Dispositions  

2008 Compared to 2007. There were no dispositions in fiscal years 2008 and 2007.  

2007 Compared to 2006. There were no dispositions in fiscal year 2007 and dispositions resulted in a gain of $1.5 million in fiscal year 2006. Gains on dispositions in fiscal year 2006 included a $0.6 million gain from an insurance reimbursement due to fire damage in a certain manufacturing facility and a $0.9 million gain on disposal of certain fixed assets.  

In-process Research and Development Charge  

2008 Compared to 2007. We did not have an in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) charge in fiscal year 2008. The IPR&D charge for fiscal year 2007 was $1.5 million, which related to the acquisitions of Evotec Technologies GmbH and Euroscreen Products S.A. in January 2007. In determining the value of the in-process projects, we considered, among other factors, the in-process projects’ stage of completion, the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date, the costs already incurred, the projected costs to complete, the contribution of core technologies and other acquired assets, the expected introduction date, and the estimated useful life of the technology. We utilized the discounted cash flow method to value the IPR&D, using a discount rate equivalent to the relative risk of the asset, including the uncertainty of technological feasibility and successful launch. This approach determines fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to an   

39  

Table of Contents 

 in-process project over its useful life, and then discounting these after-tax cash flows back to a present value. We believe that the estimated purchased research and development amounts so determined, represent the fair value of each project at the acquisition date, and the amount represents management’s best estimate of the amount a third party would pay for the projects.  

2007 Compared to 2006. We did not have an IPR&D charge in fiscal year 2006.  

Interest and Other Expense, Net  

Interest and other expense, net consisted of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2008 Compared to 2007. Interest and other expense, net for fiscal year 2008 was $45.6 million, as compared to $16.9 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $28.7 million. The increase in interest and other expense, net, in fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007 was primarily due to the discontinuance and settlement of forward interest rate contracts with $17.5 million of accumulated derivative losses which were recognized into interest expense and higher outstanding debt balances, primarily related to the purchase of ViaCell, which was partially offset by lower interest rates on those outstanding debt balances. Interest income decreased $0.7 million as a result of lower interest rates, which were partially offset by higher cash balances. Other expenses for fiscal year 2008 as compared to fiscal year 2007 increased by $1.2 million, and consisted primarily of expenses related to foreign currency translation. A more complete discussion of our liquidity is set forth below under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”  

2007 Compared to 2006. Interest and other expense, net for fiscal year 2007 was $16.9 million, as compared to $2.7 million for fiscal year 2006, an increase of $14.2 million. The increase in interest and other expense, net, in fiscal year 2007 as compared to fiscal year 2006 was primarily due to the higher outstanding debt balances, as well as lower outstanding cash balances. Interest income decreased $4.7 million due to lower overall cash balances, and interest expense increased $6.2 million due to higher outstanding debt balances. We also recognized a net gain on dispositions of investments of $0.7 million associated with the dissolution of certain investments. Other expenses for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 increased by $1.7 million, and consisted primarily of expenses related to foreign currency translation and business development related costs.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

2008 Compared to 2007. The fiscal year 2008 provision for income taxes from continuing operations was $21.2 million, as compared to a provision of $16.3 million for fiscal year 2007. The effective tax rate from continuing operations was 14.4% for fiscal year 2008 as compared to 11.1% for fiscal year 2007. The higher effective tax rate in fiscal year 2008 was primarily due to the favorable settlement of an income tax audit in fiscal year 2007.  

In October 2008, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2008 (the “2008 Tax Act”) was enacted. The 2008 Tax Act retroactively restored the expired research and experimental tax credit provisions of the law from December 31, 2007, and extended the credit through December 31, 2009. As a result of the 2008 Tax Act, we recorded a benefit for the research and experimental tax credit in fiscal year 2008 in the amount of $0.8 million.  

40  

Table of Contents 

2007 Compared to 2006. The fiscal year 2007 provision for income taxes from continuing operations was $16.3 million, as compared to a provision of $30.2 million for fiscal year 2006. The effective tax rate from continuing operations was 11.1% for fiscal year 2007 as compared to 20.9% for fiscal year 2006. The lower effective tax rate in fiscal year 2007 was primarily due to the favorable settlement of an income tax audit partially offset by (i) the non-deductible IPR&D charge of $1.5 million recorded in fiscal year 2007; (ii) the discrete accrual of interest expense as a result of the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation (“FIN”) No. 48 in fiscal year 2007; (iii) the accrual of U.S. taxes on the $15.3 million gains on the settlement of an insurance claim for fiscal year 2007; and (iv) changes in our forecasted geographic distribution of earnings.  

In December 2006, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006 (the “2006 Tax Act”) was enacted. The 2006 Tax Act retroactively restored the expired research and experimental tax credit provisions of the law from December 31, 2006, and extended the credit through December 31, 2007. As a result of the 2006 Tax Act, we recorded a benefit for the research and experimental tax credit in fiscal year 2006 in the amount of $1.6 million.  

Discontinued Operations  

As part of our continued efforts to focus on higher growth opportunities, we have discontinued certain businesses. We have accounted for these businesses as discontinued operations in accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” and, accordingly, have presented the results of operations and related cash flows as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of these businesses have been presented separately and are reflected within the assets and liabilities from discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007.  

We recorded the following gains and losses, which have been reported as the (loss) gain on disposition of discontinued operations during the three years ended:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As part of the new strategic business alignment into the Human Health and Environmental Health segments and our continued efforts to focus on higher growth opportunities, in December 2008 our management approved separate plans to divest our Photonics and Photoflash businesses within our Optoelectronics segment. Our Photonics and Photoflash products and technologies include xenon flashtubes and intense pulsed light. These products are used in a variety of applications including mobile phones and laser machine tools. We are actively marketing and are currently committed to a plan to sell both of these businesses.  

In addition, during December 2008, our management approved the shut down of certain instrument businesses within our Life and Analytical Sciences segment: Cellular Screening Fluorescence and Luminescence workstations, Analytical Proteomics Instruments, and Proteomics and Genomics Instruments. The Cellular Fluorescence and Luminescence workstations business included products focused on cellular imaging for kinetic   

41  

Table of Contents 

 and glow luminescence assays. The Analytical Proteomics Instruments business and the Proteomics and Genomics Instruments businesses included products for bioimaging, mass spectrometers for protein identification, high resolution multi-color fluorescence gel imagers, spot detection and spot excision instruments, as well as laser scanners for slide based microarray image analysis. We continue to serve the Cellular Screening, Proteomics and Genomics consumable and reagents markets. The shut down of the Cellular Screening Fluorescence and Luminescence workstations business, Analytical Proteomics Instruments business, and Proteomics and Genomics Instruments business in December 2008 resulted in a $4.8 million loss related to lease and severance costs and the reduction of fixed assets and inventory to net realizable value.  

Following the ViaCell acquisition, our Board approved a plan to sell the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses that were acquired with ViaCell. The ViaCyteSM business focused on the development of a proprietary media intended for the cryopreservation of human unfertilized oocytes. The Cellular Therapy Technology business focused on the development and sale of unrestricted somatic stem cell products which are derived from umbilical cord blood. We determined that both businesses do not strategically fit with the other products offered by our Life and Analytical Sciences segment. We also determined that without investing capital into the operations of both businesses, we could not effectively compete with larger companies that focus on the market for such products. After careful consideration, we decided in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008 to shut down the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses, recording a pre-tax loss of $8.0 million for severance and facility closure costs.  

During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we settled various income tax audits worldwide for years ranging from 1998 through 2005 as discussed in Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The closing of these audits resulted in the recognition of $8.5 million of income tax benefits in discontinued operations. 

During fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, we settled various commitments related to the divestiture of other discontinued operations and recognized a pre-tax loss of $0.4 million in fiscal year 2008, a pre-tax loss of $1.0 million in fiscal year 2007 and a pre-tax gain of $3.3 million in fiscal year 2006. During fiscal years 2007 and 2006, we substantially completed the remediation of an environmental matter within the Lithography business, resulting in recognition of pre-tax losses of $0.7 million in fiscal year 2007 and $1.7 million in fiscal year 2006. In February 2006, we sold substantially all of the assets of our Semiconductor business for approximately $26.5 million, subject to a net working capital adjustment, plus potential additional contingent consideration. A pre-tax gain of $3.8 million, exclusive of additional contingent consideration, was recognized in fiscal year 2006.  

Summary operating results of the discontinued operations for the periods prior to disposition were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

42  

Table of Contents 

Acquisitions  

Acquisition of Opto Technology Inc. In January 2009, we acquired the outstanding stock of Opto Technology Inc. (“Opto Technology”). Opto Technology is a supplier of light-emitting diode based lighting components and subsystems. We expect this acquisition to expand our portfolio of high brightness LED components by adding optical subsystems to provide energy efficient solid state lighting solutions to original equipment manufacturers. We paid the shareholders of Opto Technology approximately $21.0 million in cash for this transaction plus a potential of $8.0 million in additional contingent consideration. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets will be allocated to goodwill, none of which will be tax deductible. We expect to report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Environmental Health segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of Arnel, Inc. In December 2008, we acquired the outstanding stock of Arnel, Inc. (“Arnel”). Arnel provides custom engineered solutions for gas chromatography applications in the petrochemical, food and beverage, and industrial hygiene markets. We expect this acquisition to expand our chromatography portfolio and strengthen our application-focused products to better serve the biofuels and hydrocarbon processing industries. We paid the shareholders of Arnel approximately $2.0 million in cash for this transaction plus potential additional contingent consideration, which we expect to be immaterial to us. We determined that $0.5 million of the contingent consideration was probable and recorded the accrual at the date of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Life and Analytical Sciences segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of VaConics Lighting, Inc. In May 2008, we acquired specified assets and assumed specified liabilities of VaConics Lighting, Inc. (“VaConics”), a leading provider of custom and standard ceramic Xenon arc lamps. We expect this acquisition to expand our Xenon lighting technology by increasing our offerings of lamp products that include medical endoscopes, surgical headlamps, forensic analyses, video projectors, searchlights, and infrared lighting. We paid approximately $3.9 million in cash for this transaction. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, we paid VaConics approximately $0.1 million of additional consideration for net working capital adjustments. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, all of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Optoelectronics segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of LabMetrix Technologies S.A. In March 2008, we acquired all of the stock of LabMetrix Technologies S.A. (“LabMetrix”) and acquired specified assets and assumed specified liabilities of LabMetrix Technologies Ltd. and LabMetrix Technologies, Inc., a provider of metrology-based multi-vendor analytical instrument qualification solutions. We expect this acquisition to add technology, tools, processes and compliance expertise to our suite of OneSource® laboratory services by strengthening our support of customers in a wide range of industries including the pharmaceutical, medical device, food, toy and other consumer goods industries. We paid the shareholders of LabMetrix approximately $4.3 million in cash for this transaction plus potential additional contingent consideration. We determined that $1.9 million of the contingent consideration was probable and recorded the accrual at the date of acquisition. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we received approximately $0.1 million from the former shareholders of LabMetrix for net working capital adjustments. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill. None of the goodwill related to the LabMetrix acquisition is tax deductible and all of the goodwill related to the LabMetrix Technologies Ltd. and LabMetrix Technologies, Inc. acquisitions is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Life and Analytical Sciences segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of Newborn Metabolic Screening Business from Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. In February 2008, we acquired the outstanding stock of Pediatrix Screening, Inc., which constituted the newborn metabolic screening business of Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc., and is now known as PerkinElmer Genetics, Inc. (“PKI Genetics”). PKI Genetics provides neonatal screening and consultative services to hospitals, medical groups and   

43  

Table of Contents 

 various states. We expect this acquisition to expand our capabilities to supply state laboratories and other agencies with comprehensive newborn screening solutions. We initially paid Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. approximately $66.3 million in cash for this transaction. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, we received approximately $0.3 million from Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. for net working capital adjustments. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we paid approximately $2.3 million to Pediatrix Medical Group, Inc. as additional purchase price for the election to treat the acquisition as a deemed asset sale. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, all of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Life and Analytical Sciences segment from the acquisition date.  

Acquisition of ViaCell, Inc. In November 2007, we completed a tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of ViaCell, Inc. (“ViaCell”), at a price of $7.25 per share. ViaCell specializes in the collection, testing, processing and preservation of umbilical cord blood stem cells. The addition of ViaCell’s ViaCord® product offering for the preservation of umbilical cord blood, and its sales and marketing organization, has facilitated the expansion of our neonatal and prenatal businesses. We paid approximately $295.8 million in cash in the aggregate for this transaction, which excludes $31.8 million in acquired cash. In January 2009, we received approximately $1.8 million for the majority of the unclaimed shares of ViaCell. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Life and Analytical Sciences segment from the acquisition date.  

Following the ViaCell acquisition, we committed to a preliminary plan of integration of certain ViaCell activities that included workforce reductions and the partial closure of an excess facility. We finalized the integration plan and all actions related to this plan as of June 29, 2008, through which we recorded a $1.9 million liability for severance and the partial closure of an excess facility with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill in accordance with EITF No. 95-3.  

Following the ViaCell acquisition, our Board approved a plan to sell the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses that were acquired with ViaCell. The ViaCyteSM business focused on the development of a proprietary media intended for the cryopreservation of human unfertilized oocytes. The Cellular Therapy Technology business focused on the development and sale of unrestricted somatic stem cell products which are derived from umbilical cord blood. We determined that both businesses did not strategically fit with the other products offered by our Life and Analytical Sciences segment. We also determined that without investing capital into the operations of both businesses, we could not effectively compete with larger companies that focus on the market for such products. After careful consideration, we decided in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008 to close the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses, recording a pre-tax loss of $8.0 million for severance and facility closure costs. We have classified the results and closure of the ViaCyteSM and Cellular Therapy Technology businesses as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional details.  

Various Intangible Assets and Investments. In fiscal year 2007, we acquired various licenses, other intangible assets and investments for aggregate consideration of approximately $8.8 million in cash. Included in this amount are a customer list for reagents for approximately $4.8 million and a call option for approximately $1.2 million to purchase the assets and liabilities of a company, each purchased during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. In addition, we entered into various long-term license agreements during fiscal year 2007 for approximately $2.8 million. Purchased intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives based upon the economic value. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional details.  

Remaining minority interest of PerkinElmer India Pvt. Ltd. In June 2007, we acquired the remaining minority interest in PerkinElmer India Pvt. Ltd. (“PKI India”), a direct sales, service and marketing operation targeting India’s life science and analytical instrumentation markets, from Labindia Instruments Pvt. Ltd. The acquisition establishes PKI India as our wholly owned subsidiary. We paid approximately $1.3 million in cash   

44  

Table of Contents 

 for this transaction plus potential additional consideration of approximately $0.7 million, of which we paid $0.2 million during the fiscal year 2007. We paid the remaining $0.5 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Life and Analytical Sciences segment from the acquisition date.  

Improvision Ltd. In March 2007, we acquired the stock of Improvision Ltd. (“Improvision”), a leading provider of cellular imaging software and integrated hardware solutions used in life sciences research. We expect that the addition of Improvision’s imaging and analysis software to our high content screening systems will provide customers with powerful imaging solutions for analyzing cellular events, from real-time imaging of live cells to rapid high content screening of multiple samples. We paid approximately $23.6 million in cash for this transaction plus potential additional contingent consideration, which we expect to be immaterial to us. During fiscal year 2007, we paid $0.6 million for net working capital adjustments. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Life and Analytical Sciences segment from the acquisition date.  

Euroscreen Products S.A. In January 2007, we acquired the stock of Euroscreen Products S.A. (“Euroscreen”), a developer of the AequoScreen™ cellular assay platform. The AequoScreen™ platform from Euroscreen is based on an innovative luminescence technology that generates higher quality data, while reducing the number of false positives in G protein-coupled receptor (“GPCR”) screening applications. We paid approximately $18.1 million in cash for this transaction. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Life and Analytical Sciences segment from the acquisition date.  

Evotec Technologies GmbH. In January 2007, we acquired the stock of Evotec Technologies GmbH (“Evotec”). The acquisition is intended to allow us to provide our customers in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and academic arenas with Evotec’s high content screening instruments and software. These analysis tools determine the composition of cells and cell structure, a critical step in moving potential drug targets quickly through the discovery process. We paid approximately $33.0 million in cash for this transaction, which was paid in fiscal year 2006. During fiscal year 2007, we received $1.2 million for net working capital adjustments. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets has been allocated to goodwill, none of which is tax deductible. We report the operations for this acquisition within the results of our Life and Analytical Sciences segment from the acquisition date.  

The acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Allocation of the purchase price for the acquisitions was based on estimates of the fair value of the net assets acquired, and is subject to adjustment upon finalization of the purchase price allocation. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. We record the excess purchase price over those assigned values as goodwill. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS No. 142”), goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. Purchased intangibles with finite lives will be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional details.  

IPR&D charges represent incomplete acquired research and development projects that have not reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future use as of the acquisition date. Technological feasibility is established when an enterprise has completed all planning, designing, coding, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that a product can be produced to meet its design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. On the date of the acquisitions of Evotec and Euroscreen, there were multiple IPR&D efforts underway at each company for certain current and future product lines. In   

45  

Table of Contents 

 determining the value of in-process projects, we consider, among other factors, the in-process projects’ stage of completion, the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date, the costs already incurred, the projected costs to complete, the contribution of core technologies and other acquired assets, the expected introduction date, and the estimated useful life of the technology. For these acquisitions, we utilized the discounted cash flow method to value the IPR&D, using a discount rate equivalent to the relative risk of the asset, including the uncertainty of technological feasibility and successful launch. This approach determines fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to an in-process project over its useful life, and then discounting these after-tax cash flows back to a present value. For the acquisitions of Evotec and Euroscreen, we estimated the value of the IPR&D to be $0.2 million and $1.3 million, respectively. We believe that the estimated purchased research and development amounts so determined, represent the fair value at the date of the acquisitions, and the amount represents management’s best estimate of the amount a third party would pay in the aggregate for the projects. The fair value of acquired IPR&D costs was expensed as of the acquisition date as the projects underway at Evotec and Euroscreen had not reached technological feasibility and were determined to have no alternative future use.  

In connection with the purchase price and related allocations for acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of deferred revenue assumed with our acquisitions. The estimated fair value of deferred revenue is determined by the legal performance obligation at the date of acquisition, and is generally based on the nature of the activities to be performed and the related costs to be incurred after consummation. The fair value of an assumed liability related to deferred revenue is estimated based on the current market cost of fulfilling the obligation, plus a normal profit margin thereon. The estimated costs to fulfill the deferred revenue are based on the historical direct costs related to providing the services. We do not include any costs associated with selling efforts, research and development, or the related fulfillment margins on these costs. In most acquisitions, profit associated with selling effort is excluded because the acquired entities would have concluded the selling efforts on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date. The estimated research and development costs are not included in the fair value determination, as these costs are not deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of acquisition. The sum of the costs and operating income approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third-party to assume the obligation. As a result of purchase accounting, we recognized the deferred revenue related to the ViaCell acquisition at fair value, and did not recognize $18.1 million of deferred revenue that would have been otherwise recognized in future periods.  

As of December 28, 2008, all purchase price and related allocations are final with the exception of the Arnel acquisition which was preliminary as of December 28, 2008. The Arnel purchase price and related allocations may be revised as a result of adjustments made to the purchase price, as well as additional information regarding assets and liabilities assumed, including contingent liabilities, deferred taxes, and revisions of preliminary estimates of fair values made at the date of purchase. We are not aware of any information that indicates the final purchase price allocation will differ materially from the preliminary estimates, and we expect to complete any outstanding asset valuations no later than one year from the date of acquisition.  

Contingencies, Including Tax Matters  

We are conducting a number of environmental investigations and remedial actions at our current and former locations and, along with other companies, have been named a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) for certain waste disposal sites. We accrue for environmental issues in the accounting period that our responsibility is established and when the cost can be reasonably estimated. We have accrued $4.0 million as of December 28, 2008, which represents our management’s estimate of the total cost of ultimate disposition of known environmental matters. This amount is not discounted and does not reflect the recovery of any amounts through insurance or indemnification arrangements. These cost estimates are subject to a number of variables, including the stage of the environmental investigations, the magnitude of the possible contamination, the nature of the potential remedies, possible joint and several liability, the time period over which remediation may occur, and the possible effects of changing laws and regulations. For sites where we have been named a PRP, our management does not currently anticipate any additional liability to result from the inability of other significant   

46  

Table of Contents 

 named parties to contribute. We expect that the majority of such accrued amounts could be paid out over a period of up to ten years. As assessment and remediation activities progress at each individual site, these liabilities are reviewed and adjusted to reflect additional information as it becomes available. There have been no environmental problems to date that have had or are expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. While it is possible that a loss exceeding the amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may be incurred, the potential exposure is not expected to be materially different from those amounts recorded.  

Enzo Biochem, Inc. and Enzo Life Sciences, Inc. (collectively, “Enzo”) filed a complaint dated October 23, 2002 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, Civil Action No. 02-8448, against Amersham plc, Amersham BioSciences, PerkinElmer, Inc., PerkinElmer Life Sciences, Inc., Sigma-Aldrich Corporation, Sigma Chemical Company, Inc., Molecular Probes, Inc., and Orchid BioSciences, Inc. The complaint alleges that we have breached our distributorship and settlement agreements with Enzo, infringed Enzo’s patents, engaged in unfair competition and fraud, and committed torts against Enzo by, among other things, engaging in commercial development and exploitation of Enzo’s patented products and technology, separately and together with the other defendants. Enzo seeks injunctive and monetary relief. In 2003, the court severed the lawsuit and ordered Enzo to serve individual complaints against the five defendants. We subsequently filed an answer and a counterclaim alleging that Enzo’s patents are invalid. In July 2006, the court issued a decision regarding the construction of the claims in Enzo’s patents that effectively limited the coverage of certain of those claims and, we believe, excludes certain of our products from the coverage of Enzo’s patents. Summary judgment motions were filed by the defendants in January 2007, and a hearing with oral argument on those motions took place in July 2007, but a decision on those motions has not been rendered, and a trial date has not been set.  

PharmaStem Therapeutics, Inc. (“PharmaStem”) filed a complaint dated February 22, 2002 against ViaCell, Inc., which is now our wholly owned subsidiary, and several other defendants in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, alleging infringement of United States Patents No. 5,004,681 and No. 5,192,553, relating to certain aspects of the collection, cryopreservation and storage of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells from umbilical cord blood (“PharmaStem I”). After several years of proceedings at the District Court level, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision in July 2007 that ViaCell did not infringe these two patents and that the two patents are invalid. PharmaStem filed a certiorari petition in January 2008 seeking to have the United States Supreme Court review the appellate court’s decision as to the invalidity of the patents, but did not seek any further review of the non-infringement decision. However, the United States Supreme Court denied certiorari in March 2008, so the decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in favor of ViaCell is final and non-appealable. PharmaStem had also filed a second complaint against ViaCell and other defendants in July 2004 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, alleging infringement of United States Patents No. 6,461,645 and 6,569,427, which also relate to certain aspects of the collection, cryopreservation and storage of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells from umbilical cord blood (“PharmaStem II”). The Delaware court granted ViaCell’s motion in October 2005 to stay the proceedings in PharmaStem II pending the outcome of PharmaStem I and a decision from the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“U.S. PTO”) on certain patent re-examination issues. On September 2, 2008, the U.S. PTO issued a Re-examination Certificate cancelling all claims of United States Patent No. 6,461,645, and on September 16, 2008, the U.S. PTO issued a Re-examination Certificate cancelling all claims of United States Patent No. 6,569,427. As a result of the cancellation of all patent claims involved in PharmaStem II by the U.S. PTO, we will seek a dismissal of all claims for relief set forth by PharmaStem in PharmaStem II.  

We believe we have meritorious defenses to these lawsuits and other proceedings, and we are contesting the actions vigorously in all of the above unresolved matters. While each of these matters is subject to uncertainty, in the opinion of our management, based on its review of the information available at this time, the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.  

47  

Table of Contents 

During fiscal year 2005, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service concluded its audit of our federal income taxes for the years 1999 through 2002. There was a single open issue related to this audit which we favorably resolved during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. In addition, tax years ranging from 1998 through 2008 remain open to examination by various state and foreign tax jurisdictions (such as China, Indonesia, the Philippines and the United Kingdom) in which we have significant business operations. The tax years under examination vary by jurisdiction. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we effectively settled several income tax audits worldwide, including in Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States covering various years ranging from 1998 through 2005. We regularly review our tax positions in each significant taxing jurisdiction in the process of evaluating our unrecognized tax benefits as required by FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” (“FIN No. 48”), which we adopted as of January 1, 2007. Adjustments are made to our unrecognized tax benefits when: (i) facts and circumstances regarding a tax position change, causing a change in management’s judgment regarding that tax position; (ii) a tax position is effectively settled with a tax authority; and/or (iii) the statute of limitations expires regarding a tax position.  

We are also subject to various other claims, legal proceedings and investigations covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business activities. Although we have established accruals for potential losses that we believe are probable and reasonably estimable, in the opinion of our management, based on its review of the information available at this time, the total cost of resolving these other contingencies at December 28, 2008 should not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Each of these matters is subject to uncertainties, and it is possible that some of these matters may be resolved unfavorably to us.  

Reporting Segment Results of Continuing Operations  

Life and Analytical Sciences  

2008 Compared to 2007. Sales for fiscal year 2008 were $1,512.6 million, as compared to $1,315.6 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $197.0 million, or 15%, which includes an approximate 6% increase from acquisitions and an approximate 2% increase in sales attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates. The following analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by market and product type for fiscal year 2008, as compared to fiscal year 2007, and includes the effect of acquisitions and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Sales to genetic screening customers increased by $91.0 million, sales to analytical sciences customers increased by $36.9 million, sales to laboratory service customers increased by $36.8 million, and sales to bio-discovery customers increased by $32.5 million.  

Operating income for fiscal year 2008 was $138.6 million, as compared to $129.6 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $9.1 million, or 7%. Amortization of intangible assets increased due to acquisitions completed in fiscal years 2008 and 2007 and was $52.5 million for fiscal year 2008, as compared to $41.4 million for fiscal year 2007. The gains on the settlement of the insurance claim for the fire in our Boston, Massachusetts facility in March 2005 was $15.3 million for fiscal year 2007. Restructuring and lease charges were $6.6 million for fiscal year 2008 as a result of our Q3 2008 Plan, and restructuring and lease charges were $8.7 million for fiscal year 2007 as a result of our restructuring plans. Amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record inventory and the IPR&D charge from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2007 was $2.5 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Stock option expense was $4.1 million and $3.4 million for fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. The combined favorable impact of increased sales volume and productivity improvements increased operating income, which was partially offset by inflation, increased freight costs, and increased sales and marketing expenses to support recent acquisitions, particularly the acquisition of ViaCell.  

2007 Compared to 2006. Sales for fiscal year 2007 were $1,315.6 million, as compared to $1,129.2 million for fiscal year 2006, an increase of $186.4 million, or 17%, which includes an approximate 6% increase from acquisitions and an approximate 4% increase in sales attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates.   

48  

Table of Contents 

 The following analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by market and product type for fiscal year 2007, as compared to fiscal year 2006, and includes the effect of acquisitions and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Sales to genetic screening customers increased by $49.1 million, sales to analytical sciences customers increased by $51.2 million, sales to laboratory service customers increased by $51.3 million, and sales to bio-discovery customers increased by $34.9 million.  

Operating income for fiscal year 2007 was $129.6 million, as compared to $112.7 million for fiscal year 2006, an increase of $16.9 million, or 15%. Amortization of intangible assets increased due to acquisitions completed in fiscal years 2007 and 2006 and was $41.4 million for fiscal year 2007, as compared to $31.3 million for fiscal year 2006. Restructuring and lease charges were $8.7 million for fiscal year 2007 as a result of our restructuring plans, as compared to reversals of $1.7 million in fiscal year 2006. Amortization of purchase accounting adjustments to record the inventory and IPR&D from certain acquisitions completed in fiscal year 2007 were $2.5 million and $1.5 million, respectively. Stock option expense was $3.4 million and $3.2 million for fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. Gains on the settlement of the insurance claim for the March 2005 fire in our Boston, Massachusetts facility were $15.3 million for fiscal year 2007. Increased sales volume and higher net productivity increased operating income, partially offset by pressures in our laboratory services business as a result of entering into several large new contracts requiring an increase in start-up investment in the first six months of fiscal year 2007.  

Optoelectronics  

2008 Compared to 2007. Sales for fiscal year 2008 were $424.9 million, as compared to $386.8 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $38.1 million, or 10%, which includes an approximate 1% increase from acquisitions and an approximate 2% increase in sales attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by product type for fiscal year 2008, as compared to fiscal year 2007, and includes the effect of acquisitions and foreign exchange fluctuations. The increase in sales was primarily a result of an increase of $24.6 million in sales of our medical imaging products due to the performance of our amorphous silicon business, an increase in sales of our specialty lighting products of $7.2 million, and an increase in sales of our optical sensors of $5.4 million.  

Operating income for fiscal year 2008 was $91.2 million, as compared to $71.4 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $19.8 million, or 28%. Restructuring and lease reversals were $0.4 million for fiscal year 2008 as a result of changes in estimates for lease costs associated with the sale of a business from 2001 and restructuring and lease charges were $3.6 million for fiscal year 2007 as a result of our Q4 2007 Plan and lease costs associated with the sale of a business from 2001. Amortization of intangible assets was $3.1 million and $2.7 million for fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. Stock option expense was $1.8 million and $1.3 million for fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively. Increased sales volume and capacity and productivity improvements made within our amorphous silicon business increased operating income. 

2007 Compared to 2006. Sales for fiscal year 2007 were $386.8 million, as compared to $348.5 million for fiscal year 2006, an increase of $38.3 million, or 11%, which includes an approximate 3% increase in sales attributable to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates. The analysis in the remainder of this paragraph compares selected sales by product type for fiscal year 2007, as compared to fiscal year 2006, and includes the effect of acquisitions and foreign exchange fluctuations. The increase in sales was primarily a result of an increase of $29.3 million in sales of our medical imaging products due to the performance of our amorphous silicon business, an increase in sales of our specialty lighting products of $4.1 million, and an increase in sales of our optical sensors of $4.8 million.  

Operating income for fiscal year 2007 was $71.4 million, as compared to $66.1 million for fiscal year 2006, an increase of $5.3 million, or 8%. Restructuring and lease charges, net of reversals, were $3.6 million for fiscal year 2007, as a result of our Q4 2007 Plan and lease costs associated with the sale of a business from 2001. Restructuring reversals were $1.9 million for fiscal year 2006. Amortization of intangible assets was $2.7 million   

49  

Table of Contents 

 and $2.5 million for fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. Stock option expense was $1.3 million and $1.6 million for fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. Increased sales volume and capacity and productivity improvements made within the amorphous silicon business also increased operating income.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We require cash to pay our operating expenses, make capital expenditures, service our debt and other long-term liabilities, repurchase shares of our common stock and pay dividends on our common stock. Our principal sources of funds are from our operations and the capital markets, particularly the debt markets. In the near term, we anticipate that our operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our operating expenses, capital expenditures, interest payments on our debt and dividends on our common stock. In the long term, we expect to use internally generated funds and external sources to satisfy our debt and other long-term liabilities.  

Principal factors that could affect the availability of our internally generated funds include:  

   •    deterioration of sales due to weakness in markets in which we sell our products and services, and  

   •    changes in our working capital requirements.  

Principal factors that could affect our ability to obtain cash from external sources include:  

   •    financial covenants contained in the financial instruments controlling our borrowings that limit our total borrowing capacity,  

   •    increases in interest rates applicable to our outstanding variable rate debt,  

   •    a ratings downgrade that would limit our ability to borrow under our accounts receivable and amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility and our overall access to the corporate debt market,  

   •    increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, that affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis,  

   •    a decrease in the market price for our common stock, and  

   •    volatility in the public debt and equity markets.  

Cash Flows  

Fiscal Year 2008  

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $212.7 million for fiscal year 2008, compared to net cash provided by continuing operations of $188.9 million for fiscal year 2007, an increase of $23.8 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2008 was driven by income from continuing operations of $126.1 million, depreciation and amortization of $88.3 million and restructuring and lease charges of $6.2 million. These amounts were partially offset by a net increase in working capital of $17.0 million. Contributing to the net increase in working capital in fiscal year 2008, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, was an increase in accounts receivable of $12.2 million and an increase in inventory of $10.4 million, offset by an increase in accounts payable of $5.6 million. The increase in inventory was primarily the result of expanding the amount of inventory held at sales locations within our Life and Analytical Sciences segment to improve timing of sales. In both the Life and Analytical Sciences and Optoelectronics segments the timing of revenue during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 increased the accounts receivable balance, which was offset by the timing of disbursements in accounts payable during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. There was a decrease of $5.0 million in our accounts receivable securitization facility during fiscal year 2008, which totaled $40.0 million and $45.0 million at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively. Changes in accrued expenses, other assets and liabilities and other items, net, totaled $9.1 million in fiscal year 2008, and primarily related to tax audit settlements and the timing of payments for tax, restructuring, and salary and benefits.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Investing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations investing activities was $133.6 million for fiscal year 2008, compared to $347.7 million of cash used in continuing operations investing activities for fiscal year 2007. For fiscal year 2008, we used $76.7 million of net cash for acquisitions and used $14.9 million in related transaction costs, earn-out payments, acquired licenses and other costs in connection with these and other transactions. Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2008 were $43.3 million, mainly in the areas of tooling and other capital equipment purchases, in addition to improvements in our amorphous silicon facility within our Optoelectronics segment and payments of $0.2 million related to business development costs. These cash outflows were partially offset by $1.2 million from the sale of investments and $0.4 million related to the release of restricted cash balances.  

Financing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations financing activities was $101.1 million for fiscal year 2008, as compared to $148.9 million of cash provided by continuing operations financing activities for fiscal year 2007. In fiscal year 2008, we repurchased approximately 3.0 million shares of our common stock, including 37,521 shares to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, for a total cost of $75.5 million. This compares to repurchases of approximately 8.1 million shares of our common stock in the open market for fiscal year 2007 for an aggregate of $203.0 million, including commissions. This use of cash was offset by proceeds from common stock option exercises of $43.7 million and the related tax benefit of $0.3 million for fiscal year 2008. During fiscal year 2008, debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility totaled $476.0 million, proceeds from the issuance of our seven-year senior unsecured notes at a rate of 6% totaled $150.0 million, which was offset by debt reductions to our credit facilities, with aggregate payments of $633.0 million. This compares to debt reductions in fiscal year 2007 of $212.4 million. In fiscal year 2008, we also paid $27.1 million to settle forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25% and $2.0 million for debt issuance costs during fiscal year 2008. In addition, we paid $33.1 million in dividends for fiscal year 2008.  

Fiscal Year 2007  

Operating Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations was $188.9 million in fiscal year 2007, compared to net cash provided by continuing operations of $124.7 million in fiscal year 2006, an increase of $64.2 million, driven primarily by the $1.3 million of divestiture tax refunds that occurred in fiscal year 2007 as compared to the $60.3 million of taxes paid on divestitures in fiscal year 2006. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2007 was also driven by income from continuing operations of $130.7 million, depreciation and amortization of $76.5 million and restructuring and lease charges of $12.2 million. These amounts were partially offset by $15.3 million from the settlement of an insurance claim and a net increase in working capital of $10.9 million. Contributing to the net increase in working capital in fiscal year 2007, excluding the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, was an increase in accounts receivable of $19.6 million and an increase in inventory of $2.4 million, offset by an increase in accounts payable of $11.1 million. In both the Life and Analytical Sciences and Optoelectronics segments the timing of strong revenue performance in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 increased the accounts receivable balance, which was offset by the timing of accounts payable disbursements in the same quarter. There was no incremental use of our accounts receivable securitization facility in fiscal year 2007, which totaled $45.0 million at both December 30, 2007 and December 31, 2006. Changes in accrued expenses, other assets and liabilities and other items, net, totaled $5.6 million in fiscal year 2007, and primarily related to timing of payments for tax, restructuring, and salary and benefits.  

Investing Activities. Net cash used in continuing operations investing activities was $347.7 million in fiscal year 2007, compared to $139.1 million of cash used in continuing operations investing activities in fiscal year 2006. Included in fiscal year 2007 were payments of $1.0 million related to business development costs. In addition, we used $312.7 million of net cash for acquisitions and used $3.2 million in related transaction costs, earn-out payments, acquired licenses and other costs in connection with these and other transactions. Capital expenditures in fiscal year 2007 were $44.5 million, mainly in the areas of tooling and other capital equipment   

51  

Table of Contents 

 purchases, in addition to the improvements in our amorphous silicon facility within our Optoelectronics segment. These cash outflows were partially offset by $10.8 million received from the settlement of an insurance claim, $1.6 million from the surrender of life insurance policies, and $1.4 million from the sale of investments.  

Financing Activities. Net cash provided by continuing operations financing activities was $148.9 million in fiscal year 2007, compared to $313.5 million of cash used in continuing operations financing activities in fiscal year 2006. In fiscal year 2007, we repurchased in the open market approximately 8.1 million shares of our common stock at a total cost of $203.0 million, including commissions. This compares to repurchases in fiscal year 2006 of $190.1 million. We also paid $4.2 million to settle forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%, and $0.8 million for debt issuance costs. These uses of cash were offset in part by $32.8 million of proceeds from common stock option exercises and the related tax benefit. Debt borrowings from our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility and interim unsecured credit facility in fiscal year 2007 totaled $271.5 million and $300.0 million, respectively, offset by debt reductions to our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility of $212.4 million and other credit facilities of $1.3 million. This compares to debt reductions in fiscal year 2006 of $110.7 million. In addition, we paid $33.7 million in dividends in fiscal year 2007.  

Current Borrowing Arrangements  

Amended Senior Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility. On August 13, 2007, we entered into an amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility providing for a facility through August 13, 2012, which amended and restated in its entirety our previous senior revolving credit agreement dated as of October 31, 2005. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, we exercised our option to increase the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility to $650.0 million from $500.0 million. Letters of credit in the aggregate amount of approximately $14.0 million were issued under the previous facility, which are treated as issued under the amended facility. We use the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes, which may include working capital, refinancing existing indebtedness, capital expenditures, share repurchases, acquisitions and strategic alliances. The interest rates under the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility are based on the Eurocurrency rate at the time of borrowing plus a margin or the base rate from time to time. The base rate is the higher of (i) the corporate base rate announced from time to time by Bank of America, N.A. and (ii) the Federal Funds rate plus 50 basis points. We may allocate all or a portion of our indebtedness under the amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility to interest based upon the Eurocurrency rate plus a margin or the base rate. The Eurocurrency margin as of December 28, 2008 was 40 basis points. The weighted average Eurocurrency interest rate as of December 28, 2008 was 0.63%, resulting in a weighted average effective Eurocurrency rate, including the margin, of 1.03%. We had drawn down approximately $359.0 million of borrowings in U.S. Dollars under the facility as of December 28, 2008, with interest based on the above described Eurocurrency rate. The agreement for the facility contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants and events of default customary for financings of this type, and which are consistent with those financial covenants contained in our previous senior revolving credit agreement. The financial covenants in our amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility include debt-to-capital ratios and a contingent maximum total leverage ratio, applicable if our credit rating is down-graded below investment grade. At all times during fiscal year 2008, we were in compliance with all applicable covenants, and anticipate being in compliance for the duration of the term of the credit facility.  

Unsecured Interim Credit Facility. On November 14, 2007, we entered into a $300.0 million unsecured interim credit facility. We entered into this unsecured interim credit facility in order to pay the purchase price and transactional expenses of the ViaCell acquisition. This unsecured interim credit facility matured on March 31, 2008, at which point all amounts outstanding were due in full. On March 28, 2008, we paid in full the outstanding balance on the unsecured interim credit facility of $300.0 million. The source of funds for the repayment was comprised of our cash and cash equivalents, and borrowings under our amended and restated senior unsecured revolving credit facility.  

52  

Table of Contents 

6% Senior Unsecured Notes. On May 30, 2008, we issued and sold seven-year senior notes at a rate of 6% with a face value of $150.0 million and received $150.0 million in gross proceeds from the issuance. The debt, which matures in May 2015, is unsecured. Interest on the 6% senior notes is payable semi-annually on May 30th and November 30th. We may redeem some or all of our 6% senior notes at any time in an amount not less than 10% of the original aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, plus the applicable make-whole amount. The financial covenants in our 6% senior notes include debt-to-capital ratios which, if our credit rating is down-graded below investment grade, would be replaced by a contingent maximum total leverage ratio. At all times during fiscal year 2008, we were in compliance with all applicable covenants, and anticipate being in compliance for the duration of the term of the notes.  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we entered into forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $300.0 million and a weighted average interest rate of 4.25%. These contracts were intended to hedge movements in interest rates prior to our expected debt issuance. In May 2008, we settled forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million, upon the issuance of our 6% senior unsecured notes. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we concluded that the remaining portion of the expected debt issuance, with a notional amount totaling $150.0 million, was no longer probable. As a result of the debt issuance no longer being probable, we discontinued and settled the forward interest rate contracts with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million and recognized derivative losses of $17.5 million, in interest and other expense.  

Before amortization expense, we had accumulated derivative losses of $8.4 million, net of taxes of $5.4 million, in other comprehensive (loss) income as of December 28, 2008 and $5.3 million, net of taxes of $3.5 million, as of December 30, 2007, related to these cash flow hedges. The derivative losses are amortized into interest expense when the hedged exposure affects interest expense. During fiscal year 2008, $1.2 million of these derivative losses were amortized into interest expense.  

Once established, cash flow hedges are generally recorded in other comprehensive (loss) income until maturity unless an anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur. Discontinued or dedesignated cash flow hedges are immediately settled with counterparties, and the related accumulated derivative gains or losses are recognized into interest expense on the consolidated financial statements. We did not recognize any ineffectiveness during fiscal year 2008 or fiscal year 2007.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Receivables Securitization Facility. During fiscal year 2001, we established a wholly owned consolidated subsidiary to maintain a receivables purchase agreement with a third party financial institution. Under this arrangement, we sold, on a revolving basis, certain of our accounts receivable balances to the consolidated subsidiary which simultaneously sold an undivided percentage ownership interest in designated pools of receivables to a third party financial institution. As collections reduce the balance of sold accounts receivable, new receivables are sold. Our consolidated subsidiary retains the risk of credit loss on the receivables. Accordingly, the full amount of the allowance for doubtful accounts has been provided for on our balance sheets. The amount of receivables sold and outstanding with the third party financial institution may not exceed $65.0 million. Under the terms of this arrangement, our consolidated subsidiary retains collection and administrative responsibilities for the balances. The aggregate amount of receivables sold to the consolidated subsidiary was $72.8 million as of December 28, 2008 and $79.0 million as of December 30, 2007. At December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, an undivided interest of $40.0 million and $45.0 million, respectively, in the receivables had been sold to the third party financial institution under this arrangement. The remaining interest in receivables of $32.8 million and $34.0 million that were sold to and held by the consolidated subsidiary were included in accounts receivable in the consolidated financial statements at December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, respectively.  

The agreement requires the third party financial institution to be paid interest during the period from the date the receivable is sold to its maturity date. At December 28, 2008, the effective interest rate was LIBOR plus approximately 220 basis points. The servicing fees received constitute adequate compensation for services   

53  

Table of Contents 

 performed. No servicing asset or liability is therefore recorded. The agreement also includes conditions that require us to maintain a senior unsecured credit rating of BB or above, as defined by Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, and Ba2 or above, as defined by Moody’s Investors Service. At December 28, 2008, we had a senior unsecured credit rating of BBB, with a stable outlook from Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, and of Baa3, with a stable outlook from Moody’s Investors Service. In January 2009, our consolidated subsidiary entered into an agreement to extend the term of the accounts receivable securitization facility to February 27, 2009 in order to conclude the audit of the receivables purchase agreement. We anticipate an additional extension of the facility.  

Dividends  

Our Board declared regular quarterly cash dividends of seven cents per share in each quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007, resulting in an annual dividend rate of 28 cents per share.  

Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 28, 2008 for continuing and discontinuing operations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The credit facility borrowings carry variable interest rates; the amounts included in this table do not contemplate interest obligations.  

 (2) For the purposes of this table, the obligation has been calculated without interest obligations.  

 (3) The FIN No. 48 amount includes accrued interest, net of tax benefits, and penalties. We have excluded $36.2 million, including accrued interest, net of tax benefits, and penalties, from the amount related to our uncertain tax positions as we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of related future payments.  

Capital Expenditures  

During fiscal year 2009, we expect to invest an amount for capital expenditures similar to that in fiscal year 2008, primarily to introduce new products, to improve our operating processes, to shift the production capacity to lower cost locations, and to develop information technology. We expect to use our available cash and internally generated funds to fund these expenditures.  

Other Potential Liquidity Considerations  

On November 6, 2006, we announced that our Board authorized us to repurchase up to 10.0 million shares of our common stock under a stock repurchase program (the “Repurchase Program”). The Repurchase Program would expire on October 25, 2010 unless this authorization was terminated earlier by our Board, and could be   

54  

Table of Contents 

 suspended or discontinued at any time. During the first quarter of 2007, we repurchased in the open market 2,500,000 shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $60.0 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, we repurchased in the open market 3,468,300 shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $87.1 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, we repurchased in the open market 1,082,492 shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $28.9 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, we repurchased in the open market 1,000,000 shares of our common stock at an aggregate cost of $26.9 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we repurchased 1,949,208 shares of our common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $56.6 million, including commissions, under the Repurchase Program. These repurchases completed our repurchase of the 10.0 million shares in the aggregate authorized under the Repurchase Program. The repurchased shares have been reflected as additional authorized but unissued shares, with the payments reflected in common stock and capital in excess of par value.  

On October 23, 2008, we announced that our Board has authorized us to repurchase up to 10.0 million additional shares of our common stock under a new stock repurchase program (the “New Repurchase Program”). The New Repurchase Program will expire on October 22, 2012 unless this authorization is terminated earlier by our Board, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we repurchased 1,000,000 shares of our common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $18.0 million, including commissions, under the New Repurchase Program. From December 29, 2008 through February 20, 2009, we repurchased approximately 1,000,000 shares of our common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of $14.2 million, including commissions, under the New Repurchase Program.  

Our Board has authorized us to repurchase shares of our common stock in the aggregate to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, we repurchased 17,549 shares of our common stock. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we repurchased 3,354 shares of our common stock. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, we repurchased 16,618 shares of our common stock. The repurchased shares have been reflected as additional authorized but unissued shares, with the payments reflected in common stock and capital in excess of par value. 

At December 28, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $179.1 million and an amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility with $277.0 million available for additional borrowing. In May 2008, we finalized an issuance of 6% seven-year senior unsecured notes with proceeds of approximately $150.0 million. The proceeds from this debt issuance were used to repay existing borrowings under our amended senior unsecured revolving credit facility.  

In connection with the settlement of an insurance claim resulting from a fire that occurred within our Life and Analytical Sciences facility in Boston, Massachusetts in March 2005, we accrued $9.7 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, representing our management’s estimate of the total cost for decommissioning the building, including environmental matters, that was damaged in the fire. We paid $1.6 million during fiscal year 2008 and $3.9 million during fiscal year 2007 towards decommissioning the building, and we anticipate that the remaining payments of $4.2 million will be completed by the third quarter of fiscal year 2009.  

Our businesses have not been materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and the economy in general. However, recent distress in these markets has adversely impacted a number of financial conditions by severely diminishing liquidity and credit availability, creating extreme volatility in security prices, increasing interest rates and/or widening credit spreads, and decreasing valuations of certain investments. The increasing or high interest rates and/or widening credit spreads may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses and may affect the fair value of financial instruments that we issue or hold. Increases in interest rates or credit spreads, as well as limitations on the availability of credit, could affect our ability to borrow under future potential facilities on a secured or unsecured basis, which may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Our pension plans have not experienced any material impact on liquidity or counterparty exposure due to the volatility in the credit markets; however, as a result of losses experienced in global equity markets, our pension funds had a negative return for fiscal year 2008, which in turn created increased pension costs in fiscal year 2009 and potentially in additional future periods. In addition, we may be required to fund our pension plans for approximately $18.0 million by fiscal year 2010, and we could potentially have to make additional funding payments in future periods. We cannot predict how long these conditions will exist or how our businesses may be affected. In difficult global financial markets, we may be forced to fund our operations at a higher cost, or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support our business activities.  

Effects of Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncement  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS No. 157”), which clarifies the principle that fair value should be based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing an asset or liability, establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the information used to develop those assumptions, and expands the related disclosure requirements. Under the standard, fair value measurements are to be separately disclosed by level within the fair value hierarchy. SFAS No. 157 applies under other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value based upon an exit price model. The FASB also issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) No. 157-2 in February 2008 (“FSP No. 157-2”). FSP No. 157-2 delays the effective date of the application of SFAS No. 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are recognized at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. We adopted SFAS No. 157 as of December 31, 2007, with the exception of the application of the statement to non-recurring nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities. See Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K for additional details.  

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS No. 159”). SFAS No. 159 provides entities with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value, with the objective to reduce both the complexity in accounting for financial instruments, and the volatility in earnings caused by measuring related financial assets and liabilities differently. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option is elected would be reported in earnings. We adopted SFAS No. 159 as of December 31, 2007, and to date have not elected to measure any additional financial instruments and other items at fair value. Therefore, material financial assets and liabilities not carried at fair value, such as our short-term and long-term debt obligations and trade accounts receivable and accounts payable, are still reported at their carrying values. Any future transacted financial asset or liability will be evaluated for the fair value election as prescribed by SFAS No. 159.  

In March 2007, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 06-10, “Accounting for Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements” (“EITF No. 06-10”). EITF No. 06-10 provides guidance for determining a liability for the post-retirement benefit obligation as well as recognition and measurement of the associated asset on the basis of the terms of the collateral assignment agreement. We adopted EITF No. 06-10 as of December 31, 2007 and the adoption did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In June 2007, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07-3, “Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development Activities” (“EITF No. 07-3”). EITF No. 07-3 requires that nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities be deferred, capitalized and recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. We adopted EITF No. 07-3, on a prospective basis, as of December 31, 2007 and the adoption did not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, “The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” (“SFAS No. 162”). SFAS No. 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles used in the preparation of financial statements of nongovernmental entities that are   

56  

Table of Contents 

 presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”). With the issuance of this statement, the FASB concluded that the U.S. GAAP hierarchy should be directed toward the entity and not its auditor, and reside in the accounting literature established by the FASB as opposed to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) Statement on Auditing Standards No. 69, “The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.” SFAS No. 162 is effective 60 days following the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (“SEC”) approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, “The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.” We have evaluated the requirements of SFAS No. 162 and have determined that it will not have a significant impact on our determination or reporting of financial results.  

Effects of Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (“SFAS No. 141(R)”). SFAS No. 141(R) establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements significant aspects of a business combination. Under SFAS No. 141(R), acquisition costs will generally be expensed as incurred; noncontrolling interests will be valued at fair value at the acquisition date; IPR&D will be recorded at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible asset at the acquisition date; restructuring costs associated with a business combination will generally be expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date generally will affect income tax expense. SFAS No. 141(R) amends SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes” (“SFAS No. 109”), such that adjustments made to valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies associated with acquisitions that closed prior to the effective date of SFAS No. 141(R) would also apply the provisions of SFAS No. 141(R). SFAS No. 141(R) also establishes disclosure requirements to enable the evaluation of the nature and financial effects of the business combination. Early adoption is not permitted. SFAS No. 141(R) is effective on a prospective basis for all business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual period subsequent to December 15, 2008, with the exception of the accounting for valuation allowances on deferred taxes and acquired tax contingencies. We will be required to adopt SFAS No. 141(R) in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. We are currently evaluating the requirements of SFAS No. 141(R) and have not yet determined the impact of its adoption on our consolidated financial statements.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements—an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51” (“SFAS No. 160”). SFAS No. 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent, the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest, changes in a parent’s ownership interest, and the valuation of retained noncontrolling equity investments when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. SFAS No. 160 also establishes disclosure requirements that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. We will be required to adopt SFAS No. 160 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. We are currently evaluating the requirements of SFAS No. 160 and have not yet determined the impact, if any, of its adoption on our consolidated financial statements.  

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities—an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133” (“SFAS No. 161”). SFAS No. 161 is intended to improve transparency in financial reporting by requiring enhanced disclosures of an entity’s derivative instruments and hedging activities and their effects on the entity’s financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 applies to all derivative instruments within the scope of SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as well as related hedged items, bifurcated derivatives, and nonderivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments. SFAS No. 161 establishes principles and requirements for how an entity identifies derivative instruments and related hedged items that affect its financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 also establishes disclosure requirements that the fair values of derivative instruments and their gains and losses are disclosed in a tabular   

57  

Table of Contents 

 format, that derivative features which are credit-risk related be disclosed to provide clarification to an entity’s liquidity and cross-referencing within footnotes. We will be required to adopt SFAS No. 161 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. SFAS No. 161 provides only disclosure requirements; the adoption of this standard will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. 142-3, “Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets” (“FSP No. 142-3”). FSP No. 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142. The objective of FSP No. 142-3 is to improve the consistency between the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142 and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset under SFAS No. 141(R) and other accounting principles. FSP No. 142-3 applies to all intangible assets, whether acquired in a business combination or otherwise, and early adoption is prohibited. We will be required to adopt FSP No. 142-3 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. We are currently evaluating the requirements of FSP No. 142-3 and have not yet determined the impact of its adoption on our consolidated financial statements.  

In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. 132(R)-1, “Employers’ Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets” (“FSP No. 132(R)-1”), which requires additional disclosures for employers’ pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets were not included within the scope of SFAS No. 157. FSP No. 132(R)-1 requires employers to disclose information about fair value measurements of plan assets similar to the disclosures required under SFAS No. 157, including the investment policies and strategies for the major categories of plan assets, and significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. We will be required to adopt FSP No. 132(R)-1 as of December 31, 2009. FSP No. 132(R)-1 provides only disclosure requirements; the adoption of this standard will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, restructuring, pensions and other postretirement benefits, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  

We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue recognition. We record product sales when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price to the buyer is fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, we recognize product revenue upon delivery, and we delay recognition of installation revenue until the installation is complete. For sales that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, we recognize revenue only after the acceptance criteria have been met. We defer revenue from services and recognize it over the contractual period, or as we render services and the customer accepts them. When arrangements include multiple elements, we use objective evidence of fair value to allocate revenue to the elements and recognize revenue when the criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element, all in accordance with EITF Issue No. 00-21, “Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.” Because the majority of our sales relate to specific manufactured products or units rather than long-term customized projects, we generally do not experience significant changes in original estimates. Further, we have not experienced any significant refunds or promotional allowances that require significant estimation.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Warranty Costs. We provide for estimated warranty costs for products at the time of their sale. Warranty liabilities are based on estimated future repair costs using historical labor and material incurred in the warranty period.  

Allowances for doubtful accounts. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We generally compute our allowance for doubtful accounts by (i) applying specific percentage reserves on accounts that are past due and deemed uncollectible; and (ii) specifically reserving for customers known to be in financial difficulty. Therefore, if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate beyond our estimates, we may have to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts. This would reduce our earnings.  

Inventory valuation. We initially value inventory at actual cost to purchase and/or manufacture. We periodically review these values to ascertain that market value of the inventory continues to exceed its recorded cost. Generally, reductions in value of inventory below cost are caused by our maintenance of stocks of products in excess of demand, or technological obsolescence of the inventory. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and, when necessary, record provisions for excess and obsolete inventory based on either our estimated forecast of product demand and production requirements, or historical trailing usage of the product. If our sales do not materialize as planned or at historic levels, we may have to increase our reserve for excess and obsolete inventory. This would reduce our earnings. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold, resulting in lower costs of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period.  

Business Combinations. The allocation of purchase price for business combinations requires estimates and judgment as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair value for purchase price allocation purposes. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, or require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets.  

Value of long-lived assets, including intangibles. We carry a variety of long-lived assets on our balance sheet including property and equipment, investments, identifiable intangible assets, and goodwill. We periodically review the carrying value of all of these assets based, in part, upon current estimated market values and our projections of anticipated future cash flows. We undertake this review (i) on an annual basis for assets such as goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets and (ii) on a periodic basis for other long-lived assets when facts and circumstances suggest that cash flows emanating from those assets may be diminished. Any impairment charge that we record reduces our earnings. The impairment test consists of a two-step process. The first step is the comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if the carrying value exceeds the fair value. The second step measures the amount of an impairment loss, and is only performed if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. We perform the annual impairment assessment on the later of January 1 or the first day of each fiscal year. This same impairment test will be performed at other times during the course of the year should an event occur which suggests that the recoverability of goodwill should be reconsidered. Non-amortizing intangibles are also subject to an annual impairment test. The impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess is recognized. In addition, we currently evaluate the remaining useful life of our non-amortizing intangible assets at least annually to determine whether events or circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life. If events or circumstances indicate that the useful lives of non-amortizing intangible assets are no longer indefinite, the assets will be tested for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 142. These intangible assets will then be amortized prospectively over their estimated remaining useful life and accounted for in the   

59  

Table of Contents 

 same manner as other intangible assets that are subject to amortization. Through fiscal year 2008, we assessed the annual impairment testing using the Life and Analytical Sciences and Optoelectronics reporting units. We completed the annual impairment test using a measurement date of December 28, 2008 and January 1, 2008, and concluded based on the first step of the process that there was no goodwill impairment. While we believe that our estimates of current value are reasonable, different assumptions regarding items such as future cash flows and the volatility inherent in markets which we serve could affect our evaluations and result in impairment charges against the carrying value of those assets.  

Employee compensation and benefits. Retirement and postretirement benefit plans are a significant cost of doing business, and represent obligations that will be ultimately settled far in the future, and therefore are subject to estimation. Retirement and postretirement benefit plan expenses are allocated to cost of sales, research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses, in our consolidated statements of operations. We incurred expenses of $8.3 million in fiscal year 2008, $12.5 million in fiscal year 2007, and $10.2 million in fiscal year 2006 for our retirement and postretirement plans. We expect expenses of approximately $13.2 million in fiscal year 2009 for our retirement and postretirement plans. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employee’s approximate service period based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made. We are required to make assumptions regarding such variables as the expected long-term rate of return on assets and the discount rate applied, to determine service cost and interest cost, in order to arrive at pension income or expense for the year. As of December 28, 2008, we estimated the expected long-term rate of return of assets in our pension portfolios in the United States was 8.5% and was 6.5% for all plans outside the United States. We have analyzed the rates of return on assets used and determined that these rates are reasonable based on the plans’ historical performance relative to the overall markets in the countries where we invest the assets, as well as our current expectations for long-term rates of returns for our pension assets. Our management will continue to assess the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumptions for each plan based on relevant market conditions, and will make adjustments to the assumptions as appropriate. Discount rate assumptions have been, and continue to be, based on the prevailing market long-term interest rates at the measurement date. If any of our assumptions were to change, our pension plan expenses would also change. A one-quarter percent increase in the discount rate would decrease our net periodic benefit cost by $0.5 million for fiscal year 2009 in the United States and by $0.4 million for fiscal year 2009 for all plans outside the United States. A one percent decrease in the estimated return on plan assets would increase our pre-tax pension expense by $2.2 million for fiscal year 2009 in the United States and by $0.7 million for fiscal year 2009 for all plans outside the United States. We have reduced the volatility in our healthcare costs provided to our retirees by adopting a defined dollar plan feature in fiscal year 2001. Under the defined dollar plan feature, our total annual liability for healthcare costs to any one retiree is limited to a fixed dollar amount, regardless of the nature or cost of the healthcare needs of that retiree. Our maximum future liability, therefore, cannot be increased by future changes in the cost of healthcare.  

Restructuring activities. Our consolidated financial statements detail specific charges relating to restructuring activities as well as the actual spending that has occurred against the resulting accruals in accordance with SFAS No. 146, “Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.” Our pre-tax restructuring charges are estimates based on our preliminary assessments of (i) severance benefits to be granted to employees, based on known benefit formulas and identified job grades, (ii) costs to abandon certain facilities based on known lease costs of sub-rental income and (iii) asset impairments as discussed above under “Value of long-lived assets, including intangibles.” Because these accruals are estimates, they are subject to change as a result of deviations from initial restructuring plans or subsequent information that may come to our attention. For example, actual severance costs may be less than anticipated if employees voluntarily leave prior to the time at which they would be entitled to severance, or if anticipated legal hurdles in foreign jurisdictions prove to be less onerous than expected. In addition, unanticipated successes or difficulties in terminating leases and other contractual obligations may lead to changes in estimates. When such changes in estimates occur, they are reflected in our consolidated financial statements on our consolidated statement of operations line entitled “restructuring and lease charges (reversals), net.”  

Gains or losses on dispositions. When we record the disposition of an asset or discontinuance of an operation, we make an estimate relative to the amount we expect to realize on the sale or disposition. This   

60  

Table of Contents 

 estimate is based on a variety of factors, including current interest in the market, alternative markets for the assets, and other relevant factors. If anticipated proceeds are less than the current carrying amount of the asset or operation, we record a loss. If anticipated proceeds are greater than the current carrying amount of the asset or operation, we recognize a gain net of expected contingencies when the transaction has been consummated. Accordingly, we may realize amounts different than were first estimated. During the fiscal year ended December 28, 2008, we did not recognize any gains or losses from disposition of fixed assets. We recorded $2.0 million in losses from the disposition of discontinued operations. Any such changes decrease or increase current earnings, and are recorded either against the “gains on disposition” or “discontinued operations” line items appearing in our consolidated statement of operations.  

Income taxes. Our business operations are global in nature, and we are subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions. Tax laws and tax rates vary substantially in these jurisdictions, and are subject to change given the political and economic climate in those countries. We report and pay income tax based on operational results and applicable law. Our tax provision contemplates tax rates currently in effect to determine both our current and deferred tax provisions. Any significant fluctuation in rates or changes in tax laws could cause our estimates of taxes we anticipate either paying or recovering in the future to change. Such changes could lead to either increases or decreases in our effective tax rate.  

Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related tax assets and liabilities. In the ordinary course of our business, there are operational decisions, transactions, facts and circumstances, and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is not certain. Furthermore, our tax positions are periodically subject to challenge by taxing authorities throughout the world. Every quarter we review our tax positions in each significant taxing jurisdiction in the process of evaluating our unrecognized tax benefits as required by FIN No. 48. Adjustments are made to our unrecognized tax benefits when: (i) facts and circumstances regarding a tax position change, causing a change in our judgment regarding that tax position; (ii) a tax position is ultimately settled with a tax authority; and/or (iii) the statute of limitations expires regarding a tax position. Any significant impact as a result of changes in underlying facts, law, tax rates, tax audit, or review could lead to adjustments to our income tax expense, our effective tax rate, or our cash flow.  

Additionally, in accordance with SFAS No. 109, we have established valuation allowances against a variety of deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards, foreign tax credits, other income tax credits and certain pension accruals. Valuation allowances take into consideration our ability to use these deferred tax assets and reduce the value of such items to the amount that is deemed more likely than not to be recoverable. Improvements or other changes in our operations, domestically and internationally, could increase our ability to utilize these tax attributes in the future. The release of valuation allowances in periods when these tax attributes become realizable would reduce our effective tax rate.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk