Item 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This discussion and analysis below for Darden Restaurants, Inc. (Darden, the Company, we, us or our) should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related financial statement notes included in Part II of this report under the caption “Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” We operate on a 52/53-week fiscal year, which ends on the last Sunday in May. Fiscal 2018, which ended May 27, 2018, consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2017, which ended May 28, 2017, consisted of 52 weeks and fiscal 2016, which ended May 29, 2016, consisted of 52 weeks. 

OVERVIEW OF OPERATIONS 

Our business operates in the full-service dining segment of the restaurant industry. At May 27, 2018, we operated 1,746 restaurants through subsidiaries in the United States and Canada under the Olive Garden®, LongHorn Steakhouse®, Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen®, Yard House®, The Capital Grille®, Bahama Breeze®, Seasons 52® and Eddie V’s Prime Seafood® trademarks. We own and operate all of our restaurants in the United States and Canada, except for 3 joint venture restaurants managed by us and 36 franchised restaurants. We also have 35 franchised restaurants in operation located in Latin America, the Middle East and Malaysia. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

On April 24, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen for $799.8 million in total consideration. The acquired operations of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen included 140 company-owned restaurants and 25 franchised restaurants. On August 28, 2017, we completed the acquisition of 11 Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen franchised restaurants from an existing franchisee. The results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen are included in our consolidated financial statements as of the date of acquisition. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report) for further details.

We believe that capable operators of strong, multi-unit brands have the opportunity to increase their share of the restaurant industry’s full-service segment. Generally, the restaurant industry is considered to be comprised of three segments: quick service, fast casual, and full service. All of our restaurants fall within the full-service segment, which is highly fragmented and includes many independent operators and small chains. We believe we have strong brands and that the breadth and depth of our experience and expertise sets us apart in the full-service segment of the restaurant industry. This collective capability is the product of investments over many years in areas that are critical to success in our business, including restaurant operations excellence, brand management excellence, supply chain, talent management and information technology, among other things.

With a focus on growing same-restaurant sales, we’ve implemented a “Back-to-Basics” approach rooted in strong operating fundamentals. We’re focused on improving culinary innovation and execution inside each of our brands, delivering attentive service to each and every one of our guests, and creating an inviting and engaging atmosphere inside our restaurants. We support these priorities with smart and relevant integrated marketing programs that resonate with our guests. By delivering on these operational and brand-building imperatives, we expect to increase our market share through new restaurant and same-restaurant sales growth and deliver best-in-class profitability.

The Darden support structure enables our brands to achieve their ultimate potential through: (1) driving advantages in supply chain and general and administrative support; (2) applying insights collected from our significant guest and transactional databases to enhance guest relationships and identify new opportunities to drive sales growth; (3) relentlessly driving operating efficiencies and continuous improvement, operating with a sense of urgency and inspiring a performance-driven culture; and (4) our commitment to rigorous strategic planning.

We seek to increase profits by leveraging our fixed and semi-fixed costs with sales from new restaurants and increased guest traffic and sales at existing restaurants. To evaluate our operations and assess our financial performance, we monitor a number of operating measures, with a special focus on two key factors: 

•Same-restaurant sales – which is a year-over-year 52-week comparison of each period’s sales volumes for restaurants open at least 16 months, including recently acquired restaurants, regardless of when the restaurants were acquired; and

•Segment profit – which is restaurant sales, less food and beverage costs, restaurant labor costs, restaurant expenses and marketing expenses (sometimes referred to as restaurant-level earnings).

Increasing same-restaurant sales can improve segment profit because these incremental sales provide better leverage of our fixed and semi-fixed restaurant-level costs. A restaurant brand can generate same-restaurant sales increases through increases in guest traffic, increases in the average guest check, or a combination of the two. The average guest check can be impacted by menu price changes and by the mix of menu items sold. For each restaurant brand, we gather daily sales data and regularly analyze the guest traffic counts and the mix of menu items sold to aid in developing menu pricing, product offerings and promotional strategies. We focus on balancing our pricing and product offerings with other initiatives to produce sustainable same-restaurant 

27

sales growth. We compute same-restaurant sales using restaurants open at least 16 months because this period is generally required for new restaurant sales levels to normalize. Sales at newly opened restaurants generally do not make a significant contribution to profitability in their initial months of operation due to operating inefficiencies. Our sales and expenses can be impacted significantly by the number and timing of new restaurant openings and closings, and relocations and remodeling of existing restaurants. Pre-opening expenses each period reflect the costs associated with opening new restaurants in current and future periods. 

Fiscal 2018 Financial Highlights

Our sales from continuing operations were $8.08 billion in fiscal 2018 compared to $7.17 billion in fiscal 2017. The 12.7 percent increase in sales from continuing operations was primarily driven by revenue from the 151 acquired Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen restaurants, a combined Darden same-restaurant sales increase of 2.3 percent, excluding Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen, and the addition of 40 net new company-owned restaurants. 

Net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2018 were $603.8 million ($4.79 per diluted share) compared with net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2017 of $482.5 million ($3.83 per diluted share). Net earnings and diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2018 increased 25.1 percent compared with fiscal 2017. 

Our net loss from discontinued operations was $7.8 million ($0.06 per diluted share) for fiscal 2018, compared with a net loss from discontinued operations of $3.4 million ($0.03 per diluted share) for fiscal 2017. When combined with results from continuing operations, our diluted net earnings per share were $4.73 and $3.80 for fiscal 2018 and 2017, respectively. 

Outlook

We expect fiscal 2019 sales from continuing operations to increase between 4.0 percent and 5.0 percent driven by combined Darden same-restaurant sales growth of 1.0 percent to 2.0 percent and approximately 45 to 50 new restaurants. In fiscal 2019, we expect our annual effective tax rate to be between 11.0 percent and 12.0 percent and we expect capital expenditures incurred to build new restaurants, remodel and maintain existing restaurants and technology initiatives to be between $425.0 million and $475.0 million.

In June 2018, we announced a quarterly dividend of $0.75 per share, payable on August 1, 2018. Based on the $0.75 quarterly dividend declaration, our expected annual dividend is $3.00 per share, which reflects an increase of 19.0 percent compared to our fiscal 2018 annual dividend. Dividends are subject to the approval of our Board of Directors and, accordingly, the timing and amount of our dividends are subject to change. 

There are significant risks and challenges that could impact our operations and ability to increase sales and earnings. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive and sensitive to economic cycles and other business factors, including changes in consumer tastes and dietary habits. Other risks and uncertainties are discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

28

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL 2018, 2017 AND 2016 

To facilitate review of our results of operations, the following table sets forth our financial results for the periods indicated. All information is derived from the consolidated statements of earnings for the fiscal years ended May 27, 2018, May 28, 2017 and May 29, 2016: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table details the number of company-owned restaurants currently reported in continuing operations, compared with the number open at the end of fiscal 2017 and the end of fiscal 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes six locations in Canada for all periods presented.

(2)Includes the 140 restaurants acquired on April 24, 2017 and the 11 restaurants acquired on August 28, 2017. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29

SALES 

The following table presents our company-owned restaurant sales and U.S. same-restaurant sales (SRS) by brand for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Same-restaurant sales is a year-over-year comparison of each period’s sales volumes for a 52-week year and is limited to restaurants open at least 16 months.

(2)Fiscal 2017 Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen sales from company-owned restaurants are reflected for the period April 24, 2017 through May 28, 2017.

The following table presents our average annual sales per restaurant by brand for the periods indicated. Average annual sales are calculated as net sales divided by total restaurant operating weeks multiplied by 52 weeks.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Fiscal 2017 excludes Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen due to the proximity of the acquisition to our fiscal year end.

Olive Garden’s sales increase for fiscal 2018 was primarily driven by a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase combined with revenue from new restaurants. The increase in U.S. same-restaurant sales in fiscal 2018 resulted from a 2.2 percent increase in average check combined with a 0.2 percent increase in same-restaurant guest counts. Olive Garden’s sales increase for fiscal 2017 was driven by a U.S. same-restaurant sales increase. The increase in U.S. same-restaurant sales in fiscal 2017 resulted from a 2.4 percent increase in average check combined with a 0.2 percent increase in same-restaurant guest counts. 

LongHorn Steakhouse’s sales increase for fiscal 2018 was driven by a same-restaurant sales increase combined with revenue from new restaurants. The increase in same-restaurant sales in fiscal 2018 resulted from a 2.4 percent increase in average check combined with a 0.3 percent increase in same-restaurant guest counts. LongHorn Steakhouse’s sales increase for fiscal 2017 was driven by a same-restaurant sales increase combined with revenue from new restaurants. The increase in same-restaurant sales in fiscal 2017 resulted from a 1.6 percent increase in average check partially offset by a 0.4 percent decrease in same-restaurant guest counts. 

In total, Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen, Yard House, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze, Seasons 52 and Eddie V’s generated sales in fiscal 2018 and 2017 that were 43.5 percent and 6.7 percent above fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, respectively. The sales increase for fiscal 2018 was primarily driven by the Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen acquisition and the incremental sales from new Yard House, Bahama Breeze and Eddie V’s restaurants. Sales growth also reflected same-restaurant sales increases at Yard House, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Eddie V’s in fiscal 2018, partially offset by a same-restaurant sales decrease at 

30

Seasons 52. The sales increase for fiscal 2017 was primarily driven by the Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen acquisition and the incremental sales from new Yard House restaurants. Sales growth also reflected same-restaurant sales increases at The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Eddie V’s in fiscal 2017, partially offset by a same-restaurant sales decrease at Yard House. 

COSTS AND EXPENSES 

The following table sets forth selected operating data as a percent of sales from continuing operations for the periods indicated. This information is derived from the consolidated statements of earnings for the fiscal years ended May 27, 2018, May 28, 2017 and May 29, 2016. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total operating costs and expenses from continuing operations were $7.31 billion in fiscal 2018, $6.49 billion in fiscal 2017 and $6.31 billion in fiscal 2016. As a percent of sales, total costs and expenses from continuing operations were 90.5 percent in fiscal 2018, 90.6 percent in fiscal 2017 and 91.0 percent in fiscal 2016. 

Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017:

•Food and beverage costs decreased as a percent of sales due to a 0.4% impact from pricing and a 0.4% impact related to cost savings initiatives, partially offset by a 0.3% impact from unfavorable menu mix and inflation. 

•Restaurant labor costs increased as a percent of sales primarily due to a 0.9% impact from wage-rate inflation, a 0.4% impact from Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen’s higher labor costs relative to Darden legacy brands and a 0.2% impact related to workforce investment costs, partially offset by a 0.8% impact from sales leverage. 

•Marketing expenses decreased as a percent of sales, primarily due to sales leverage. 

•General and administrative expenses decreased as a percent of sales primarily due to a 0.2% impact from sales leverage and a 0.3% impact from a pension settlement charge incurred in fiscal 2017, partially offset by a 0.1% impact from expenses related to the integration of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen. 

Fiscal 2017 Compared to Fiscal 2016:

•Food and beverage costs decreased as a percent of sales due to a 0.5% impact from pricing, a 0.3% impact related to cost savings initiatives and a 0.3% impact from food cost deflation, partially offset by a 0.5% impact from unfavorable menu mix. 

•Restaurant labor costs were flat as a percent of sales as a 0.9% impact from wage-rate inflation was offset by a 0.9% impact from sales leverage and improved productivity. 

•Restaurant expenses (which include rent, utilities, repairs and maintenance, credit card, property tax, workers’ compensation, new restaurant pre-opening and other restaurant-level operating expenses) increased as a percent of sales, 

31

primarily due to a 0.8% impact from rent expense resulting from leasebacks of properties included in the spin-off of Four Corners Property Trust (Four Corners) and individual sale-leasebacks (collectively, real estate transactions), partially offset by a 0.4% impact from sales leverage.

•General and administrative expenses decreased as a percent of sales, primarily due to a 0.7% impact from expenses incurred in fiscal 2016 related to the real estate plan implementation partially offset by a 0.3% impact from a pension settlement charge incurred in fiscal 2017 and a 0.2% impact from expenses incurred in fiscal 2017 related to the acquisition and integration of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen.

•Depreciation and amortization expense decreased as a percent of sales primarily from the impact of the real estate transactions.

INTEREST EXPENSE

Net interest expense increased as a percent of sales in fiscal 2018 primarily due to debt retirement costs of $102.2 million associated with the retirement of $310.9 million aggregate principal amount of long-term debt. Net interest expense decreased as a percent of sales in fiscal 2017 primarily due to debt retirement costs of $106.8 million recorded in fiscal 2016 and lower average debt balances in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016 due to the repayment of debt with proceeds from the real estate transactions and additional cash on hand. 

INCOME TAXES 

The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Act) was enacted on December 22, 2017, and includes, among other items, a reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35.0 percent to 21.0 percent effective January 1, 2018. Our federal corporate income tax rate for fiscal 2018 was 29.4 percent and represents a blended income tax rate for the current fiscal year. For fiscal 2019, our federal corporate income tax rate will be 21.0 percent. Additionally, for the fiscal year ended May 27, 2018, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 740, we remeasured our deferred tax balances to reflect the reduced rate that will apply when these deferred taxes are settled or realized in future periods. The remeasurement resulted in a $79.3 million one-time adjustment of our net deferred tax liabilities reflected in our consolidated balance sheet as of May 27, 2018 and a corresponding income tax benefit reflected in our consolidated statements of earnings for the fiscal year ended May 27, 2018. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 which allows companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period that is similar to the measurement period used when accounting for business combinations. While we are able to make a reasonable estimate of the impacts of the Tax Act, adjustments may occur and may be affected by other factors, including, but not limited to, further refinement of our calculations, changes in interpretations and assumptions and regulatory changes from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and various tax jurisdictions.

The effective income tax rates for fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016 for continuing operations were 0.3 percent, 24.3 percent and 20.0 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective income tax rate for fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the Tax Act and lower earnings before income taxes for fiscal 2018 driven primarily by debt retirement costs. The increase in our effective income tax rate for fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016 was primarily due to higher earnings before income taxes. 

NET EARNINGS AND NET EARNINGS PER SHARE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 

Net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2018 were $603.8 million ($4.79 per diluted share) compared with net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2017 of $482.5 million ($3.83 per diluted share) and net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2016 of $359.7 million ($2.78 per diluted share). 

Net earnings and diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations for fiscal 2018 increased 25.1 percent compared with fiscal 2017. Our diluted per share results from continuing operations for fiscal 2018 were positively impacted by the Tax Act, by approximately $0.30 due to the lower federal corporate tax rate enacted during the third quarter of fiscal 2018, partially offset by approximately $0.10 related to workforce investments. Our diluted per share results from continuing operations for fiscal 2018 were also positively impacted by the Tax Act, by approximately $0.62 due to a net benefit from deferred tax revaluation. Our diluted per share results from continuing operations for fiscal 2018 were adversely impacted by approximately $0.54 related to debt retirement costs and approximately $0.10 related to costs associated with the integration of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen.

Net earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2017 increased 34.1 percent and diluted net earnings per share from continuing operations increased 37.8 percent compared with fiscal 2016. Our diluted per share results from continuing operations for fiscal 2017 were adversely impacted by approximately $0.10 due to a non-cash pension settlement charge and approximately $0.09 related to the acquisition and integration of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen.

32

EARNINGS (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 

On an after-tax basis, results from discontinued operations for fiscal 2018 were a net loss of $7.8 million ($0.06 per diluted share) compared with a net loss for fiscal 2017 of $3.4 million ($0.03 per diluted share) and earnings from discontinued operations for fiscal 2016 of $15.3 million ($0.12 per diluted share). Earnings from discontinued operations in fiscal 2016 reflect pre-tax gains of $17.9 million related to the sale of Red Lobster.

SEGMENT RESULTS

We manage our restaurant brands, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen, The Capital Grille, Yard House, Bahama Breeze, Seasons 52 and Eddie V’s in the U.S. and Canada as operating segments. We aggregate our operating segments into reportable segments based on a combination of the size, economic characteristics and sub-segment of full-service dining within which each brand operates. Our four reportable segments are: (1) Olive Garden, (2) LongHorn Steakhouse, (3) Fine Dining and (4) Other Business. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report) for further details.

Our management uses segment profit as the measure for assessing performance of our segments. The following table presents segment profit margin for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in the Olive Garden segment profit margin for fiscal 2018 was driven primarily by leveraging positive same-restaurant sales. The decrease in Olive Garden’s segment profit margin for fiscal 2017 was driven primarily by additional rent expense resulting from the real estate transactions. The increase in the LongHorn segment profit margin for fiscal 2018 was driven primarily by leveraging positive same-restaurant sales. LongHorn’s segment profit margins for fiscal 2017 were flat as additional rent expense resulting from the real estate transactions was offset by food cost deflation. The increase in the Fine Dining segment profit margin for fiscal 2018 was driven primarily by leveraging positive same-restaurant sales. The increase in Fine Dining’s segment profit margins for fiscal 2017 was driven primarily by food cost deflation, primarily beef, partially offset by higher restaurant expenses. The decrease in Other Business’ segment profit margin for fiscal 2018 was primarily driven by the impact of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen’s margin mix and the shift of consumer-packaged goods revenue from the Other Business segment to primarily the Olive Garden segment. The Other Business segment profit margins for fiscal 2017 were flat as food cost deflation was offset by higher labor costs.

SEASONALITY 

Our sales volumes fluctuate seasonally. Typically, our average sales per restaurant are highest in the winter and spring, followed by the summer, and lowest in the fall. Holidays, changes in the economy, severe weather and similar conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. 

IMPACT OF INFLATION 

We attempt to minimize the annual effects of inflation through appropriate planning, operating practices and menu price increases. We do not believe inflation had a significant overall effect on our annual results of operations during fiscal 2018, 2017 or 2016.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of sales and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 

Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report). Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies may result in materially 

33

different amounts being reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. We consider the following estimates to be most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing our consolidated financial statements. 

Leases 

We evaluate our leases at their inception to estimate their expected term, which commences on the date when we have the right to control the use of the leased property and includes the non-cancelable base term plus all option periods we are reasonably assured to exercise. Our judgment in determining the appropriate expected term for each lease affects our evaluation of: 

•The classification and accounting for leases as capital versus operating; 

•The rent holidays and escalation in payments that are included in the calculation of straight-line rent; and

•The term over which leasehold improvements for each restaurant facility are amortized. 

These judgments may produce materially different amounts of depreciation, amortization and rent expense than would be reported if different expected lease terms were used. 

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets 

Land, buildings and equipment and certain other assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The judgments we make related to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets, definitions of lease terms and our ability to realize undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying amounts of these assets are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in usage or operating performance, desirability of the restaurant sites and other factors, such as our ability to sell our assets held for sale. As we assess the ongoing expected cash flows and carrying amounts of our long-lived assets, significant adverse changes in these factors could cause us to realize an impairment loss. Based on a review of operating results for each of our restaurants, the amount of net book value associated with lower performing restaurants that would be deemed at risk for impairment is not material to our consolidated financial statements.

Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill and Trademarks 

Goodwill and trademarks are not subject to amortization and have been assigned to reporting units for purposes of impairment testing. The reporting units are our restaurant brands. At May 27, 2018, we had the following amounts recorded as goodwill and trademarks at our brands:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Such indicators may include, among others: a significant decline in our expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and slower growth rates. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

We performed our annual impairment test of our goodwill and trademarks as of the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter using a qualitative assessment. In considering the qualitative approach, we evaluated factors including, but not limited to, macro-economic conditions, market and industry conditions, commodity cost fluctuations, competitive environment, share price 

34

performance, results of prior impairment tests, operational stability and the overall financial performance of the reporting units. Based on the results of our qualitative assessment, no impairment of goodwill or trademarks was indicated. Changes in circumstances existing at the measurement date or at other times in the future, or in the numerous estimates associated with management’s judgments and assumptions made in assessing the fair value of our goodwill and trademarks, could result in an impairment loss of a portion or all of our goodwill or trademarks. As we finalized the purchase price allocation for Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen during our fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, we excluded the goodwill and trademark related to Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen from our qualitative assessment.

If our annual test resulted in an impairment of our goodwill or trademarks, our financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected and our leverage ratio for purposes of our credit agreement would increase. A leverage ratio exceeding the maximum permitted under our credit agreement would be a default under our credit agreement. At May 27, 2018, a write-down of goodwill, other indefinite-lived intangible assets, or any other assets in excess of approximately $1.12 billion would have been required to cause our leverage ratio to exceed the permitted maximum. As our leverage ratio is determined on a quarterly basis, and due to the seasonal nature of our business, a lesser amount of impairment in future quarters could cause our leverage ratio to exceed the permitted maximum. 

Unearned Revenues 

Unearned revenues represent our liability for gift cards that have been sold but not yet redeemed. The estimated value of gift cards expected to remain unused is recognized over the expected period of redemption as the remaining gift card values are redeemed, generally over a period of 12 years. Utilizing this method, we estimate both the amount of breakage and the time period of redemption. If actual redemption patterns vary from our estimates, actual gift card breakage income may differ from the amounts recorded. We update our estimates of our redemption period and our breakage rate periodically and apply that rate to gift card redemptions. Changing our breakage-rate assumption on unredeemed gift cards by 25 basis points would result in an adjustment in our unearned revenues of approximately $23.0 million. 

Income Taxes 

We estimate certain components of our provision for income taxes. These estimates include, among other items, depreciation and amortization expense allowable for tax purposes, allowable tax credits for items such as taxes paid on reported employee tip income, effective rates for state and local income taxes and the tax deductibility of certain other items. We adjust our annual effective income tax rate as additional information on outcomes or events becomes available. 

Assessment of uncertain tax positions requires judgments relating to the amounts, timing and likelihood of resolution. As described in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report), the $17.4 million balance of unrecognized state tax benefits at May 27, 2018, includes $2.0 million related to tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that the total amounts could change during the next 12 months based on the outcome of examinations. The $2.0 million relates to items that would impact our effective income tax rate. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

Cash flows generated from operating activities are our principal source of liquidity, which we use to finance capital expenditures for new restaurants and to remodel and maintain existing restaurants, to pay dividends to our shareholders and to repurchase shares of our common stock. Since substantially all of our sales are for cash and cash equivalents, and accounts payable are generally due in 5 to 45 days, we are able to carry current liabilities in excess of current assets. In addition to cash flows from operations, we use a combination of long-term and short-term borrowings to fund our capital needs. 

We currently manage our business and financial ratios to target an investment-grade bond rating, which has historically allowed flexible access to financing at reasonable costs. Our publicly issued long-term debt currently carries the following ratings:

•Moody’s Investors Service “Baa2”; 

•Standard & Poor’s “BBB”; and

•Fitch “BBB”. 

Our commercial paper has ratings of:

•Moody’s Investors Service “P-2”; 

•Standard & Poor’s “A-2”; and 

•Fitch “F-2”.

35

These ratings are as of the date of the filing of this report and have been obtained with the understanding that Moody’s Investors Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch will continue to monitor our credit and make future adjustments to these ratings to the extent warranted. The ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our securities, may be changed, superseded or withdrawn at any time and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

On October 27, 2017, we entered into a new $750.0 million revolving credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (BOA), as administrative agent, and the lenders and other agents party thereto. The Revolving Credit Agreement is a senior unsecured credit commitment to the Company and contains customary representations and affirmative and negative covenants (including limitations on liens and subsidiary debt and a maximum consolidated lease adjusted total debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.75 to 1.00) and events of default usual for credit facilities of this type. The Revolving Credit Agreement replaced our prior $750.0 million revolving credit agreement, dated as of October 3, 2011 and amended as of October 24, 2013. As of May 27, 2018, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Revolving Credit Agreement. 

The Revolving Credit Agreement matures on October 27, 2022, and the proceeds may be used for working capital and capital expenditures, the refinancing of certain indebtedness, certain acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Loans under the Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate of LIBOR plus a margin determined by reference to a ratings-based pricing grid (Applicable Margin), or the base rate (which is defined as the highest of the BOA prime rate, the Federal Funds rate plus 0.500 percent, and the Eurocurrency Rate plus 1.00 percent) plus the Applicable Margin. Assuming a “BBB” equivalent credit rating level, the Applicable Margin under the Revolving Credit Agreement will be 1.000 percent for LIBOR loans and 0 percent for base rate loans. As of May 27, 2018, we had no outstanding balances under the Revolving Credit Agreement. 

At May 27, 2018, our long-term debt consisted principally of: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

On February 22, 2018, we completed the issuance of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured 4.550 percent senior notes due in February 2048 under a registration statement filed with the SEC on October 6, 2016. Discount and issuance costs, which totaled $3.7 million, are being amortized over the term of the notes using the straight-line method, the results of which approximate the effective interest method. Interest on the notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 15 and August 15 of each year commencing August 15, 2018. We may redeem the notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the principal amount plus a make-whole premium. If we experience a change in control triggering event, unless we have previously exercised our right to redeem the notes, we may be required to purchase the notes from the holders at a purchase price equal to 101 percent of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. We utilized the proceeds from this issuance, along with cash on hand, to retire $310.9 million aggregate principal amount of long-term debt consisting of:

•$53.7 million of unsecured 6.000 percent senior notes due in August 2035; and

•$257.2 million of unsecured 6.800 percent senior notes due in October 2037.

During fiscal 2018, we recorded approximately $102.2 million of expenses associated with the retirements, including cash costs of approximately $97.3 million, primarily for repurchase premiums and non-cash charges of approximately $4.9 million associated with loan cost write-offs. These amounts were recorded in interest, net in our consolidated statements of earnings.

The interest rate on our $42.8 million 6.800 percent senior notes due October 2037 is subject to adjustment from time to time if the debt rating assigned to such series of notes is downgraded below a certain rating level (or subsequently upgraded). The maximum adjustment is 2.000 percent above the initial interest rate and the interest rate cannot be reduced below the initial interest rate. As of May 27, 2018, no such adjustments are made to this rate. 

Through our shelf registration statement on file with the SEC, depending on conditions prevailing in the public capital markets, we may issue unsecured debt securities from time to time in one or more series, which may consist of notes, debentures or other evidences of indebtedness in one or more offerings. 

From time to time, we may repurchase our outstanding debt in privately negotiated transactions. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements and other factors. 

36

From time to time, we enter into interest rate derivative instruments to manage interest rate risk inherent in our operations. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report). 

A summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments at May 27, 2018, is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes interest payments associated with existing long-term debt, including the current portion. Excludes discount and issuance costs of $12.6 million. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(3)Includes commitments for food and beverage items and supplies, capital projects, information technology and other miscellaneous commitments.

(4)Includes expected contributions associated with our defined benefit plans and payments associated with our postretirement benefit plan and our non-qualified deferred compensation plan through fiscal 2028.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(7)Consists solely of guarantees associated with leased properties that have been assigned to third parties and are primarily related to the disposition of Red Lobster. We are not aware of any non-performance under these arrangements that would result in our having to perform in accordance with the terms of the guarantees.

37

Our fixed-charge coverage ratio, which measures the number of times each year that we earn enough to cover our fixed charges, amounted to 3.1 times and 5.0 times, on a continuing operations basis, for the fiscal years ended May 27, 2018 and May 28, 2017, respectively. Our adjusted debt to adjusted total capital ratio as of May 27, 2018 (which includes 6.00 times the combined total annual minimum rent for operating leases and annual minimum lease payments for financing leases on a consolidated basis of $342.7 million, as a component of adjusted debt and adjusted total capital) was 60 percent. Our adjusted debt to adjusted total capital ratio as of May 28, 2017 (which includes 6.25 times the combined total annual minimum rent for operating leases and annual minimum lease payments for financing leases on a consolidated basis of $303.5 million, as a component of adjusted debt and adjusted total capital) was 59 percent. We include the lease-debt equivalent and contractual lease guarantees in our adjusted debt to adjusted total capital ratio reported to shareholders, as we believe its inclusion better represents the optimal capital structure that we target from period to period and because it is consistent with the calculation of the covenant under our Revolving Credit Agreement. 

Based on these ratios, we believe our financial condition is strong. The composition of our capital structure is shown in the following table: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations were $1.02 billion, $916.3 million and $820.4 million in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Net cash flows provided by operating activities include net earnings from continuing operations of $603.8 million, $482.5 million and $359.7 million in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased in fiscal 2018 primarily due to higher net earnings from continuing operations. Net cash flows provided by operating activities from continuing operations increased in fiscal 2017 primarily due to higher net earnings from continuing operations partially offset by the timing of payments of accounts payable and current period activity of taxable timing differences. 

Net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations were $451.1 million in fiscal 2018 compared to net cash flows used in investing activities from continuing operations of $1.07 billion in fiscal 2017 and net cash flows provided by investing activities from continuing operations of $75.4 million in fiscal 2016. Capital expenditures incurred principally for building new restaurants, remodeling existing restaurants, replacing equipment, and technology initiatives were $396.0 million in fiscal 2018, compared to $293.0 million in fiscal 2017 and $228.3 million in fiscal 2016. Additionally, for fiscal 2018, net cash used in the acquisition of 11 Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen restaurants from an existing franchisee was $40.4 million. For fiscal 2017, net cash used in the acquisition of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen was $764.4 million. For fiscal 2016, proceeds from the disposal of land, buildings and equipment of $325.2 million reflect the impact of closed sale-leaseback transactions. 

Net cash flows used in financing activities from continuing operations were $636.6 million in fiscal 2018, compared to net cash flows provided by financing activities from continuing operations of $129.2 million in fiscal 2017 and net cash flows used in financing activities from continuing operations $1.12 billion in fiscal 2016. Net cash flows used in financing activities in fiscal 2018 reflected long-term debt payments of $408.2 million, including repurchase premiums and make-whole provisions, 

38

repayments of short-term debt of $960.0 million, dividend payments of $313.5 million and share repurchases of $234.8 million, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of short-term debt of $960.0 million, proceeds from the issuance of $300.0 million of senior notes and proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options. Net cash flows provided by financing activities in fiscal 2017 reflect proceeds from the issuance of $500.0 million of senior notes and proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options, partially offset by dividend payments of $279.1 million and share repurchases of $230.2 million. Net cash flows used in financing activities in fiscal 2016 reflected long-term debt payments of $1.10 billion, including repurchase premiums and make-whole provisions, dividend payments of $268.2 million, and share repurchases of $184.8 million partially offset by the $315.0 million cash dividend received by us from Four Corners. 

Our defined benefit and other postretirement benefit costs and liabilities are determined using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies prescribed under Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 715, Compensation - Retirement Benefits and Topic 712, Compensation - Nonretirement Postemployment Benefits. We use certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the selection of a discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. We set the discount rate assumption annually for each plan at its valuation date to reflect the yield of high-quality fixed-income debt instruments, with lives that approximate the maturity of the plan benefits. At May 27, 2018, our discount rate was 4.32 percent and 4.28 percent, respectively, for our defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based upon several factors, including our historical assumptions compared with actual results, an analysis of current market conditions, asset allocations and the views of leading financial advisers and economists. Our expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for our defined benefit plans was 5.75 percent for fiscal year 2018, 6.5 percent for fiscal year 2017 and 6.5 percent for fiscal year 2016. We made defined benefit plans contributions of approximately $60.8 million, $0.4 million and $25.4 million in fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We expect to contribute approximately $0.4 million to our defined benefit pension plans and approximately $1.4 million to our postretirement benefit plan during fiscal 2019. In April 2018, our Benefit Plans Committee approved the termination of our primary non-contributory defined benefit pension plan (the Retirement Income Plan for Darden Restaurants, Inc.). The termination of the plan involves many steps, including filing information with the IRS and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and obtaining proper approvals. We anticipate the termination process, which culminates in either the settlement or transfer of participant benefits, will take approximately two years to complete. 

We have recognized net losses of $85.4 million (net of tax) and of $2.2 million (net of tax) as components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the defined benefit plans and postretirement benefit plan, respectively, as of May 27, 2018. These net losses represent changes in the amount of the projected benefit obligation and plan assets resulting from differences in the assumptions used and actual experience. The amortization of the net loss component of our fiscal 2019 net periodic benefit cost for the defined benefit plans is expected to be approximately $1.9 million (net of tax). The amortization of the net gain component of our fiscal 2019 net periodic benefit cost for the postretirement benefit plan is expected to be approximately $2.4 million (net of tax).

We believe our defined benefit and postretirement benefit plan assumptions are appropriate based upon the factors discussed above. However, other assumptions could also be reasonably applied that could differ from the assumptions used. These changes in assumptions would not significantly impact our funding requirements. 

We are not aware of any trends or events that would materially affect our capital requirements or liquidity. We believe that our internal cash-generating capabilities, the potential issuance of unsecured debt securities under our shelf registration statement and short-term commercial paper should be sufficient to finance our capital expenditures, debt maturities, stock repurchase program and other operating activities through fiscal 2019. 

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 

We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, sales or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 

FINANCIAL CONDITION 

Our total current assets were $553.6 million at May 27, 2018, compared with $587.9 million at May 28, 2017. The decrease was primarily due to the decrease in cash and cash equivalents driven by the repurchase of shares of our common stock. 

Our total current liabilities were $1.38 billion at May 27, 2018, compared with $1.29 billion at May 28, 2017. The increase was primarily due to an increase in unearned revenues associated with gift card sales in excess of redemptions, an increase in accrued payroll related to bonuses and an increase in accounts payable. 

39

APPLICATION OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report) for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards.

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK