PART I

Item 1. BUSINESS

Introduction

Darden Restaurants, Inc. is a full-service restaurant company, and as of May 27, 2018, we owned and operated 1,746 restaurants through subsidiaries in the United States and Canada under the Olive Garden®, LongHorn Steakhouse®, Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen®, Yard House®, The Capital Grille®, Bahama Breeze®, Seasons 52® and Eddie V’s Prime Seafood® trademarks. We served nearly 390 million meals in fiscal 2018. As of May 27, 2018, we also had 71 restaurants operated by independent third parties pursuant to area development and franchise agreements. The following table details the number of company-owned and operated restaurants, as well as those operated under franchise agreements, as of May 27, 2018: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes three restaurants that are owned jointly by us and third parties, and managed by us. 

(2)Includes one company-owned The Capital Burger restaurant.

(3)Includes Puerto Rico.

Darden Restaurants, Inc. is a Florida corporation incorporated in March 1995, and is the parent company of GMRI, Inc., also a Florida corporation. GMRI, Inc. and certain other of our subsidiaries own and operate our restaurants. GMRI, Inc. was originally incorporated in March 1968 as Red Lobster Inns of America, Inc. We were acquired by General Mills, Inc. in 1970 and became a separate publicly held company in 1995 when General Mills distributed all of our outstanding stock to the stockholders of General Mills. Our principal executive offices and restaurant support center are located at 1000 Darden Center Drive, Orlando, Florida 32837, telephone (407) 245-4000. Our corporate website address is www.darden.com. We make our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on our website the same day as the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “Darden,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” include Darden Restaurants, Inc., GMRI, Inc. and our respective subsidiaries.

On April 24, 2017, we completed the acquisition of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen for $799.8 million in total consideration. The acquired operations of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen included 140 company-owned restaurants and 25 franchised restaurants. On August 28, 2017, we completed the acquisition of 11 Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen franchised restaurants from an existing franchisee. The results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen are included in our consolidated financial statements as of the date of acquisition. For additional information, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report).

On November 9, 2015, we completed the spin-off of Four Corners Property Trust, Inc. (Four Corners) with the pro rata distribution of 1 share of common stock for every 3 shares of Darden common stock to Darden shareholders. The separation included the transfer of 418 restaurant properties and 6 LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants to Four Corners. 

We have a 52/53 week fiscal year ending the last Sunday in May. Our fiscal year 2018 ended May 27, 2018 and consisted of 52 weeks, fiscal 2017 ended May 28, 2017 and consisted of 52 weeks, and fiscal 2016 ended May 29, 2016 and consisted of 52 weeks.

1

The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with the information in Part II of this report under the caption “Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Segment Information

We manage our restaurant brands in North America as operating segments. The brands operate principally in the U.S. within full-service dining. We aggregate our operating segments into reportable segments based on a combination of the size, economic characteristics and sub-segment of full-service dining within which each brand operates. We have four reportable segments: 1) Olive Garden, 2) LongHorn Steakhouse, 3) Fine Dining (which includes The Capital Grille and Eddie V’s) and 4) Other Business (which includes Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen, Yard House, Seasons 52, Bahama Breeze and results from our franchise operations). External sales are derived principally from food and beverage sales, we do not rely on any major customers as a source of sales and the customers and long-lived assets of our reportable segments are predominantly in the U.S. There were no material transactions among reportable segments. Additional information about our segments, including financial information, is included in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this report).

Restaurant Brands

Olive Garden

Olive Garden is an internally-developed brand and is the largest full-service dining Italian restaurant operator in the United States. Olive Garden offers a variety of Italian foods featuring fresh ingredients presented simply with a focus on flavor and quality, and a broad selection of imported Italian wines. In 1982, Olive Garden opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida. 

 Most dinner menu entrée prices range from $9.00 to $18.50, and most lunch menu entrée prices range from $7.00 to $14.00. The price of each entrée includes as much fresh salad or soup and breadsticks as a guest desires. During fiscal 2018, the average check per person (defined as total sales divided by number of entrées sold) was approximately $18.50, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 6.7 percent of Olive Garden’s sales. Olive Garden maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children’s menu. 

LongHorn Steakhouse

LongHorn Steakhouse is a full-service steakhouse restaurant with locations primarily in the eastern United States, operating in an atmosphere inspired by the American West. LongHorn Steakhouse opened its first restaurant in 1981 and we acquired LongHorn Steakhouse in October 2007 as part of the RARE Hospitality International, Inc. (RARE) acquisition. LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants feature a variety of menu items including signature fresh steaks and chicken, as well as salmon, shrimp, ribs, pork chops, burgers and prime rib.

Most dinner menu entrée prices range from $12.00 to $28.00, and most lunch menu entrée prices range from $8.00 to $16.00. The price of most entrées includes a side and/or salad and as much freshly baked bread as a guest desires. During fiscal 2018, the average check per person was approximately $21.50, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 9.6 percent of LongHorn Steakhouse’s sales. LongHorn Steakhouse maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children’s menu. 

Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen

Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen is a full service restaurant operating in Texas and throughout the southern, midwestern and mid-Atlantic regions of the United States. The casual dining menu features modern classics and American favorites cooked from scratch. Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen opened its first restaurant in 1979 and we acquired Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen in April 2017.

Most lunch and dinner menu entrée prices at Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen range from $6.99 to $19.99. During fiscal 2018, the average check per person was approximately $13.75, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 9.0 percent of Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen’s sales. Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen features different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children’s menu.

Yard House

Yard House is a full-service restaurant operating in metropolitan areas across the United States and is known for great food, classic rock and over 100 draft beer offerings. The American menu includes more than 100 chef driven items with a wide range of 

2

appetizers, snacks, burgers and steaks, street tacos, salads, sandwiches and a generous selection of vegetarian dishes. Yard House opened its first restaurant in 1996 and we acquired Yard House in August 2012. 

Yard House design elements create a contemporary, yet casual, “come as you are” environment. Most lunch and dinner menu entrée prices at Yard House range from $9.00 to $36.00. During fiscal 2018, the average check per person was approximately $33.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 36.0 percent of Yard House’s sales. Yard House maintains different menus and selections of craft beers across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children’s menu. 

The Capital Grille

The Capital Grille is a fine dining restaurant with locations in major metropolitan cities in the United States featuring relaxed elegance and style. The Capital Grille opened its first restaurant in 1990 and we acquired The Capital Grille in October 2007 as part of the RARE acquisition. Nationally acclaimed for dry aging steaks on the premises, The Capital Grille is also known for fresh seafood flown in daily and culinary specials created by its chefs. The restaurants feature an award-winning wine list offering over 350 selections, personalized service, a comfortable club-like atmosphere, and premiere private dining rooms.

Most dinner menu entrée prices range from $18.00 to $64.00 and most lunch menu entrée prices range from $18.00 to $33.00. During fiscal 2018, the average check per person was approximately $82.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 29.0 percent of The Capital Grille’s sales. The Capital Grille offers different menus for dinner and lunch and varies its wine list to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections. 

Bahama Breeze

Bahama Breeze is an internally-developed full-service restaurant brand operating primarily in the eastern United States, that offers guests the feeling of a Caribbean escape, with food, drinks and atmosphere found in the islands. The menu features distinctive, Caribbean-inspired fresh seafood, chicken and steaks as well as handcrafted tropical cocktails. In 1996, Bahama Breeze opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida. 

Most lunch and dinner menu entrée prices at Bahama Breeze range from $7.00 to $24.00. During fiscal 2018, the average check per person was approximately $29.50, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 23.7 percent of Bahama Breeze’s sales. Bahama Breeze maintains different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a smaller portioned, lower-priced children’s menu. 

Seasons 52

Seasons 52 is an internally-developed full-service restaurant brand operating primarily in the eastern United States, with a casually sophisticated, fresh grill and wine bar that offers a seasonally changing menu inspired by the appeal of a local farmer’s market. The menu includes an international collection of more than 100 wines, with 52 available by the glass, along with exceptional signature handcrafted cocktails. In 2003, Seasons 52 opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida. 

Most dinner menu entrée prices at Seasons 52 range from $14.50 to $32.50, and most lunch entrée prices range from $10.00 to $32.50. During fiscal 2018, the average check per person was approximately $44.50, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 24.9 percent of Seasons 52’s sales. Seasons 52 maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections. 

Eddie V’s

Eddie V’s is a fine dining restaurant with locations in major metropolitan cities in the United States with a sophisticated and contemporary ambiance, featuring live nightly music in the V-Lounge. The menu is inspired by the great classic restaurants of New Orleans, San Francisco and Boston, with an emphasis on prime seafood creations, USDA prime beef and chops, and fresh oyster bar selections. The atmosphere provides a comfortable dining experience “where your pleasure is our sole intention.” Eddie V’s opened its first restaurant in 2000 and we acquired Eddie V’s in November 2011. 

Most dinner menu entrée prices at Eddie V’s range from $27.00 to $96.00. During fiscal 2018, the average check per person was approximately $98.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for 32.1 percent of Eddie V’s sales. Eddie V’s maintains different menus for dinner and varies its wine list to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections. 

3

The following table shows our growth and lists the number of restaurants owned and operated by each of our brands as of the end of the fiscal years indicated. The table excludes our restaurants operated by independent third parties pursuant to area development and franchise agreements. The final column in the table lists our total sales from continuing operations for the fiscal years indicated. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes only restaurants included in continuing operations. Excludes other restaurant brands operated by us in these years that are no longer owned by us, and restaurants that were classified as discontinued operations. 

(2)Includes company-owned synergy restaurants as follows: one in fiscal 2011, one in fiscal 2012, four in fiscal 2013, and four in fiscal 2014. We converted the four synergy restaurants to Olive Garden restaurants in the first quarter of fiscal 2015. 

(3)Includes one The Capital Burger restaurant in fiscal 2018.

Strategy

We believe that capable operators of strong multi-unit brands have the opportunity to increase their share of the restaurant industry’s full-service segment. Generally, the restaurant industry is considered to be comprised of three segments: quick service, fast casual, and full service. All of our restaurants fall within the full-service segment, which is highly fragmented and includes many independent operators and small chains. We believe we have strong brands, and that the breadth and depth of our experience and expertise sets us apart in the full-service restaurant industry. This collective capability is the product of investments over many years in areas that are critical to success in our business, including restaurant operations excellence, brand management excellence, supply chain, talent management and information technology, among other things.

During fiscal 2018, our operating philosophy remained focused on improving the core operational fundamentals of the business by providing an outstanding guest experience rooted in culinary innovation, attentive service, engaging atmosphere, and integrated marketing. Darden enables each brand to reach its full potential by leveraging its scale, insight, and experience in a way that protects uniqueness and competitive advantages. Additionally, brands can capitalize on insights to deliver customized one-to-one customer relationship marketing. We hold ourselves accountable for operating our restaurants with a sense of urgency to achieve our commitments to all of our stakeholders.

4

Recent and Planned Restaurant Growth 

During fiscal 2018, we added 51 net new company-owned restaurants in the United States, including the Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen franchised restaurants acquired in August 2017. Our fiscal 2018 actual restaurant openings and closings, fiscal 2019 projected openings, and approximate capital investment, square footage and dining capacity, by brand, are shown below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Includes the 11 Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen franchised restaurants acquired on August 28, 2017. 

(2)Fiscal 2018 restaurant openings include one The Capital Burger restaurant. Pro-forma new restaurant data excludes The Capital Burger. 

(3)Includes cash investments for building, equipment, furniture and other construction costs; excludes internal capitalized overhead, pre-opening expenses, tenant allowance and future lease obligations. Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse and Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen capital investments are based on costs associated with land-only leases; The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze, Seasons 52, Eddie V’s and Yard House capital investments are based on ground and building leases. Actual costs can vary significantly depending on the specific location.

(4)Includes all space under the roof, including the coolers and freezers.

(5)Includes bar dining seats and patio seating, but excludes bar stools.

The actual number of openings for each of our brands for fiscal 2019 will depend on many factors, including our ability to locate appropriate sites, negotiate acceptable purchase or lease terms, obtain necessary local governmental permits, complete construction, and recruit and train restaurant management and hourly personnel. Our objective is to continue to expand all of our restaurant brands. 

We consider location to be a critical factor in determining a restaurant’s long-term success, and we devote significant effort to the site selection process. Prior to entering a market, we conduct a thorough study to determine the optimal number and placement of restaurants. Our site selection process incorporates a variety of analytical techniques to evaluate key factors. These factors include trade area demographics, such as target population density and household income levels; competitive influences in the trade area; the site’s visibility, accessibility and traffic volume; and proximity to activity centers such as shopping malls, hotel/motel complexes, offices and universities. Members of senior management evaluate, inspect and approve each restaurant site prior to its acquisition. Constructing and opening a new restaurant typically takes approximately 180 days on average after permits are obtained and the site is acquired.

We systematically review the performance of our restaurants to ensure that each one meets our standards. When a restaurant falls below minimum standards, we conduct a thorough analysis to determine the causes, and implement marketing and operational plans to improve that restaurant’s performance. If performance does not improve to acceptable levels, the restaurant is evaluated for relocation, closing or conversion to one of our other brands. Permanent closures are typically due to economic changes in trade areas, the expiration of lease agreements, or site concerns. Accordingly, we continue to evaluate our site locations in order to minimize the risk of future closures or asset impairment charges. 

Restaurant Operations

We believe that high-quality restaurant management is critical to our long-term success. Our restaurant management structure varies by brand and restaurant size. We issue detailed operations manuals covering all aspects of restaurant operations, 

5

as well as food and beverage manuals which detail the preparation procedures of our recipes. The restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each restaurant and for ensuring compliance with our operating standards.

Each Olive Garden restaurant is led by a general manager, and each LongHorn Steakhouse restaurant is led by a managing partner. Each also has three to five additional managers, depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of the restaurant. In addition, each restaurant typically employs an average of 80 to 120 hourly team members, most of whom work part-time. Restaurant general managers or managing partners report to a director of operations who is responsible for approximately seven to ten restaurants. Each director of operations of Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse reports to a Senior Vice President of Operations who is responsible for up to one hundred restaurants. Restaurants are visited regularly by operations management, including officer level executives, to help ensure strict adherence to all aspects of our standards. 

Each Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen restaurant is led by a managing partner. Each also has two to six managers and one to two culinary managers. In addition, each restaurant typically employs an average of 65 to 150 hourly team members, most of whom work part-time. The managing partner of each restaurant reports directly to a director of operations, who has operational responsibility for approximately three to ten restaurants. Restaurants are visited regularly by operations management, including officer level executives, to help ensure strict adherence to all aspects of our standards.

Each Bahama Breeze and Yard House restaurant is led by a general manager, and each The Capital Grille, Seasons 52 and Eddie V’s restaurant is led by a managing partner. Each also has two to eight managers. Each The Capital Grille, Yard House, Seasons 52 and Eddie V’s restaurant has one to three executive chefs, and one to two sous chefs, and each Bahama Breeze restaurant has one to three culinary managers. In addition, each restaurant typically employs an average of 65 to 200 hourly team members, most of whom work part-time. The general manager or managing partner of each restaurant reports directly to a director of operations, who has operational responsibility for approximately three to ten restaurants. Restaurants are visited regularly by operations management, including officer level executives, to help ensure strict adherence to all aspects of our standards. 

Our Learning and Employee Development team in partnership with each brand’s training leader, together with senior operations executives, is responsible for developing and maintaining our operations training programs. These efforts include a 10 to 12-week training program for management trainees and continuing development programs for all levels of leadership. The emphasis of the training and development programs varies by restaurant brand, but includes leadership, restaurant business management and culinary skills. We also use a highly structured training program to open new restaurants, including deploying training teams experienced in all aspects of restaurant operations. The opening training teams typically begin work one and a half weeks prior to opening and remain at the new restaurant for up to three weeks after the opening. They are re-deployed as appropriate to enable a smooth transition to the restaurant’s operating staff.

We maintain performance measurement and incentive compensation programs for our management-level team members. We believe that our leadership position, strong results-oriented culture and various short-term and long-term incentive programs, including stock-based compensation, enhances our ability to attract and retain highly motivated restaurant managers.

Quality Assurance 

Our Total Quality Department helps ensure that all restaurants provide safe, high-quality food in a clean and safe environment. Through rigorous supplier and risk-based product evaluations, we purchase only products that meet or exceed our product specifications. We rely on independent third parties to inspect and evaluate our suppliers and distributors. Suppliers that produce “high-risk” products are subject to a food safety evaluation by Darden personnel at least annually. We require our suppliers to maintain sound manufacturing practices and operate with the comprehensive Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) food safety programs and risk-based preventative controls adopted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. These programs focus on preventing hazards that could cause food-borne illnesses by applying scientifically-based controls to analyze hazards, identify and monitor critical control points, and establish corrective actions when monitoring shows that a critical limit has not been met. We require routine food safety verification for high-risk products from our suppliers. Our total quality managers and third party auditors visit each restaurant regularly throughout the year to review food handling and to provide education and training in food safety and sanitation. The total quality managers also serve as a liaison to regulatory agencies on issues relating to food safety.

Purchasing and Distribution

Our ability to ensure a consistent supply of safe, high-quality food and supplies at competitive prices to all of our restaurant brands depends on reliable sources of procurement. Our purchasing staff sources, negotiates and purchases food and supplies from more than 1,500 suppliers whose products originate in more than 35 countries. Suppliers must meet our requirements and 

6

strict quality control standards in the development, harvest, catch and production of food products. Competitive bids, long-term contracts and strategic supplier relationships are routinely used to manage availability and cost of products.

We believe that our significant scale is a competitive advantage and our purchasing team leverages this purchasing capability. Our purchasing staff travels routinely within the United States and internationally to source top-quality food products at competitive prices. We believe that we have established excellent long-term relationships with key suppliers and usually source our product directly from producers (not brokers or middlemen). We actively support several national minority supplier organizations to ensure that Darden incorporates women- and minority-owned businesses in all of its purchasing decisions.

We continue to drive automation of our supply chain by working with our suppliers, logistics partners and distributors to improve optimization with information visibility. Through our subsidiary, Darden Direct Distribution, Inc. (Darden Direct), and long-term agreements with our third party national distribution companies, we maintain inventory ownership of food and supplies in warehouses primarily dedicated to Darden where practical to do so. Darden Direct further enables our purchasing staff to integrate demand forecasts into long-term agreements driving efficiencies in production economics when we collaborate with suppliers. Because of the relatively rapid turnover of perishable food products, inventories in the restaurants have a modest aggregate dollar value in relation to sales.

Advertising and Marketing

Integrated marketing is a key element of our strategy, and our scale enables us to be a leading advertiser in the full-service dining segment of the restaurant industry. Olive Garden leverages the efficiency of national network television advertising. Olive Garden supplements this with cable, local television and digital advertising. LongHorn Steakhouse uses local television and digital advertising to build engagement and loyalty by market. Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen, The Capital Grille, Yard House, Bahama Breeze, Seasons 52 and Eddie V’s do not use television advertising, but rely on local and digital marketing. Our restaurants appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers and we use advertising to build awareness and strengthen our brands. We implement periodic promotions as appropriate to maintain and increase our sales and profits, as well as increase frequency of visitation by our guests. We also rely on outdoor billboard, direct mail and email advertising, as well as radio, newspapers, digital coupons, search engine marketing and social media such as Facebook® and Instagram®, as appropriate, to attract, engage and retain our guests. We have developed and consistently use sophisticated consumer marketing research techniques to monitor guest satisfaction and evolving food service trends and expectations.

In fiscal 2018, we continued a multi-year effort to implement new technology platforms that allow us to digitally engage with our guests and team members and strengthen our marketing and analytics capabilities in an increasingly connected society. We also continued making improvements to our online and mobile ordering system for Olive Garden and LongHorn Steakhouse. In addition, we continued working on developing sophisticated customer relationship management programs, data analytics, and data-driven marketing approaches to effectively and efficiently target our existing and potential guests across our portfolio of brands. This enables us to tailor messaging and offerings depending on guest visit history, preferences and brand loyalty.

In fiscal 2018, Olive Garden continued to leverage Spanish language advertising to increase awareness and visits from Hispanic consumers.

Employees

At the end of fiscal 2018, we employed over 180,000 people (team members) in the United States and Canada. Of these team members, approximately 170,000 were hourly restaurant personnel. The remainder were restaurant management personnel located in the restaurants or in the field, or were located at our restaurant support center facility in Orlando, Florida. Our executives have an average of 15 years of experience with us. The restaurant general managers and managing partners average 12 years with us. We believe that we provide working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of our competitors. Most team members, other than restaurant management and corporate management, are paid on an hourly basis. None of our team members are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be good.

As a full-service restaurant company, food is always top of mind, but our team members make the difference - they are at the heart of everything we do. We believe the guest experience can never exceed the team member experience, so we hire the best and retain them by fostering an environment of respect, where diversity of thought and background is valued and everyone has the opportunity to develop and grow their careers. We offer our team members flexible work schedules, competitive wages and benefits.

Consistent with one of our core values of diversity, we are committed to attracting, retaining, engaging and developing a workforce that mirrors the diversity of our guests. Approximately 50 percent of our restaurant team members are minorities and more than 55 percent are female. We also achieved a 100 percent score on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index for our business practices and policies toward our lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender team members. Additionally, we 

7

employ members of five generations of the United States population - Matures, Baby Boomers, Generation X, Millennials and Centennials.

During fiscal 2018, we received additional recognition for our employment practices, including: being included on Forbes’ 2018 List of the Best Employers for Diversity; being named to Glassdoor’s 2018 List of the 100 Best Places to Work, based entirely on employee feedback shared anonymously on Glassdoor over the past year; and Olive Garden and The Capital Grille being awarded the People Report’s 2018 Best Practices Award in recognition of having the best workplace culture in casual dining and fine dining, respectively.

Consistent with our core values of respect and caring and teamwork, in fiscal 1999, we established a program called Darden Dimes to help fellow Darden team members in need. Darden Dimes provides short-term financial grants to team members experiencing financial need caused by unexpected emergencies or catastrophic natural disasters. Participating team members donate as little as 10 cents from each paycheck to the Darden Dimes fund, which raises and grants more than $1.5 million annually.

We succeed because of our people, and with our success come rewards, recognition and great opportunities for our team members. We invest in their careers every step of the way by providing the tools they need to succeed in their current roles, to grow personally and professionally, and to deliver exceptional experiences to our guests each day. With thousands of leadership positions across our restaurants, we provide a pathway and training for thousands of individuals across the country to advance from entry-level jobs into management roles. In addition, our geographic footprint often puts us in a position to offer our restaurant team members jobs in their current roles when personal circumstances require relocation. This is one of the reasons Darden enjoys the lowest annual turnover rates for hourly team members in the industry. 

Information Technology and Cybersecurity

We strive for leadership in the restaurant business by using technology as a competitive advantage and as an enabler of our strategy. We have implemented technology-enabled business solutions to improve financial control, cost management, guest service and employee effectiveness, as well as enable e-commerce. These solutions are designed to be used across restaurant brands, yet are flexible enough to meet the unique needs of each restaurant brand. Our strategy is to fully integrate systems to drive operational efficiencies and enable restaurant teams to focus on restaurant operations excellence.

Restaurant hardware and software support for all of our restaurant brands is provided or coordinated from the restaurant support center facility in Orlando, Florida. Our data network sends and receives business data to and from the restaurants throughout the day and night, providing timely and extensive information on business activity in every location. Our data center contains sufficient computing power to process information from all restaurants quickly and efficiently. Our information is processed in a secure environment to protect both our data and the physical computing assets. We guard against business interruption by maintaining a disaster recovery plan, which includes storing critical business information off-site, testing the disaster recovery plan at a host-site facility and providing on-site power backup. We use internally developed proprietary software, as well as purchased software, with proven, non-proprietary hardware. 

We maintain a robust system of data protection and cyber security resources, technology and processes. We remain constantly vigilant of new and emerging risks and ever-changing legal and compliance requirements and make strategic continued investment in those systems to keep Company, customer and team member data secure. We monitor risks of sensitive information compromise at our business partners where relevant and reevaluate those relationships if necessary. We provide annual security awareness training to our management and restaurant service center team members.

Our management believes that our current systems and practice of implementing regular updates will position us well to support current needs and future growth. We use a strategic information systems planning process that involves senior management and is integrated into our overall business planning. We provide data protection and cybersecurity reports to the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors on a quarterly basis and periodically to the full Board of Directors. Information systems projects are prioritized based upon strategic, financial, regulatory and other business advantage criteria.

Competition 

The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to the type and quality of food, price, service, restaurant location, personnel, brand, attractiveness of facilities, availability of carryout and home delivery, internet and mobile ordering capabilities and effectiveness of advertising and marketing. The restaurant business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing restaurants; and consumers’ discretionary purchasing power. We compete within each market with national and regional chains and locally-owned restaurants for guests, management and hourly personnel and suitable real estate sites. We also face growing competition from the supermarket industry, which offers “convenient meals” in the form of improved entrées and 

8

side dishes from the deli section. In addition, improving product offerings at fast casual restaurants and quick-service restaurants and expansion of home delivery services, together with negative economic conditions, could cause consumers to choose less expensive alternatives. We expect intense competition to continue in all of these areas.

Other factors pertaining to our competitive position in the industry are addressed under the sections entitled “Purchasing and Distribution,” “Advertising and Marketing” and “Information Technology and Cybersecurity” in this Item 1 and in our Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Trademarks and Service Marks

We regard our Olive Garden®, LongHorn Steakhouse®, Cheddar’s Scratch Kitchen®, Yard House®, The Capital Grille®, The Capital Burger ®, Bahama Breeze®, Seasons 52®, Eddie V’s Prime Seafood®, Darden® and Darden Restaurants® service marks, and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and as being important to our marketing efforts. Our policy is to pursue registration of our important service marks and trademarks and to vigorously oppose any infringement of them. Generally, with appropriate renewal and use, the registration of our service marks and trademarks will continue indefinitely.

Franchises, Joint Ventures and New Business Development

As of May 27, 2018, we operated 1,746 restaurants through subsidiaries in the United States and Canada. We own all of those locations, except for 3 restaurants managed by us and owned by joint ventures. We control the joint ventures’ use of our service marks and the joint ventures pay management fees to us, which are not material to our consolidated financial statements.

As of May 27, 2018, franchisees operated 36 franchised restaurants in the United States and 35 franchised restaurants outside of the United States. We have area development, franchise and/or license agreements in place with unaffiliated operators to develop and operate Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille and Bahama Breeze restaurants in the following regions:

•United States,

•Middle East (Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates), 

•Mexico, 

•Central and South America (Brazil, El Salvador and Panama),

•Caribbean (Jamaica, Bahamas, Cayman Islands, Dominican Republic and Barbados), and

•Malaysia. 

 The open and operating franchised restaurants are all reflected in the table under the “Introduction” section of this Item 1. We do not have an ownership interest in any of these franchisees, but we receive fees under the area development and franchise agreements and royalty income under the franchise or license agreements. The amount of income we derive from our franchise arrangements is not material to our consolidated financial statements.

We license the sales and distribution of several items including Olive Garden salad dressings, salad croutons, LongHorn Steakhouse seasoning and Olive Garden seasoning through various channels including wholesale distribution chains and major grocery chains. The amount of income we derive from these licensing arrangements is not material to our consolidated financial statements.

Seasonality

Our sales volumes fluctuate seasonally. Typically, our average sales per restaurant are highest in the winter and spring, followed by the summer, and lowest in the fall. Holidays, changes in the economy, severe weather and similar conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. 

Government Regulation

We are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws affecting our business. Each of our restaurants must comply with licensing requirements and regulations by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, safety and fire agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located. The development and operation of restaurants depend on selecting and acquiring suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations. To date, we have not been significantly affected by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals.

9

During fiscal 2018, 12.3 percent of our sales were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Regulations governing their sale require licensure by each site (in most cases, on an annual basis), and licenses may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. These regulations relate to many aspects of restaurant operation, including the minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, and storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain these licenses would adversely affect the restaurant’s operations. We also are subject in certain states to “dram-shop” statutes, which generally provide an injured party with recourse against an establishment that serves alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person who then causes injury to himself or a third party. We carry liquor liability coverage as part of our comprehensive general liability insurance.

We also are subject to federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws governing such matters as overtime, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards, and hiring and employment practices. 

Since 1995, Darden has had a Tip Rate Alternative Commitment (TRAC) agreement with the Internal Revenue Service. TRAC requirements, which include increased educational and other efforts in each restaurant to increase the reporting compliance of employees with respect to cash tips, are applied across all of our brands. Compliance with TRAC requirements reduces the likelihood of potential employer-only FICA tax assessments related to cash tips that are unreported by employees at Darden’s covered units.

We are subject to federal and state environmental regulations, but these rules have not had a material effect on our operations. During fiscal 2018, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no material expenditures for this purpose are anticipated.

Our facilities must comply with the applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) and related state accessibility statutes. Under the ADA and related state laws, we must provide equivalent service to disabled persons and make reasonable accommodation for their employment, and when constructing or undertaking significant remodeling of our restaurants, we must make those facilities accessible.

We continue to monitor the status of the health care reform law enacted by Congress in March of 2010 (Affordable Care Act) and related rules and regulations. 

We are subject to laws and regulations relating to the preparation and sale of food, including regulations regarding product safety, nutritional content and menu labeling. We are subject to laws and regulations requiring disclosure of calorie, fat, trans fat, salt and allergen content. 

We are subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud. An increasing number of governments and industry groups worldwide have established data privacy laws and standards for the protection of personal information, including social security numbers, financial information (including credit card numbers), and health information. As a merchant and service provider of point-of-sale services, we are also subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard issued by the Payment Card Industry Council (PCI DSS). 

See Item 1A “Risk Factors” below for a discussion of risks relating to federal, state and local regulation of our business, including in the areas of health care reform, data privacy and environmental matters.

Sustainability

Darden's commitment to sustainability is a key component of providing great service and food to our guests. It is an element that separates us from our competitors and a contributor to our business success. Our approach is both integrated and strategic and spans the enterprise from the commodities we source to the operation of our restaurants. 

We focus on running our restaurants efficiently, and we continually reduce water and energy use. We have reduced our use of these resources 18% and 22%, respectively, from fiscal 2010, when we began tracking this data, through fiscal 2017. Darden has also established an aspirational goal to send zero waste to landfill over time. We have made significant progress and doubled (compared to fiscal 2010) our diversion rate to 31% reduction in landfill waste in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2010, achieved through a combination of recycling efforts, organic waste diversion and food donation through the Darden Harvest program. The achievement of these goals helps to distinguish Darden as a sustainability leader in the food service industry and beyond. 

We also focus on sustainability in today’s evolving food culture. In 2016, Darden’s Food Principles were publicly shared, which outline our commitment to guests in areas of sourcing, food safety, sustainability and animal welfare. Darden’s Food Principles is a statement that connects each of these strategic business efforts in a guest-centered platform, including sourcing and 

10

ingredient commitments to our guests. We have set commitments related to the following food attributes: antibiotics, partially-hydrogenated oils (PHOs), cage-free eggs, and gestation crate-free pork. We are on track to meet the commitments, and we continue to monitor progress with our suppliers.

Conservation is a competitive advantage - it continues to lower our operating costs over time, insulate our supply chain, and help us attract and retain the most qualified employees - all increasing the success of our business.

More information about our sustainability strategy, our commitment to our guests on Food Principles and our progress to date is available at www.darden.com.

Darden Foundation and Community Affairs 

We are recognized for a culture that rewards caring for and responding to people. That defines service for Darden. The Darden Restaurants, Inc. Foundation (Foundation) works to bring to life this spirit of service through its philanthropic support of charitable organizations across the country as well as the volunteer involvement of our team members. The Foundation does this by focusing its philanthropic efforts on programs that enhance the communities in which our team members and guests live and work. In addition, Darden Restaurant Support Center team members are eligible for 16 hours per calendar year of paid time for approved community service activities during scheduled work hours.

In fiscal 2018, the Foundation awarded approximately $3.7 million in grants to national organizations as well as local nonprofits including Second Harvest Food Bank of Central Florida and the Heart of Florida United Way. These organizations provide service to the public through disaster preparedness, hunger relief, community engagement, and the promotion of career opportunities in the culinary industry. 

The Foundation’s funding helps support the National Restaurant Association Education Foundation’s ProStart program, a national high school program that introduces students to the restaurant industry and provides them with an industry-driven curriculum on topics ranging from culinary techniques to management skills. The Foundation’s $250,000 annual contribution also supports the Opportunity Youth-Restaurant ready program to engage and encourage disconnected young people to pursue a path to employment and improve their quality of life.

We are a proud member of the American Red Cross’ Annual Disaster Giving Program which enables the Red Cross to respond to the needs of individuals and families impacted by disasters anywhere in the United States. In addition to financial support, our restaurants regularly donate meals to feed first responders and victims of natural disasters. In fiscal 2018, the Foundation provided $750,000 to the American Red Cross, including $250,000 to support the organization’s Hurricane Harvey relief efforts. The Foundation also provided $50,000 to Heart of Florida United Way to support Hurricane Maria victims in Puerto Rico.

The Foundation strengthened its partnership with Feeding America in fiscal 2018 with a $2.0 million grant to provide food to hungry families in the communities where we do business. The Foundation’s contribution will support food banks across the country and help provide meals for people facing hunger. This donation will mark a total of $5.8 million that the Foundation and Darden have contributed to the Feeding America network.

In 2003, we began the Darden Harvest program as a mechanism for getting fresh and healthy food to people who need it. Each day, across every one of our restaurants, we collect surplus, wholesome food that is not served to guests and, rather than discarding the food, we prepare it for donation to local nonprofit feeding partners. In fiscal 2018, Darden contributed approximately 7 million pounds of food, the equivalent of more than 5.8 million meals provided to people in need across the communities served by our restaurants. As an added benefit of the Darden Harvest program, we are able to divert millions of pounds of surplus food from waste streams every year, making the Darden Harvest program a key part of our goal to one day send zero waste to landfills. 

More information about the Foundation and its efforts to enhance the quality of life in the communities where we do business is available on our website at www.darden.com.

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Our executive officers as of the date of this report are listed below.

Eugene I. (Gene) Lee, Jr., age 57, has been our President and CEO since February 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Lee served as President and Interim CEO since October 2014, and as President and COO of the Company from September 2013 to October 2014. He served as President, Specialty Restaurant Group from our acquisition of RARE in October 2007 to September 2013. 

11

Prior to the acquisition, he served as RARE’s President and COO from January 2001 to October 2007. From January 1999 until January 2001, he served as RARE’s Executive Vice President and COO.

Matthew R. Broad, age 58, has been our Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary since October 2015. Prior to joining Darden, he served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer for OfficeMax, Incorporated from October 2004 to December 2013. Prior to that, he was Associate General Counsel with Boise Cascade Corporation from September 1989 to October 2004.

Todd A. Burrowes, age 55, has been our President, LongHorn Steakhouse since July 2015. He rejoined the Company after serving as President, Ruby Tuesday Concept and Chief Operations Officer of Ruby Tuesday, Inc. from June 2013 to July 2015. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President of Operations for LongHorn Steakhouse from May 2008 until June 2013. He joined the Company in 2002 as Regional Manager of LongHorn Steakhouse before being promoted to Director of Management Training. In 2004, he was promoted to Regional Vice President of Operations for LongHorn Steakhouse.

Ricardo (Rick) Cardenas, age 50, has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since March 2016. He was Senior Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer of the Company from July 2015 to March 2016, prior to which he served as Senior Vice President, Finance, Strategy and Technology from July 2014 to July 2015. He was Executive Vice President of Operations for LongHorn Steakhouse from June 2013 to July 2014 and Senior Vice President of Operations for LongHorn Steakhouse’s Philadelphia Division from June 2012 to June 2013. He served as Senior Vice President of Finance for Red Lobster, which the Company previously owned, from June 2010 to June 2012. Mr. Cardenas originally joined the Company in 1984 as an hourly employee and served in various positions of increasing responsibility, including Vice President of Finance for Olive Garden, prior to the positions described above.

David C. George, age 62, has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2018, prior to which he was our President, Olive Garden and Executive Vice President, Darden Restaurants since March 2016. He served as President, Olive Garden from January 2013 through March 2016 and he served as our President, LongHorn Steakhouse from October 2007, when we acquired RARE, until January 2013. Prior to the acquisition, he served as RARE’s President of LongHorn Steakhouse from May 2003 until October 2007. From October 2001 until May 2003, he was RARE’s Senior Vice President of Operations for LongHorn Steakhouse and from May 2000 until October 2001 was RARE’s Vice President of Operations for The Capital Grille.

Daniel J. Kiernan, age 57, has been our President, Olive Garden since January 2018, prior to which he was our Executive Vice President of Operations for Olive Garden since March 2011. He began his career with Olive Garden in 1992 as a Manager in Training and has held a series of roles of increasing responsibility with Olive Garden, serving as a General Manager from February 1993 to August 1994, as Director of Operations from August 1994 to June 2002, as Senior Vice President of the Chicago Division from June 2002 to May 2008 and as Senior Vice President, Operations Excellence from May 2008 to March 2011.

Sarah H. King, age 48, was named our Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer in March 2017. Prior to joining Darden, Sarah spent 19 years with Wyndham Worldwide Corporation in various human resources leadership positions worldwide. Most recently, from 2010 through 2017, she served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources for Wyndham Vacation Ownership.

John W. Madonna, age 42, has been our Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller since January 2016, prior to which he served as our Senior Vice President, Accounting since January 2015. Prior to that, he was a Director in Corporate Reporting from June 2010 through June 2013 when he was promoted to Senior Director, Corporate Reporting and then to Vice President of Corporate Reporting in March 2014. He joined the Company in 2005 as Manager, Corporate Reporting. He joined the LongHorn Steakhouse team in 2009 as Manager, Financial Planning & Analysis.

Douglas J. Milanes, age 54, has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Supply Chain Officer since May 2015, prior to which he served as Senior Vice President, Purchasing since January 2013. Prior to joining Darden, Doug served as Vice President, Global Procurement and Operations for Pfizer Inc. from January 2008 to July 2012 and as Chief Financial Officer for Pfizer's Capsugel Division from 2005 to 2008.

Richard L. Renninger, age 50, has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer since July 2016. Prior to joining Darden, he was Chief Development Officer for First Watch Restaurants, Inc., from September 2012 to June 2016. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President & Chief Development Officer for OSI Restaurant Partners (now Bloomin' Brands, Inc.) from January 2008 to March 2012 and Senior Vice President of Real Estate and Development from June 2005 to January 2008. Prior to joining OSI, he served as Vice President of Real Estate for RARE from July 2002 to June 2005.

12

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS