ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

The risk factors that follow relate in each case to the Company, and where indicated the risk factors also relate to Consolidated SCE&G.

10

Commodity price changes, delays and other factors may affect the operating cost, capital expenditures and competitive positions of the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s energy businesses, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Our energy businesses are sensitive to changes in coal, natural gas, uranium and other commodity prices (as well as their transportation costs) and availability. Any such changes could affect the prices these businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services. Consolidated SCE&G is permitted to recover the prudently incurred cost of purchased power and fuel (including transportation) used in electric generation through retail customers’ bills, but purchased power and fuel cost increases affect electric prices and therefore the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. In addition, when natural gas prices are low enough relative to coal to require the dispatch of gas-fired electric generation ahead of coal-fired electric generation, higher inventories of coal, with related increased carrying costs, may result. This may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

In the case of regulated natural gas operations, costs prudently incurred for purchased gas and pipeline capacity may be recovered through retail customers’ bills. However, in both our regulated and deregulated natural gas markets, increases in gas costs affect total retail prices and therefore the competitive position of gas relative to electricity and other forms of energy. Accordingly, customers able to do so may switch to alternate forms of energy and reduce their usage of gas from the Company and Consolidated SCE&G. Customers on a volumetric rate structure unable to switch to alternate fuels or suppliers may reduce their usage of gas from the Company and Consolidated SCE&G. A regulatory mechanism applies to residential and commercial customers at PSNC Energy to mitigate the earnings impact of an increase or decrease in gas usage.

Certain construction-related commodities, such as copper and aluminum used in our transmission and distribution lines and in our electrical equipment, and steel, concrete and rare earth elements, have experienced significant price fluctuations due to changes in worldwide demand. To operate our air emissions control equipment, we use significant quantities of ammonia, limestone and lime. With EPA-mandated industry-wide compliance requirements for air emissions controls, increased demand for these reagents, combined with the increased demand for low sulfur coal, may result in higher costs for coal and reagents used for compliance purposes.

The costs of large capital projects, such as the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s construction for environmental compliance and its construction of the New Units and associated transmission, are significant and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect the cost, timing and completion of the projects.

The Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects, including projects for environmental compliance. For example, SCE&G and Santee Cooper have agreed to jointly own, contract the design and construction of, and operate the New Units, which will be two 1,250 MW (1,117 MW, net) nuclear units at SCE&G’s Summer Station, in pursuit of which they have committed and are continuing to commit significant resources. In addition, construction of significant new transmission infrastructure is necessary to support the New Units and is under way as an integral part of the project. Achieving the intended benefits of any large construction project is subject to many uncertainties. For instance, the ability to adhere to established budgets and construction schedules may be affected by many variables, such as the regulatory, legal, training and construction processes associated with securing approvals, permits and licenses and necessary amendments to them within projected timeframes, the availability of labor and materials at estimated costs, the availability and cost of financing, and weather. There also may be contractor or supplier performance issues or adverse changes in their creditworthiness, unforeseen difficulties meeting critical regulatory requirements, contract disputes and litigation, and changes in key contractors or subcontractors. There may be unforeseen engineering problems or unanticipated changes in project design or scope. Our ability to complete construction projects (including new baseload generation) as well as our ability to maintain current operations at reasonable cost could be affected by the availability of key components or commodities, increases in the price of or the unavailability of labor, commodities or other materials, increases in lead times for components, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, new or enhanced environmental or regulatory requirements, supply chain failures (whether resulting from the foregoing or other factors), and disruptions in the transportation of components, commodities and fuels. Some of the foregoing issues have been experienced in the construction of the New Units. A discussion of certain of those matters can be found under New Nuclear Construction in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G.

Should the construction of the New Units adversely deviate from the schedules (by more than 18 months), estimates, and projections timely submitted to and approved by the SCPSC pursuant to the BLRA, the SCPSC could disallow the additional capital costs that result from the deviations to the extent that it is deemed that the Company's failure to anticipate or avoid the deviation, or to minimize the resulting expenses, was imprudent, considering the information available at the time. Depending upon the magnitude of any such disallowed capital costs, the Company could be moved to evaluate the prudency of continuation, adjustment to, or termination of the project.

11

Furthermore, jointly owned projects, such as the current construction of the New Units, are subject to the risk that one or more of the joint owners becomes either unable or unwilling to continue to fund project financial commitments, new joint owners cannot be secured at equivalent financial terms, or changes in the joint ownership make-up will increase project costs and/or delay the completion. 

To the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, or we otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as our qualifications for applicable governmental programs and benefits, such as production tax credits, may be adversely affected.

The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G do not fully hedge against financial market risks or price changes in commodities. This could result in increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G use derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage our financial market risks. The Company also uses such derivative instruments to manage certain commodity (i.e., natural gas) market risk. We could be required to provide cash collateral or recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities and financial contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract.

The Company strives to manage commodity price exposure by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of our positions (i.e., to hedge our exposure to demand and other changes in commodity prices). We do not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility or our hedges are not effective, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be diminished.

Changing and complex laws and regulations to which the Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject could adversely affect revenues, increase costs, or curtail activities, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G operate under the regulatory authority of the United States government and its various regulatory agencies, including the FERC, NRC, SEC, IRS, EPA, CFTC and PHMSA. In addition, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to regulation by the state governments of South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia via regulatory agencies, state environmental commissions, and state employment commissions. Accordingly, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G must comply with extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Such governmental oversight and regulation broadly and materially affect the operation of our businesses. In addition to many other aspects of our businesses, these requirements impact the services mandated or offered to our customers, and the licensing, siting, construction and operation of facilities. They affect our management of safety, the reliability of our electric and natural gas systems, the physical and cyber security of key assets, customer conservation through DSM Programs, information security, the issuance of securities and borrowing of money, financial reporting, interactions among affiliates, the payment of dividends and employment programs and practices. Changes to governmental regulations are continual and potentially costly to effect compliance. Non-compliance with these requirements by third parties, such as our contractors, vendors and agents, may subject the Company and Consolidated SCE&G to operational risks and to liability. We cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on the Company’s or Consolidated SCE&G’s businesses. Non-compliance with these laws and regulations could result in fines, litigation, loss of licenses or permits, mandated capital expenditures and other adverse business outcomes, as well as reputational damage, which could adversely affect the cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G.

Furthermore, changes in or uncertainty in monetary, fiscal, or regulatory policies of the Federal government may adversely affect the debt and equity markets and the economic climate for the nation, region or particular industries, such as ours or those of our customers. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G could be adversely impacted by changes in tax policy, such as the loss of production tax credits related to the construction of the New Units.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to extensive rate regulation which could adversely affect operations. Large capital projects, results of DSM Programs and/or increases in operating costs may lead to requests for regulatory relief, such as rate increases, which may be denied, in whole or part, by rate regulators. Rate increases may also result in reductions in customer usage of electricity or gas, legislative action and lawsuits.

12

SCE&G’s electric operations in South Carolina and the Company’s gas distribution operations in South Carolina and North Carolina are regulated by state utilities commissions. In addition, the construction of the New Units by SCE&G is subject to rate regulation by the SCPSC via the BLRA. Consolidated SCE&G’s generating facilities are subject to extensive regulation and oversight from the NRC and SCPSC. SCE&G's electric transmission system is subject to extensive regulations and oversight from the SCPSC, NERC and FERC. Implementing and maintaining compliance with the NERC's mandatory reliability standards, enforced by FERC, for bulk electric systems could result in higher operating costs and capital expenditures. Non-compliance with these standards could subject SCE&G to substantial monetary penalties. Our gas marketing operations in Georgia are subject to state regulatory oversight and, for a portion of its operations, to rate regulation. There can be no assurance that Georgia’s gas delivery regulatory framework will remain unchanged as market conditions evolve. 

Furthermore, Dodd-Frank affects the use and reporting of derivative instruments. The regulations under this legislation provide for substantial additional regulation of over-the-counter and security-based derivative instruments, among other things, and require numerous rule-makings by the CFTC and the SEC to implement, many of which are still pending final action by those federal agencies. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G have determined that they meet the end-user exception to mandatory clearing of swaps under Dodd-Frank. In addition, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G have taken steps to ensure that they are not the party required to report these transactions in real-time (the "reporting party") by transacting solely with swap dealers and major swap participants, when possible, as well as entering into reporting party agreements with counterparties who also are not swap dealers or major swap participants, which establishes that those counterparties are obligated to report the transactions in accordance with applicable Dodd-Frank regulations. While these actions minimize the reporting obligations of the Company, they do not eliminate required recordkeeping for any Dodd-Frank regulated transactions. Moreover, the Company retains reporting responsibility for certain types of swaps, such as the annual reporting of trade options. Despite qualifying for the end-user exception to mandatory clearing and ensuring that neither the Company nor Consolidated SCE&G is the reporting party to a transaction required to be reported in real-time, we cannot predict when the final regulations will be issued or what requirements they will impose.

Although we believe that we have constructive relationships with the regulators, our ability to obtain rate treatment that will allow us to maintain reasonable rates of return is dependent upon regulatory determinations, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to implement rate adjustments when sought.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures, can increase our costs of operations and may impact our business plans or expose us to environmental liabilities.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to water quality and air emissions (such as reducing nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, mercury and particulate matter). Some form of regulation is expected at the federal and state levels to impose regulatory requirements specifically directed at reducing GHG emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. On August 3, 2015, the EPA issued a revised standard for new power plants by re-proposing NSPS under the CAA for emissions of carbon dioxide from newly constructed fossil fuel-fired units. The final rule requires all new coal-fired power plants to meet a carbon emission rate of 1,400 pounds carbon dioxide per MWh. No new coal-fired plants could be constructed without partial carbon capture and sequestration capabilities. The Company is evaluating the final rule, but does not plan to construct new coal-fired units in the foreseeable future. In addition, on August 3, 2015, the EPA issued its final rule on emission guidelines for states to follow in developing plans to address GHG emissions from existing units. The rule includes state-specific goals for reducing national carbon dioxide emissions by 32% from 2005 levels by 2030. However, on February 9, 2016, the Supreme Court stayed the rule pending disposition of a petition of review of the rule in the Court of Appeals. Also, a number of bills have been introduced in Congress that seek to require GHG emissions reductions from fossil fuel-fired electric generation facilities, natural gas facilities and other sectors of the economy, although none have yet been enacted. In April 2012 the EPA issued the finalized MATS for power plants that requires reduced emissions from new and existing coal and oil-fired electric utility steam generating facilities. In October 2014, the stay on CSAPR was lifted and CAIR was set aside, thus reinstating CSAPR sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide allocations on electric generating units in 28 states, including South Carolina. In 2010, the EPA set a new NAAQS limit for sulfur dioxide and in August 2015 issued the Data Requirements Rule for implementing the one-hour sulfur dioxide standard. In October 2015 a new NAAQS limit for ozone was finalized by the EPA. The EPA's rule for cooling water intake structures to meet the best technology available became effective in October 2014, and the EPA also issued a final rule in December 2014 regarding the handling of coal ash and other combustion by-products produced by power plant operations. Furthermore, the EPA finalized new standards under the CWA governing effluent limitation guidelines for electric generating units in September 2015. 

13

Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations requires us to commit significant resources toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emissions fees and permitting at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and are expected to continue or even increase in the future. Changes in compliance requirements or more restrictive interpretations by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us (such as the clean-up of MGP sites or additional emission allowances) or require us to incur additional expenditures or curtail some of our cost savings activities (such as the recycling of fly ash and other coal combustion products for beneficial use). Compliance with any GHG emission reduction requirements, including any mandated renewable portfolio standards, also may impose significant costs on us, and the resulting price increases to our customers may lower customer consumption. Such costs of compliance with environmental regulations could negatively impact our industry, our businesses and our results of operations and financial position, especially if emissions or discharge limits are reduced or more onerous permitting requirements or additional regulatory requirements are imposed.

Renewable and/or alternative electric generation portfolio standards may be enacted at the federal or state level. In June 2014 the State of South Carolina enacted legislation known as Act 236 with the stated goal for each investor-owned utility to add up to 2% of its 5-year average retail peak demand with renewable electric generation resources by the end of 2020. A utility, at its option, may add an additional 1% during this period. Such renewable energy may not be readily available in our service territories and could be costly to build, acquire, and operate. Resulting increases in the price of electricity to recover the cost of these types of generation, as approved by regulatory commissions, could result in significantly lower usage of electricity by our customers. In addition, DER generation at customers’ facilities could result in the loss of sales to those customers. Compliance with potential future portfolio standards could significantly impact our industry, our capital expenditures, and our results of operations and financial condition. 

The compliance costs of these environmental laws and regulations are important considerations in the Company's and Consolidated SCE&G's strategic planning and, as a result, significantly affect the decisions to construct, operate, and retire facilities, including generating facilities. In effecting compliance with MATS, SCE&G has retired three of its oldest and smallest coal-fired units and converted three others such that they may be gas-fired.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are vulnerable to interest rate increases, which would increase our borrowing costs, and we may not have access to capital at favorable rates, if at all. Additionally, potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets may further adversely affect the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments; each could in turn adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt and equity, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from operations. Changes in interest rates affect the cost of borrowing. The Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s business plans, which include significant investments in energy generation and other internal infrastructure projects, reflect the expectation that we will have access to the capital markets on satisfactory terms to fund commitments. Moreover, the ability to maintain short-term liquidity by utilizing commercial paper programs is dependent upon maintaining satisfactory short-term debt ratings and the existence of a market for our commercial paper generally. 

The Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s ability to draw on our respective bank revolving credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments and on our ability to timely renew such facilities. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Company or Consolidated SCE&G if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our businesses. Any disruption could require the Company and Consolidated SCE&G to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures or other discretionary uses of cash. Disruptions in capital and credit markets also could result in higher interest rates on debt securities, limited or no access to the commercial paper market, increased costs associated with commercial paper borrowing or limitations on the maturities of commercial paper that can be sold (if at all), increased costs under bank credit facilities and reduced availability thereof, and increased costs for certain variable interest rate debt securities of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G.

Disruptions in the capital markets and its actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy also adversely affect the value of the investments held within SCANA’s pension trust. A significant long-term decline in the value of these investments may require us to make or increase contributions to the trust to meet future funding requirements. In 

14

addition, a significant decline in the market value of the investments may adversely impact the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including its shareholders’ equity.

A downgrade in the credit rating of SCANA or any of SCANA’s subsidiaries, including SCE&G, could negatively affect our ability to access capital and to operate our businesses, thereby adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Various rating agencies currently rate SCANA’s long-term senior unsecured debt, SCE&G’s long-term senior secured debt, and the long-term senior unsecured debt of PSNC Energy as investment grade. In addition, rating agencies maintain ratings on the short-term debt of SCANA, SCE&G, Fuel Company (which ratings are based upon the guarantee of SCE&G) and PSNC Energy. Rating agencies consider qualitative and quantitative factors when assessing SCANA and its rated operating companies’ credit ratings, including regulatory environment, capital structure and the ability to meet liquidity requirements. Changes in the regulatory environment or deterioration of our rated companies’ commonly monitored financial credit metrics could adversely affect their debt ratings. If these rating agencies were to downgrade any of these ratings, particularly to below investment grade for long-term ratings, borrowing costs on new issuances would increase, which would diminish financial results, and the potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease.

Operating results may be adversely affected by natural disasters, man-made mishaps and abnormal weather.

The Company has delivered less gas and received lower prices for natural gas in deregulated markets when weather conditions have been milder than normal, and as a consequence earned less income from those operations. During 2010 the SCPSC approved SCE&G’s implementation of an eWNA on a pilot basis; it was discontinued at the end of 2013. Mild weather in the future could diminish the revenues and results of operations and harm the financial condition of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G. Hot or cold weather could result in higher bills for customers and result in higher write-offs of receivables and in a greater number of disconnections for non-payment. In addition, for the Company and Consolidated SCE&G, severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and property damage, adversely affecting operating expenses and revenues.

Natural disasters (such as electromagnetic events and the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan) or man-made mishaps (such as the San Bruno, California natural gas transmission pipeline failure, the Kingston, Tennessee coal ash pond failure, and cyber-security failures experienced by many businesses) could have direct significant impacts on the Company and Consolidated SCE&G and on our key contractors and suppliers or could impact us through changes to federal, state or local policies, laws and regulations, and have a significant impact on our financial condition, operating expenses, and cash flows.

Potential competitive changes may adversely affect our gas and electricity businesses due to the loss of customers, reductions in revenues, or write-down of stranded assets.

The utility industry has been undergoing structural change for a number of years, resulting in increasing competitive pressures on electric and natural gas utility companies. Competition in wholesale power sales via a RTO/ISO (Regional Transmission Organization/Independent System Operator) is in effect across much of the country, but the Southeastern utilities have retained the traditional bundled, vertically integrated structure. Should a RTO/ISO-market be implemented in the Southeast, potential risks emerge from reliance on volatile wholesale market prices as well as increased costs associated with new delivery transmission and distribution infrastructure. 

Some states have also mandated or encouraged unbundled retail competition. Should this occur in South Carolina, increased competition may create greater risks to the stability of utility earnings generally and may in the future reduce earnings from retail electric and natural gas sales. In a deregulated environment, formerly regulated utility companies that are not responsive to a competitive energy marketplace may suffer erosion in market share, revenues and profits as competitors gain access to their customers. In addition, the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risk in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, a write-down in the value of the related assets would be required.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to the risk of loss of sales due to the growth of distributed generation especially in the form of renewable power such as solar photovoltaic systems, which systems have undergone a rapid decline in their costs. As a result of federal and state subsidies, potential regulations allowing third-party retail sales, and advances in distributed generation technology, the growth of such distributed generation could be significant in the future. Such growth will lessen Company and Consolidated SCE&G sales and slow growth, potentially causing higher rates to customers. 

15

The Company and SCE&G are subject to risks associated with changes in business and economic climate which could adversely affect revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and could limit access to capital.

Sales, sales growth and customer usage patterns are dependent upon the economic climate in the service territories of the Company and SCE&G, which may be affected by regional, national or even international economic factors. Some economic sectors important to our customer base may be particularly affected. Adverse events, economic or otherwise, may also affect the operations of suppliers and key customers. Such events may result in the loss of suppliers or customers, in costs charged by suppliers, in changes to customer usage patterns and in the failure of customers to make timely payments to us. With respect to the Company, such events also could adversely impact the results of operations through the recording of a goodwill or other asset impairment. The success of local and state governments in attracting new industry to our service territories is important to our sales and growth in sales, as are stable levels of taxation (including property, income or other taxes) which may be affected by local, state, or federal budget deficits, adverse economic climates generally or legislative or regulatory actions. Budget cutbacks also adversely affect funding levels of federal and state support agencies and non-profit organizations that assist low income customers with bill payments.

In addition, conservation and demand side management efforts and/or technological advances may cause or enable customers to significantly reduce their usage of the Company’s and SCE&G’s products and adversely affect sales, sales growth, and customer usage patterns. For instance, improvements in energy storage technology, if realized, could have dramatic impacts on the viability of and growth in distributed generation.

Factors that generally could affect our ability to access capital include economic conditions and our capital structure. Much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our capital plan and long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly harmed.

Problems with operations could cause us to curtail or limit our ability to serve customers or cause us to incur substantial costs, thereby adversely impacting revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Critical processes or systems in the Company’s or Consolidated SCE&G’s operations could become impaired or fail from a variety of causes, such as equipment breakdown, transmission equipment failure, information systems failure or security breach, natural disasters, and the effects of a pandemic or terrorist attack on our workforce or facilities or on the ability of vendors and suppliers to maintain services key to our operations.

In particular, as the operator of power generation facilities, many of which entered service prior to 1985 and may be difficult to maintain, Consolidated SCE&G could incur problems, such as the breakdown or failure of power generation or emission control equipment, transmission equipment, or other equipment or processes which would result in performance below assumed levels of output or efficiency. The operation of the New Units or the integration of a significant amount of distributed generation into our systems may entail additional cycling of our coal-fired generation facilities and may thereby increase the number of unplanned outages at those facilities. In addition, any such breakdown or failure may result in Consolidated SCE&G purchasing emission allowances or replacement power at market rates, if such allowances and replacement power are available at all. These purchases are subject to state regulatory prudency reviews for recovery through rates. If replacement power is not available, such problems could result in interruptions of service (blackout or brownout conditions) in all or part of SCE&G’s territory or elsewhere in the region. Similarly, a natural gas line failure of the Company or Consolidated SCE&G could affect the safety of the public, destroy property, and interrupt our ability to serve customers. 

Events such as these could entail substantial repair costs, litigation, fines and penalties, and damage to reputation, each of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. Insurance may not be available or adequate to respond to these events.

A failure of the Company to maintain the physical and cyber security of its operations may result in the failure of operations, damage to equipment, or loss of information, and could result in a significant adverse impact to the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The Company depends on maintaining the physical and cyber security of its operations and assets. As much of our business is part of the nation's critical infrastructure, the loss or impairment of the assets associated with that portion of our businesses could have serious adverse impacts on the customers and communities that we serve. Virtually all of the Company's operations are dependent in some manner upon our cyber systems, which encompass electric and gas operations, nuclear and 

16

fossil fuel generating plants, human resource and customer systems and databases, information system networks, and systems containing confidential corporate information. Cyber systems, such as those of the Company, are often targets of malicious cyber attacks. A successful physical or cyber attack could lead to outages, failure of operations of all or portions of our businesses, damage to key components and equipment, and exposure of confidential customer, employee, or corporate information. The Company may not be readily able to recover from such events. In addition, the failure to secure our operations from such physical and cyber events may cause us reputational damage. Litigation, penalties and claims from a number of parties, including customers, regulators and shareholders, may ensue. Insurance may not be adequate to respond to these events. As a result, the Company's financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be adversely affected.

SCANA’s ability to pay dividends and to make payments on SCANA’s debt securities may be limited by covenants in certain financial instruments and by the financial results and condition of its subsidiaries, thereby adversely impacting the valuation of our common stock and our access to capital.

We are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Therefore, our ability to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses depends on the earnings, cash flows, financial condition and capital requirements of our subsidiaries, and the ability of our subsidiaries, principally Consolidated SCE&G, PSNC Energy and SEMI, to pay dividends or to repay funds to us. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may also be limited by existing or future covenants limiting the right of our subsidiaries to pay dividends on their common stock. Any significant reduction in our payment of dividends in the future may result in a decline in the value of our common stock. Such a decline in value could limit our ability to raise debt and equity capital.

A significant portion of Consolidated SCE&G’s generating capacity is derived from nuclear power, the use of which exposes us to regulatory, environmental and business risks. These risks could increase our costs or otherwise constrain our business, thereby adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. These risks will increase as the New Units are developed.

In 2015, Summer Station Unit 1, operated by SCE&G, provided approximately 4.7 million MWh, or 20% of our generation. When the New Units are completed, our generating capacity and the percentage of total generating capacity represented by nuclear sources are expected to increase. Hence, SCE&G is subject to various risks of nuclear generation, which include the following:

•The potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; 

•Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the United States;

•The possibility that new laws and regulations could be enacted that could adversely affect the liability structure that currently exists in the United States;

•Uncertainties with respect to procurement of nuclear fuel and the storage of spent nuclear fuel;

•Uncertainties with respect to contingencies if insurance coverage is inadequate; and

•Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their operating lives.

The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours. Although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident, a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit, resulting in costly changes to units under construction or in operation and harming our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Furthermore, a major incident at a domestic nuclear facility could result in retrospective premium assessments under our nuclear insurance coverages. Finally, in today’s environment, there is a heightened risk of terrorist attack on the nation’s nuclear facilities, which has resulted in increased security costs at our nuclear plant.

17

Failure to retain and attract key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s operations and financial performance.

As with many other utilities, a significant portion of our workforce will be eligible for retirement during the next few years. We must attract, retain and develop executive officers and other professional, technical and craft employees with the skills and experience necessary to successfully manage, operate and grow our businesses. Competition for these employees is high, and in some cases we must compete for these employees on a regional or national basis. We may be unable to attract and retain these personnel. In particular, the timely hiring, training, licensing and retention of personnel needed for the operation of the New Units is necessary to maintain the schedule for their operation. Further, the Company’s or Consolidated SCE&G’s ability to construct or maintain generation or other assets requires the availability of suitable skilled contractor personnel. We may be unable to obtain appropriate contractor personnel at the times and places needed. Labor disputes with employees or contractors covered by collective bargaining agreements also could adversely affect implementation of our strategic plan and our operational and financial performance. Furthermore, increased medical benefit costs of employees and retirees could adversely affect the results of operations of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G. Medical costs in this country have risen significantly over the past number of years and are expected to continue to increase at unpredictable rates. Such increases, unless satisfactorily managed by the Company and Consolidated SCE&G, could adversely affect results of operations.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to the risk that strategic decisions made by us either do not result in a return of or on invested capital or might negatively impact our competitive position, which can adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and access to capital.

From time to time, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G make strategic decisions that may impact our direction with regard to business opportunities, the services and technologies offered to customers or that are used to serve customers, and the generating plants and other infrastructure that form the basis of much of our business. These strategic decisions may not result in a return of or on our invested capital, and the effects of these strategic decisions may have long-term implications that are not likely to be known to us in the short-term. Changing political climates and public attitudes, including customers' concerns regarding rate increases such as those periodic rate increases under the BLRA, may adversely affect the ongoing acceptability of strategic decisions that have been made (and, in some cases, previously supported by legislation or approved by regulators), to the detriment of the Company or Consolidated SCE&G (e.g., revision or repeal of the BLRA). Over time, these strategic decisions or changing attitudes toward such decisions, which could be adverse to the Company’s or Consolidated SCE&G’s interests, may have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as limit our ability to access capital.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to the reputational risks that may result from a failure to adhere to high standards of compliance with laws and regulations, ethical conduct, operational effectiveness, customer service and the safety of employees, customers and the public. These risks could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s access to capital.

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are committed to comply with all laws and regulations, to focus on the safety of employees, customers and the public, to maintain the privacy of information related to our customers and employees and to maintain effective communications with the public and key stakeholder groups, particularly during emergencies and times of crisis. Traditional news media and social media can very rapidly convey information, whether factual or not, to large numbers of people, including customers, investors, regulators, legislators and other stakeholders, and the failure to effectively manage timely communication through these channels could adversely impact our reputation. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G also are committed to operational excellence, to quality customer service, and, through our Code of Conduct and Ethics, to maintain high standards of ethical conduct in our business operations. A failure to meet these commitments may subject the Company and Consolidated SCE&G not only to fraud, regulatory action, litigation and financial loss, but also to reputational risk that could adversely affect the valuation of SCANA’s stock, adversely affect the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s access to capital, and result in further regulatory oversight. Insurance may not be available or adequate to respond to these events.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

Not Applicable

18

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES