ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

SCANA, through its wholly-owned regulated subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in South Carolina and in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas in North Carolina and South Carolina. Through a wholly-owned nonregulated subsidiary, SCANA markets natural gas to retail customers in Georgia and to wholesale customers in the southeast. A service company subsidiary of SCANA provides primarily administrative and management services to SCANA and its subsidiaries.

The following map indicates areas where the Company’s significant business segments conduct their activities, as further described in this overview section. 

The following percentages reflect net income earned by the Company’s regulated and nonregulated businesses (including the holding company) and the percentage of total assets held by them. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the first quarter of 2015, SCANA closed on the sales of its interstate natural gas pipeline and telecommunications subsidiaries. The differences between 2014 and 2015 percentages of net income from regulated and nonregulated businesses are attributable to these sales. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.

24

Key Earnings Drivers and Outlook

During 2015, economic growth continued to improve in the southeast. In the Company's South Carolina and North Carolina service territories, companies announced plans during the year to invest over $2 billion, with the expectation of creating approximately 6,500 jobs. South Carolina's unemployment rate ended December 2015 at 5.5%, a drop of 1% over 2014, an improvement that takes on greater significance when considering that almost 80,000 more South Carolinians were employed at the end of 2015 over 2014. In addition, each of the Company's regulated businesses experienced positive customer growth year over year. 

Over the next five years, key earnings drivers for the Company will be additions to rate base at its regulated subsidiaries, consisting primarily of capital expenditures for new generating capacity, environmental facilities and system expansion. Other factors that will impact future earnings growth include the regulatory environment, customer growth and usage in each of the regulated utility businesses, earnings in the natural gas marketing business in Georgia and the level of growth of operation and maintenance expenses and taxes. 

Electric Operations

SCE&G's electric operations primarily generates electricity and provides for its transmission, distribution and sale to approximately 698,000 customers (as of December 31, 2015) in portions of South Carolina in an area covering nearly 17,000 square miles. GENCO owns a coal-fired generating station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. Fuel Company acquires, owns, provides financing for and sells at cost to SCE&G nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels and emission and other environmental allowances.

Operating results are primarily driven by customer demand for electricity, rates allowed to be charged to customers and the ability to control costs. Demand for electricity is primarily affected by weather, customer growth and the economy. SCE&G is able to recover the cost of fuel used in electric generation through retail customers’ bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electricity prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources.

 Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity. SCE&G’s allowed return on equity in 2015 was 10.25% for non-BLRA rate base and 11.0% for BLRA-related rate base. To prevent the need for a non-BLRA base rate increase during years of peak nuclear construction, SCE&G has a stated goal of earning a return on equity for non-BLRA rate base of 9% or higher. For the year ended December 31, 2015, SCE&G's earned return on equity related to non-BLRA rate base was approximately 9.75%.

New Nuclear Construction

SCE&G, on behalf of itself and as agent for Santee Cooper, has contracted with the Consortium for the design and construction of two 1,250 MW (1,117 MW, net) nuclear generation units, which SCE&G will jointly own with Santee Cooper. SCE&G's current ownership share in the New Units is 55%, and SCE&G has agreed to acquire an additional 5% ownership from Santee Cooper in increments beginning with the commercial operation date of Unit 2. The purchase of this additional 5% ownership is expected to be funded by increased cash flows resulting from tax deductibility of depreciation associated with the New Units when they enter commercial operation.

The construction of the New Units and SCE&G’s related recovery of financing costs through rates is subject to review and approval by the SCPSC as provided for in the BLRA. As of December 31, 2015, SCE&G’s investment in the New Units totaled $3.6 billion, for which the financing costs on $3.2 billion have been reflected in rates under the BLRA. 

In September 2015, the SCPSC approved an updated BLRA milestone schedule and certain updated owner's costs and other capital costs, some of which were associated with schedule delays and other contested costs. Also in September 2015, the SCPSC approved a revision to the allowed return on equity for new nuclear construction from 11.0% to 10.5%, to be applied prospectively for the purpose of calculating revised rates sought by SCE&G under the BLRA on and after January 1, 2016.

On October 27, 2015, SCE&G, Santee Cooper and the Consortium reached a settlement regarding certain disputes, and the EPC Contract was amended. The October 2015 Amendment became effective on December 31, 2015, and among other things, it resolved by settlement and release substantially all outstanding disputes between SCE&G and the Consortium. The October 2015 Amendment also provides SCE&G and Santee Cooper an irrevocable option, until November 1, 2016 and subject to regulatory approvals, to further amend the EPC Contract to fix the total amount to be paid to the Consortium for its entire scope of work on the project after June 30, 2015, subject to certain exceptions. 

25

On November 19, 2015, SCE&G held an allowable ex parte communication briefing with the SCPSC to describe SCE&G's settlement with the Consortium. During that briefing, the Company provided the following summary of key points related to the SCPSC's September 2015 order and the October 2015 Amendment. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* The fixed price option, regardless of date of acceptance, would fix project costs and shift the risk of escalation (excluding escalation primarily on owner’s and transmission costs) to WEC as of June 30, 2015. Total gross escalation recorded as of June 30, 2015 is $386 million. Under the fixed price option, total gross escalation remaining on the project is estimated to be approximately $145 million.

Following an evaluation as to whether to exercise the fixed price option, SCE&G expects to file a petition, as provided under the BLRA, for an update to the project’s estimated capital cost schedule which would incorporate the impact of the October 2015 Amendment. Refer to the Exhibit Index for information on where a copy of the October 2015 Amendment is available publicly.

The information summarized above, as well as additional information on these and other related matters, is further discussed at Note 2 and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

Environmental

EPA regulations have a significant impact on the Company's electric operations. In 2015, several regulations were proposed or became final, including the following:

•On June 29, 2015, the Supreme Court ruled that the EPA unreasonably failed to consider costs in its decision to regulate mercury and other specified air pollutants under the MATS rule, but did not vacate MATS. The EPA has indicated that it expects to issue a revised rule responsive to the issue raised by the Supreme Court by April 15, 2016. SCE&G and GENCO have received a one-year extension (until April 2016) to comply with MATS at certain of their generating stations. These extensions will allow time to convert one generating station to burn natural gas and to install additional pollution control devices at other generating stations. SCE&G and GENCO currently are in compliance with the MATS rule and expect to remain in compliance.

•A revised standard for new power plants under the CAA was proposed on August 3, 2015, and requires all new fossil fuel-fired power plants to meet the carbon dioxide emissions profile of a combined cycle natural gas plant. This rule effectively prevents construction of new coal-fired plants without partial carbon capture and sequestration capabilities.

•On August 3, 2015, the EPA issued its final rule under the Clean Power Plan that would regulate carbon dioxide emissions from existing units. This rule includes state-specific goals for reducing national carbon dioxide emissions by 32% from 2005 levels by 2030. The rule provides for nuclear reactors under construction, such as the New Units, to count towards compliance and establishes a phased-in compliance approach beginning in 2022. The rule gives states from one to three years to issue SIPs, which will ultimately define the specific compliance methodology that will be 

26

applied to existing units in that state. It is expected that South Carolina will request a two-year extension (until September 2018). On February 9, 2016, the Supreme Court stayed the rule pending disposition of a petition of review of the rule in the Court of Appeals. The order of the Supreme Court has no immediate impact on SCE&G and GENCO or their generation operations. Any costs incurred to comply with such rule are expected to be recoverable through rates.

•The CWA provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under the CWA, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved in connection with the renewal (every five years) of state-issued NPDES permits. The ELG Rule became effective January 4, 2016. SCE&G and GENCO expect that wastewater treatment technology retrofits will be required at two generating stations and may be required at other facilities. The extent of the station-specific retrofits required and the related schedule for compliance will be determined in connection with each plant's NPDES permit renewal. 

•New federal regulations affecting the management and disposal of CCRs became effective in the fourth quarter of 2015. Under these regulations, CCRs will not be regulated as hazardous waste. These regulations do impose certain requirements on ash storage ponds at SCE&G's and GENCO's generating facilities. These regulations are not expected to have a material effect on SCE&G and GENCO because SCE&G and GENCO have already closed or have begun the process of closure of all of their ash storage ponds.

The above environmental initiatives and similar issues are described in Environmental Matters herein and in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Unless otherwise noted, the Company cannot predict when regulatory rules or legislative requirements for any of these initiatives will become final, if at all, or what conditions they may impose on the Company, if any. The Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates.

Gas Distribution

The local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy purchase, transport and sell natural gas to approximately 881,000 retail customers (as of December 31, 2015) in portions of South Carolina and North Carolina in areas covering approximately 35,000 square miles. Operating results for gas distribution are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, rates allowed to be charged to customers and the ability to control costs. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity of 10.25% for SCE&G and 10.60% for PSNC Energy.

Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by weather, customer growth, the economy and the availability and price of alternate fuels. Natural gas competes with electricity, propane and heating oil to serve the heating and, to a lesser extent, other household energy needs of residential and small commercial customers. This competition is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect price and will impact the Company’s ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers. 

The production of shale gas in the United States continues to keep prices for this commodity at historic lows, and such prices are expected to continue at such levels for the foreseeable future. The supply of natural gas from the Marcellus and Utica shale basins in West Virginia, Pennsylvania and Ohio has prompted companies unaffiliated with SCANA to propose a 550-mile pipeline that would bring natural gas from these basins to Virginia and North Carolina. If successful, the completed pipeline may drive economic development along its path, including areas within PSNC Energy's service territory, and may serve to keep natural gas competitively priced in the region.

Retail Gas Marketing

SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, sells natural gas to approximately 450,000 customers (as of December 31, 2015) throughout Georgia. This market is mature, resulting in lower margins and stiff competition. Competitors include affiliates of large energy companies as well as electric membership cooperatives, among others. SCANA Energy’s ability to maintain its market share primarily depends on the prices it charges customers relative to the prices charged by its competitors and its ability to provide high levels of customer service. In addition, SCANA Energy's operating results are sensitive to weather. 

As Georgia’s regulated provider, SCANA Energy provides service to customers considered to be low-income or that are otherwise unable to obtain natural gas service from other marketers. SCANA Energy provides this service at rates approved 

27

by the GPSC and receives funding from Georgia's Universal Service Fund to offset some of the resulting bad debt. SCANA Energy files financial and other information periodically with the GPSC, and such information is available at www.psc.state.ga.us (which is not intended as an active hyperlink; the information on the GPSC website is not part of this or any other report filed by the Company with the SEC).

SCANA Energy and certain of SCANA’s other natural gas distribution and marketing segments maintain gas inventory and utilize forward contracts and other financial instruments, including commodity swaps and futures contracts, to manage exposure to fluctuating commodity natural gas prices. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. As a part of this risk management process, at any given time, a portion of SCANA’s projected natural gas needs has been purchased or placed under contract. 

Energy Marketing

The divisions of SEMI, excluding SCANA Energy, market natural gas in the southeast and provide energy-related services to customers. Operating results for energy marketing are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas and the ability to control costs. The price of alternate fuels and customer growth significantly affect demand for natural gas. In addition, certain pipeline capacity available for Energy Marketing to serve industrial and other customers is dependent upon the market share held by SCANA Energy in the retail market. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings Per Share

The Company reports earnings determined in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that, in addition to reported earnings under GAAP, the Company's GAAP-adjusted weather-normalized net earnings (and earnings per share) provide a meaningful representation of its fundamental earnings power and can aid in performing period-over-period financial analysis and comparison with peer group data. In management's opinion, in addition to operating income for regulated businesses, GAAP-adjusted weather-normalized net earnings (and earnings per share) are a useful indicator of the financial results of the Company's primary businesses. These measures are also a basis for management's provision of earnings guidance and growth projections and are used in part by management in making budgetary and operational decisions including determining eligibility for certain incentive compensation payments. These non-GAAP performance measures are not intended to replace the GAAP measures of net earnings (or earnings per share), but are offered as supplements to it. A reconciliation of GAAP earnings per share to GAAP-adjusted weather-normalized net earnings per share follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 vs 2014

Earnings per share on a GAAP basis increased due to the sale of CGT and SCI, higher electric margins, lower operation and maintenance expenses and lower depreciation expense. These increases were partially offset by lower gas margins, higher property taxes, lower other income, higher interest expense, a higher effective tax rate and dilution from additional shares outstanding, as further described below.

28

2014 vs 2013

Basic earnings per share on a GAAP basis increased primarily due to the effects of weather, customer growth and base rate increases under the BLRA. Higher electric and gas margins were partially offset by higher operation and maintenance expenses, higher depreciation expense, higher property taxes, dilution from additional shares outstanding and higher interest expense, as further described below.

Discussion of above adjustments:

The sales of CGT and SCI were closed in the first quarter of 2015. These subsidiaries operated principally in wholesale markets, whereas the Company's primary focus is the delivery of energy-related products and services to retail markets. Therefore, CGT and SCI were not a part of the Company's core business. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. In aggregate, these subsidiaries contributed basic earnings per share of $.02 in 2015, $.14 in 2014 and $.15 in 2013.

SCE&G estimates the effects of abnormal weather on its electric business by comparing actual temperatures in its service territory to a historical average. The result is used in developing an estimate of electric margin revenue, using average margin rates, attributable to the effects of abnormal weather. In 2013 the Company's eWNA was still in place, so therefore there was no effect of abnormal weather on the Company's electric margin. In January 2014 the eWNA was terminated by order of the SCPSC. 

Management believes the above adjustments are appropriate in determining the non-GAAP financial performance measures. Such non-GAAP measures reflect management's decision that wholesale gas transportation and telecommunications operations were not a part of the Company's core businesses and would not align with the Company's commitment to serve retail customers on a long-term basis. The non-GAAP measures also provide a consistent basis upon which to measure performance by excluding the effects on per share earnings of abnormal weather in the electric business. 

Diluted earnings per share figures give effect to dilutive potential common stock using the treasury stock method. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.

On February 18, 2016, SCANA declared a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock of $.575 per share.

Electric Operations

Electric Operations is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margin (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 vs 2014

•Margin increased due to downward adjustments of $69.0 million in 2014, compared to downward adjustments of $19.7 million in 2015, pursuant to orders of the SCPSC, related to fuel cost recovery and DSM Programs. These adjustments had no effect on net income as they were fully offset by the recognition, within other income, of gains realized upon the late 2013 settlement of certain derivative interest rate contracts, lower depreciation expense upon the adoption and implementation of revised depreciation rates as a result of an updated depreciation study and the application, as a reduction to operation and maintenance expenses, of a portion of the storm damage reserve. Margin also increased due to base rate increases under the BLRA of $65.7 million and residential and commercial customer growth of $21.4 million. These increases were partially offset by $25.6 million due to the effects of weather, lower industrial margins of $14.6 million primarily due to variable price contracts, and lower collections under the rate rider for pension costs of $3.0 million. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 

29

•Operations and maintenance expenses increased due to the application of $5.0 million in 2014 of the storm damage reserve to offset downward revenue adjustments related to DSM Programs and the amortization of $3.7 million of DSM Programs cost. These increases were partially offset by lower labor costs of $2.0 million primarily due to lower pension cost recognition as a result of lower rate rider collections.

•Depreciation and amortization decreased by $28.7 million in 2015 due to the implementation of the above mentioned revised depreciation rates, $14.5 million of which was offset by downward revenue adjustments. This decrease in depreciation expense was partially offset by increases associated with net plant additions.

•Other taxes increased due primarily to higher property taxes associated with net plant additions.

2014 vs 2013

•Electric margin increased due to the effects of weather of $43.5 million, base rate increases under the BLRA of $54.1 million and customer growth of $14.7 million. These margin increases were partially offset by downward adjustments of $69.0 million in 2014, compared to downward adjustments of $50.1 million in 2013, pursuant to SCPSC orders related to fuel cost recovery, the reversal of undercollected amounts related to SCE&G's eWNA program (the eWNA was discontinued effective with the first billing cycle of 2014) and DSM Programs. Such adjustments are fully offset by the recognition within other income of gains realized upon the late 2013 settlement of certain derivative interest rate contracts and the application, as a reduction to operation and maintenance expenses, of a portion of the storm damage reserve, both of which had been deferred in regulatory accounts. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 

•Operations and maintenance expenses increased due to nonlabor operating expenses of $8.9 million, DSM Programs cost amortization of $2.1 million, higher labor expense of $1.1 million which includes incentive compensation and lower pension cost recognition, storm expenses of $1.1 million and other general expenses of $1.9 million. 

•Depreciation and amortization increased due to net plant additions. 

•Other taxes increased due primarily to higher property taxes associated with net plant additions.

Sales volumes (in GWh) related to the electric margin above, by class, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 vs 2014

Retail sales volumes decreased primarily due to the effects of weather, partially offset by customer growth. 

2014 vs 2013

Retail sales volumes increased primarily due to the effects of weather and customer growth.

Gas Distribution

Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy. Gas Distribution sales margin (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

30

2015 vs 2014

•Margin increased due to residential and commercial customer growth of $7.8 million partially offset by a decrease of $3.1 million at SCE&G due to a SCPSC-approved decrease in base rates under the RSA effective November 2014. 

•Operation and maintenance expenses increased due to higher labor costs, primarily due to incentive compensation. 

•Depreciation and amortization increased due to net plant additions.

•Other taxes increased due primarily to higher property taxes associated with net plant additions.

2014 vs 2013

•Margin increased primarily due to residential and commercial customer growth of $9.1 million and increased average usage at SCE&G of $2.5 million. 

•Operations and maintenance expense increased $0.9 million due to labor. 

•Depreciation and amortization increased due to net plant additions. 

•Other taxes increased due primarily to higher property taxes associated with net plant additions.

Sales volumes (in MMBTU) by class, including transportation gas, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 vs 2014

Residential and commercial firm sales volumes decreased due to the effects of weather and lower average use, partially offset by customer growth. Commercial and industrial interruptible volumes decreased due to a shift to transportation service from system supply and the impact of curtailments, partially offset by lower curtailments at PSNC Energy. Transportation volumes increased due to customers shifting to transportation-only service at SCE&G and increased sales for natural gas fired electric generation in PSNC Energy's territory. 

2014 vs 2013

Total sales volumes increased primarily due to weather and residential and commercial customer growth. Industrial sales volumes decreased primarily due to weather-related curtailments and a customer switching to an alternative fuel source. Transportation sales increased due to an increase in natural gas fired generation, partially offset by curtailments. 

Retail Gas Marketing

Retail Gas Marketing is comprised of SCANA Energy, which operates in Georgia’s natural gas market. Retail Gas Marketing operating revenues and net income were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Changes in operating revenues are primarily related to the lower price of natural gas and weather-related changes in demand. Changes in net income are primarily due to weather-related changes in demand.

Energy Marketing

Energy Marketing is comprised of the Company’s nonregulated marketing operations, excluding SCANA Energy. Energy Marketing operating revenues and net income were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

31

2015 vs 2014

Operating revenues decreased due to lower industrial sales volume and lower market prices. Net income increased due to lower cost of gas and lower costs of transportation to serve customers.

2014 vs 2013

Operating revenues increased due to higher industrial sales volume and higher market prices. Net income decreased due to higher cost to serve customers during periods of pipeline constraints.

Other Operating Expenses

Other operating expenses were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Changes in other operating expenses are largely attributable to the electric operations and gas distribution segments and are addressed in those discussions. Additional information on a consolidated basis is provided below. 

2015 vs 2014 

In addition to factors discussed in the electric operations and gas distribution segments, other operation and maintenance expenses decreased by $24.2 million, depreciation and amortization decreased by $7.8 million and other taxes decreased by $8 million due to the sale of CGT. 

2014 vs 2013

See discussion in the electric operations and gas distribution segments.

Net Periodic Benefit Cost

 Net periodic benefit cost was recorded on the Company's income statements and balance sheets as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Greater than 100%

Pursuant to regulatory orders, SCE&G recovers current pension expense through a rate rider (for retail electric operations) and through cost of service rates (for gas operations), and amortizes pension costs previously deferred in regulatory assets as further described in Note 2 and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. Amounts amortized were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Income (Expense)

Other income (expense) includes the results of certain incidental activities of regulated subsidiaries, the activities of certain non-regulated subsidiaries, and AFC. AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is 

32

capitalized. The Company includes an equity portion of AFC in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. Components of other income (expense) were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Greater than 100%

2015 vs 2014

Other income decreased due primarily to the recognition of $64.0 million of gains in 2014, compared to $5.2 million in 2015, realized upon the settlement of certain interest rate contracts previously recorded as regulatory liabilities pursuant to the SCPSC orders previously discussed. Such gain recognition was fully offset by downward adjustments to revenues reflected within electric margin and had no effect on net income (see electric margin discussion). Other income decreased by $18.3 million and other expenses decreased by $10.9 million due to the sale of SCI. Total other income and other expenses increased by $12.7 million for billings to DCGT for transition services provided at cost pursuant to the terms of the sale of CGT. In 2015 other income also included the gain on the sale of SCI (See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). AFC decreased due to lower AFC rates.

2014 vs 2013

Other income (expense) increased primarily due to the recognition of $64.0 million of gains realized upon the late 2013 settlement of certain interest rate derivative contracts previously recorded as regulatory liabilities pursuant to SCPSC orders previously discussed, compared to $50.1 million of such gains in 2013. Such gain recognition was fully offset by downward adjustments to revenues reflected within electric margin and had no effect on net income. 

Interest Expense

Components of interest expense, net of the debt component of AFC, were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest on long-term debt increased in each year primarily due to increased borrowings.

Income Taxes

Income tax expense increased each year primarily due to increases in income before taxes. Income before taxes, income taxes and the effective tax rate were all higher in 2015 primarily due to the sales of CGT and SCI.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The Company anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met in 2016 through internally generated funds and additional short- and long-term borrowings. In 2017 and beyond, the Company may also meet such obligations through the sale of equity securities. The Company expects that, barring a future impairment of the capital markets, it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future, including the cash requirements for nuclear construction and refinancing maturing long-term debt. 

Cash requirements for SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries arise primarily from their operational needs, funding their construction programs and payment of dividends to SCANA. The ability of the regulated subsidiaries to replace existing plant investment, to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas and to install equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, will depend on their ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their ongoing 

33

construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief.

Due primarily to the availability of proceeds from the sale of two subsidiaries in the first quarter of 2015, the Company began using open market purchases for its stock plans at the end of January 2015. Prior to the use of open market purchases, SCANA common stock was acquired on behalf of participants in SCANA’s Investor Plus Plan and Stock Purchase-Savings Plan through the original issuance of shares. This provided additional equity of approximately $14 million in 2015, $98 million in 2014 and $99 million in 2013. In addition, in March 2013, SCANA settled all forward sales contracts related to its common stock through the issuance of approximately 6.6 million common shares, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $196 million. 

Rating agencies consider qualitative and quantitative factors when assessing SCANA and its rated operating companies’ credit ratings, including regulatory environment, capital structure and the ability to meet liquidity requirements. Changes in the regulatory environment or deterioration of the Company’s commonly monitored financial credit metrics could adversely affect the Company’s debt ratings. This could cause the Company to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and could limit the Company's access to capital markets and liquidity.

Capital Expenditures

Cash outlays for property additions and construction expenditures, including nuclear fuel, were $1.2 billion in 2015. The Company’s current estimates of its capital expenditures for construction and nuclear fuel for the next three years, which are subject to continuing review and adjustment, are as follows:

Estimated Capital Expenditures 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2015 are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the table above in purchase obligations is SCE&G’s portion of a contractual agreement for the design and construction of the New Units at Summer Station. SCE&G expects to be a joint owner and share operating costs and generation 

34

output of the New Units, with SCE&G currently responsible for 55 percent. SCE&G estimates it will cost $750 million to $850 million to acquire an additional 5% ownership in the New Units and has included $750 million for this purpose in other commercial commitments. See also New Nuclear Construction in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Purchase obligations include customary purchase orders under which the Company has the option to utilize certain vendors without the obligation to do so. The Company may terminate such arrangements without penalty.

Other commercial commitments includes estimated obligations under forward contracts for natural gas purchases. Such forward contracts include customary “make-whole” or default provisions, but are not considered to be “take-or-pay” contracts. Certain of these contracts relate to regulated businesses; therefore, the effects of such contracts on fuel costs are reflected in electric or gas rates. Other commercial commitments also includes a “take-and-pay” contract for natural gas which expires in 2019 and estimated obligations for coal and nuclear fuel purchases.

 In addition to the contractual cash obligations above, the Company sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and an unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plan for retirees. The pension plan is adequately funded under current regulations, and no significant contributions are anticipated for the foreseeable future. Cash payments under the postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plan were $10.3 million in 2015, and such annual payments are expected to be the same or increase to as much as $12.3 million in the future.

The Company is party to certain NYMEX natural gas futures contracts for which any unfavorable market movements are funded in cash. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges and their effects are reflected within other comprehensive income until the anticipated sales transactions occur. The Company is also party to certain interest rate derivative contracts for which unfavorable market movements above certain thresholds are funded in cash. Certain of these interest rate derivative contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges, and others are not designated as cash flow hedges but are accounted for pursuant to regulatory orders. See further discussion at ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2015, the Company had posted $14.3 million in cash collateral for such natural gas futures contracts, and had posted $36.1 million in cash collateral related to interest rate derivative contracts.

In connection with the effectiveness of the October 2015 Amendment, SCE&G accrued within accounts payable $250 million (SCE&G's 55% share is $137.5 million) as of December 31, 2015 for the settlement and release of substantially all outstanding disputes between SCE&G and the Consortium. These amounts are not included in capital expenditures and contractual cash obligations above. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

The Company has a legal obligation associated with the decommissioning and dismantling of Summer Station Unit 1 and other conditional AROs that are not listed in contractual cash obligations above. See Notes 1 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the Company has recorded liabilities for certain unrecognized tax benefits that are not included in contractual cash obligations above. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

Financing Limits and Related Matters

The Company’s issuance of various securities, including long-term and short-term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and FERC. 

SCE&G has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness and to assume liabilities as a guarantor(pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue unsecured promissory notes, commercial paper and direct loans in amounts not to exceed $1.6 billion outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less, and may enter into guaranty agreements in favor of lenders, banks, and dealers in commercial paper in amounts not to exceed $600 million. GENCO has obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness not to exceed $200 million outstanding with maturity dates of one year or less. The authority described herein will expire in October 2016.

 In December 2015, the Company's existing five-year committed LOCs were amended, extended and, in some cases, upsized. At December 31, 2015 SCANA, SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy were parties to five-year credit agreements in the amounts of $400 million, $1.2 billion, of which $500 million relates to Fuel Company, and $200 million, respectively, which expire in December 2020. In addition, at December 31, 2015 SCE&G was party to a three-year credit agreement in the amount of $200 million which expires in December 2018. These credit agreements are used for general corporate purposes, including liquidity support for each company's commercial paper program and working capital needs and, in the case of Fuel Company, to finance or refinance the purchase of nuclear fuel, certain fossil fuels, and emission and other 

35

environmental allowances. For a list of banks providing credit support and other information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 

On January 29, 2015, SCANA entered into an unsecured, three-month credit agreement in the amount of $150 million to ensure sufficient liquidity was available to redeem its Junior Subordinated Notes on February 2, 2015. No borrowings were made under this agreement, and it expired according to its terms on February 6, 2015. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under its $2.0 billion credit facilities, had approximately $531 million in commercial paper borrowings outstanding, was obligated under $3.3 million in LOC supported letters of credit, and held approximately $176 million in cash and temporary investments. The Company regularly monitors the commercial paper and short-term credit markets to optimize the timing for repayment of the outstanding balance on its draws, while maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity. Average short-term borrowings outstanding during 2015 were approximately $479 million. Short-term cash needs were met primarily through the issuance of commercial paper.

At December 31, 2015, the Company’s long-term debt portfolio has a weighted average maturity of approximately 20 years and bears an average cost of 5.8%. Substantially all of the Company's long-term debt bears fixed interest rates or is swapped to fixed. To further preserve liquidity, the Company rigorously reviews its projected capital expenditures and operating costs and adjusts them where possible without impacting safety, reliability, and core customer service.

The Company’s articles of incorporation do not limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. However, SCE&G’s bond indenture (relating to the hereinafter defined Bonds) and PSNC Energy’s note purchase and debenture purchase agreements each contain provisions that, under certain circumstances which the Company considers to be remote, could limit the payment of cash dividends on their respective common stock.

The Federal Power Act requires the appropriation of a portion of certain earnings from hydroelectric projects. At December 31, 2015, approximately $72.4 million of retained earnings were restricted by this requirement as to payment of cash dividends on SCE&G’s common stock.

SCANA Corporation

SCANA has an indenture which permits the issuance of unsecured debt securities from time to time including its medium-term notes. This indenture contains no specific limit on the amount of unsecured debt securities which may be issued.

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company

SCE&G is subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which all of its first mortgage bonds (Bonds) have been issued. Bonds may be issued under the Mortgage in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding the sum of (1) 70% of Unfunded Net Property Additions (as therein defined), (2) the aggregate principal amount of retired Bonds and (3) cash deposited with the trustee. Bonds, other than certain Bonds issued on the basis of retired Bonds, may be issued under the Mortgage only if Adjusted Net Earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice (2.0) the annual interest requirements on all outstanding Bonds and Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Bond Ratio was 5.17.

Financing Activities

During 2015, net cash outflows related to financing activities totaled approximately $360 million, primarily associated with the repayment of long-term and short-term debt and payment of dividends, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt. 

In May 2015, SCE&G issued $500 million of 5.1% first mortgage bonds due June 1, 2065. Proceeds from this sale were used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&G’s construction program, to finance capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

On February 2, 2015, SCANA redeemed prior to maturity $150 million of its 7.70% junior subordinated notes at their face value. 

36

In May 2014, SCE&G issued $300 million of 4.5% first mortgage bonds due June 1, 2064. Proceeds from this sale were used to repay short-term debt primarily incurred as a result of SCE&G’s construction program, to finance capital expenditures, and for general corporate purposes.

Investing Activities

To settle interest rate derivative contracts, the Company paid approximately $253 million, net, in 2015, approximately $95 million in 2014 and approximately $6 million, net, through the third quarter of 2013. During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Company received approximately $120 million upon the settlement of interest rate derivatives. 

For additional information, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Major tax incentives included within federal legislation resulted in the allowance of bonus depreciation for property placed in service in 2008 through 2015. These incentives, along with certain other deductions, have had a positive impact on the cash flows of the Company. Bonus depreciation will also be significant for 2016 through 2019 under recent law.

Ratios of earnings to fixed charges for each of the five years ended December 31, 2015, were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The ratio for 2015 reflects the impact of gains recorded upon the sale of certain subsidiaries. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.

NEW NUCLEAR CONSTRUCTION MATTERS

For a discussion of developments related to new nuclear construction, see Note 2 and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

The Company's operations are subject to extensive regulation by various federal and state authorities in the areas of air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes. Applicable statutes and rules include the CAA, CWA, Nuclear Waste Act and CERCLA, among others. In many cases, regulations proposed by such authorities could have a significant impact on the Company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the Company often cannot predict what conditions or requirements will be imposed by regulatory or legislative proposals. To the extent that compliance with environmental regulations or legislation results in capital expenditures or operating costs, the Company expects to recover such expenditures and costs through existing ratemaking provisions.

For the three years ended December 31, 2015, the Company's capital expenditures for environmental control equipment at its fossil fuel generating stations totaled $41.4 million. During this same period, the Company expended approximately $38.5 million for the construction and retirement of landfills and ash ponds, net of disposal proceeds. In addition, the Company made expenditures to operate and maintain environmental control equipment at its fossil plants of $8.7 million in 2015, $9.1 million in 2014 and $9.2 million in 2013, which are included in other operation and maintenance expense, and made expenditures to handle waste ash, net of disposal proceeds, of $1.3 million in 2015, $1.6 million in 2014 and $3.2 million in 2013, which are included in fuel used in electric generation. In addition, included within other operation and maintenance expense is an annual amortization of $1.4 million in each of 2015, 2014 and 2013 related to SCE&G's recovery of MGP remediation costs as approved by the SCPSC. It is not possible to estimate all future costs related to environmental matters, but forecasts for capitalized environmental expenditures for the Company are $15.3 million for 2016 and $88.9 million for the four-year period 2017-2020. These expenditures are included in the Company's Estimated Capital Expenditures table, are discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, and include known costs related to the matters discussed below.

The EPA is conducting an enforcement initiative against the utilities industry related to the NSR provisions and the NSPS of the CAA. As part of the initiative, many utilities have received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA. In addition, the DOJ, on behalf of the EPA, has taken civil enforcement action against several utilities. The primary basis for these actions is the assertion by the EPA that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities at their coal-fired power 

37

plants constituted “major modifications” which required the installation of costly BACT. Some of the utilities subject to the actions have reached settlement. Though the Company cannot predict what action, if any, the EPA will initiate against it, any costs incurred are expected to be recoverable through rates.

With the pervasive emergence of concern over the issue of global climate change as a significant influence upon the economy, SCANA, SCE&G and GENCO are subject to climate-related financial risks, including those involving regulatory requirements responsive to GHG emissions, as well as those involving other potential physical impacts. Other business and financial risks arising from such climate change could also materialize. The Company cannot predict all of the climate-related regulatory and physical risks nor the related consequences which might impact the Company, and the following discussion should not be considered all-inclusive.

Physical effects associated with climate changes could include changes in weather patterns, such as storm frequency and intensity, and any resultant damage to the Company's electric system, as well as impacts on employees and customers and on the Company's supply chain and many others. Much of the service territory of SCE&G is subject to the damaging effects of Atlantic and Gulf coast hurricanes and also to the damaging impact of winter ice storms. To help mitigate the financial risks arising from these potential occurrences, SCE&G maintains insurance on certain properties. As part of its ongoing operations, SCE&G maintains emergency response and storm preparation plans and teams who receive ongoing training and related simulations, all in order to allow the Company to protect its assets and to return its systems to normal reliable operation in a timely fashion following any such event.

Environmental commitments and contingencies are further described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

REGULATORY MATTERS

SCANA and its subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the following entities for the matters noted.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

38

SCE&G and PSNC EnergyThe PHMSA and the DOT as to federal pipeline safety requirements for gas distribution pipeline systems and natural gas transmission systems, respectively. The ORS and the NCUC are responsible for enforcement of federal and state pipeline safety requirement in South Carolina (SCE&G) and North Carolina (PSNC Energy), respectively.

SCANA EnergyThe GPSC through its certification as a natural gas marketer in Georgia and specifically as to retail prices for customers served under its regulated provider contract.

Material retail rate proceedings are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the RSA allows natural gas distribution companies in South Carolina to request annual adjustments to rates to reflect changes in revenues and expenses and changes in investment. Such annual adjustments are subject to certain qualifying criteria and review by the SCPSC.

SCE&G’s electric transmission system is subject to NERC, which develops and enforces reliability standards for the bulk power systems throughout North America. NERC is subject to oversight by FERC.

Dodd-Frank provides for substantial additional regulation of over-the-counter and security-based derivative instruments, among other things, and requires numerous rule-makings by the CFTC and the SEC to implement. The Company has determined that it meets the end-user exception in Dodd-Frank, with the lowest level of required regulatory reporting burden imposed by this law. The Company is currently complying with these enacted regulations and intends to comply with regulations enacted in the future, but cannot predict when the final regulations will be issued or what requirements they will impose.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Following are descriptions of the Company’s accounting policies and estimates which are most critical in terms of reporting financial condition or results of operations.

Accounting for Rate Regulated Operations

SCANA’s regulated utilities record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods in accordance with accounting guidance for rate-regulated utilities. In the future, in the event of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment, the Company may no longer meet the criteria of accounting for rate-regulated utilities, and could be required to write off its regulatory assets and liabilities. Such an event could have a material effect on the results of operations, liquidity or financial position of the Company’s Electric Operations and Gas Distribution segments in the period the write-off would be recorded. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the Company’s regulatory assets and liabilities.

The Company’s generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, the Company could be required to write down its investment in those assets. The Company cannot predict whether any write-downs would be necessary and, if they were, the extent to which they would affect the Company’s results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2015, the Company’s net investments in fossil/hydro and nuclear generation assets were approximately $2.3 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively.

In the future, as a result of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment or changes in accounting requirements, the Company could also be required to write off its regulatory assets and liabilities. Such an event could have a material effect on the Company's results of operations, liquidity or financial position in the period the write-off would be recorded. 

Revenue Recognition and Unbilled Revenues

Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers of the Company’s utilities and retail gas operations are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of the actual reading of their electric and gas meters, the Company records estimates for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. Such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of the amount of energy delivered to customers for which they have not yet been billed. Such unbilled revenues reflect consideration of estimated usage by customer class, the effects of 

39

different rate schedules and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization or other regulatory provisions of rate structures. The accrual of unbilled revenues in this manner properly matches revenues and related costs. Accounts receivable included unbilled revenues of $129.1 million at December 31, 2015 and $186.4 million at December 31, 2014, compared to total revenues of $4.4 billion in 2015 and $5.0 billion in 2014.

Nuclear Decommissioning

Accounting for decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants involves significant estimates related to costs to be incurred many years into the future. Among the factors that could change SCE&G’s accounting estimates related to decommissioning costs are changes in technology, changes in regulatory and environmental remediation requirements, and changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and the estimated timing of cash flows. Changes in any of these estimates could significantly impact the Company’s financial position and cash flows (although changes in such estimates should be earnings-neutral, because these costs are expected to be collected from ratepayers).

Based on a decommissioning cost study, SCE&G’s two-thirds share of estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs for Summer Station Unit 1, including both the cost of decommissioning plant components that are and are not subject to radioactive contamination, totals $696.8 million, stated in 2012 dollars. Santee Cooper is responsible for decommissioning costs related to its one-third ownership interest in Summer Station Unit 1. The cost estimate assumes that upon closure the site would be maintained for 60 years in such a manner as to allow for subsequent decontamination that would permit release for unrestricted use.

Under SCE&G’s method of funding decommissioning costs, amounts collected through rates are invested in insurance policies on the lives of certain Company personnel. SCE&G transfers to an external trust fund the amounts collected through electric rates, insurance proceeds and interest thereon, less expenses. The trusteed asset balance reflects the net cash surrender value of the insurance policies and cash held by the trust. Management intends for the fund, including earnings thereon, to provide for all eventual decommissioning expenditures for Summer Station Unit 1 on an after-tax basis.

Asset Retirement Obligations

The Company accrues for the legal obligation associated with the retirement of long-lived tangible assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and normal operation in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The Company recognizes obligations at present value in the period in which they are incurred, and capitalizes associated asset retirement costs as a part of the carrying amount of the related long-lived assets. Because such obligations relate primarily to the Company’s regulated utility operations, their recognition has no significant impact on results of operations. As of December 31, 2015, the Company has recorded AROs of $176 million for nuclear plant decommissioning (as discussed above) and AROs of $344 million for other conditional obligations primarily related to generation, transmission and distribution properties, including gas pipelines. All of the amounts are based upon estimates which are subject to varying degrees of imprecision, particularly since payments in settlement of such obligations may be made many years in the future. Changes in these estimates will be recorded over time; however, these changes in estimates are not expected to materially impact results of operations so long as the regulatory framework for the utilities remains in place.

Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

The Company recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension plan as an asset or liability and changes in funded status as a component of net periodic benefit cost or other comprehensive income, net of tax, or as a regulatory asset as required by accounting guidance. Accounting guidance requires the use of several assumptions that impact pension cost, of which the discount rate and the expected return on assets are the most sensitive. Net pension cost of $18.0 million recorded in 2015 reflects the use of a 4.20% discount rate derived using a cash flow matching technique, and an assumed 7.5% long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company believes that these assumptions and the resulting pension cost amount were reasonable. For purposes of comparison, a 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate in 2015 would have increased the Company’s pension cost by $1.9 million and increased the pension obligation by $26.8 million. Further, had the assumed long-term rate of return on assets been 7.25%, the Company’s pension cost for 2015 would have increased by $2.1 million.

The following information with respect to pension assets (and returns thereon) should also be noted.

The Company determines the fair value of the majority of its pension assets utilizing market quotes or derives them from modeling techniques that incorporate market data. Less than 10% of assets are valued using less transparent Level 3 methods.

40

In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical performance, targeted allocation amounts and expected payment terms. As of the beginning of 2015, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 6.0%, 5.4%, 8.7% and 8.8%, respectively. The 2015 expected long-term rate of return of 7.50% was based on a target asset allocation of 58% with equity managers, 33% with fixed income managers and 9% with hedge fund managers. Management regularly reviews such allocations and periodically rebalances the portfolio when considered appropriate. As of the beginning of 2016, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 5.3%, 4.6%, 7.2% and 8.7%, respectively. For 2016, the expected rate of return is 7.50%.

Pursuant to regulatory orders, certain previously deferred pension costs are being amortized as described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Current pension expense for electric operations is being recovered through a pension cost rider, and current pension expense related to SCE&G's gas operations is being recovered through cost of service rates.

Pension benefits are not offered to employees hired or rehired after December 31, 2013, and pension benefits for existing participants will no longer accrue for services performed or compensation earned after December 31, 2023. As a result, the significance of pension costs and the criticality of the related estimates to the Company's financial statements will continue to diminish. Further, the pension trust is adequately funded under current regulations, and management does not anticipate the need to make significant pension contributions for the foreseeable future.

The Company accounts for the cost of its postretirement medical and life insurance benefit plan in a similar manner to that used for its defined benefit pension plan. This plan is unfunded, so no assumptions related to rate of return on assets impact the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. The Company used a discount rate of 4.30%, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and recorded a net cost of $19.2 million for 2015. Had the selected discount rate been 4.05% (25 basis points lower than the discount rate referenced above), the expense for 2015 would have been $0.8 million higher and increased the obligation by $9.5 million. Because the plan provisions include “caps” on company per capita costs, and because employees hired after December 31, 2010 are responsible for the full cost of retiree medical benefits elected by them, healthcare cost inflation rate assumptions do not materially impact the net expense recorded. 

OTHER MATTERS

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

SCANA holds insignificant investments in securities and business ventures. SCANA does not engage in significant off-balance sheet financing or similar transactions, although it is party to incidental operating leases in the normal course of business, generally for office space, furniture, vehicles, equipment, airplanes and rail cars. 

Claims and Litigation

For a description of claims and litigation see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.

41

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK