ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

FLIR Systems, Inc. (“FLIR,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a world leader in sensor systems that enhance perception and awareness. We were founded in 1978 to empower people with the ability to see at night using infrared technology and have since become a premier designer, manufacturer, and marketer of thermal imaging systems. Our advanced sensors and integrated sensor systems enable the gathering and analysis of critical information through a wide variety of applications in commercial, industrial, and government markets worldwide.  

Our goal is to both enable our customers to benefit from the valuable information produced by advanced sensing technologies and to deliver sustained superior financial performance for our shareholders. We create value for our customers by providing advanced surveillance and tactical defense capabilities, improving personal and public safety and security, facilitating air, ground, and maritime navigation, enhancing enjoyment of the outdoors, providing infrastructure inefficiency information, conveying pre-emptive structural deficiency data, displaying process irregularities, and enabling commercial business opportunities through our continual support and development of new thermal imaging data and analytics applications. Our business model meets the needs of a multitude of customers – we sell off-the-shelf products to a wide variety of markets in an efficient, timely, and affordable manner as well as offer a variety of system configurations to suit specific customer requirements. Centered on the design of products for low cost manufacturing and high volume distribution, our commercial operating model has been developed over time and provides us with a unique ability to adapt to market changes and meet our customers’ needs.  

Our business is organized into two divisions: Commercial Systems and Government Systems. Within these divisions, we had five reporting segments in 2010: Thermography, Commercial Vision Systems, and Raymarine, which comprise the Commercial Systems division; and Government Systems and ICx, which make up our Government Systems division. For a more detailed description of our segments, see “Business Segments” within Item 1.  

In 2011, due to reorganizations and integrations within both of our divisions, we intend to report our segments as follows: Commercial and Raymarine within our Commercial Systems division and Surveillance, Detection and Integrated Systems within our Government Systems division.  

International revenue accounted for approximately 47 percent, 41 percent and 38 percent of our revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of revenue in the future. We have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations and changing dynamics of foreign competitiveness based on variations in the value of the United States dollar relative to other currencies. Factors contributing to this variability include significant manufacturing activity in Europe, significant sales denominated in currencies other than the United States dollar, and cross currency fluctuations between such currencies as the United States dollar, euro, Swedish kroner and British pound sterling. The impact of those fluctuations is reflected throughout our consolidated financial statements, but in the aggregate, did not have a material impact on our results of operations.  

We experience fluctuations in orders and sales due to seasonal variations and customer sales cycles, such as the seasonal pattern of contracting by the United States and certain foreign governments, the desire of customers to take delivery of equipment prior to fiscal year ends due to funding considerations, and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. Such events have resulted and could continue to result in fluctuations in quarterly results in the future. As a result of such quarterly fluctuations in operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with US generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, goodwill, warranty obligations, contingencies and income taxes on an on-going basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates affect the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue recognition. The majority of our revenue is recognized upon shipment of the product to the customer at a fixed or determinable price and with a reasonable assurance of collection, passage of title to the customer as indicated by the shipping terms and fulfillment of all significant obligations.  

We design, market and sell our products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products. Certain customers request different system configurations, generally based on standard options or accessories that we offer. In general, our revenue arrangements do not involve acceptance provisions based upon customer specified acceptance criteria. In those limited circumstances when customer specified acceptance criteria exist, revenue is deferred until customer acceptance if we cannot demonstrate that the system meets those specifications prior to shipment. For any contracts with multiple elements (i.e., training, installation, additional parts, etc.) undelivered at the end of a reporting period, we recognize revenue on the delivered elements only after we have determined that the delivered elements have stand alone value and any undelivered elements have objective and reliable evidence of fair value. In addition, judgments are required in evaluating the credit worthiness of our customers. Credit is not extended to customers and revenue is not recognized until we have determined that collectability is reasonably assured.  

Allowance for doubtful accounts. Our policy is to maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Credit limits are established through a process of reviewing the financial history and stability of each customer. Where appropriate, we obtain credit rating reports and financial statements of the customer when determining or modifying their credit limits. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors. When a customer’s account balance becomes past due, we initiate dialogue with the customer to determine the cause. If it is determined that the customer will be unable to meet its financial obligation to us, such as in the case of a bankruptcy filing, deterioration in the customer’s operating results or financial position or other material events impacting their business, we record a specific allowance to reduce the related receivable to the amount we expect to recover given all information presently available. Actual write-offs during the past three years have not been material to our results of operations.  

We also record an allowance for all other customers based on certain other factors including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience with individual customers. As of December 31, 2010, our accounts receivable balance of $339.7 million is reported net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $5.1 million. We believe our reported allowances at December 31, 2010, are adequate. If the financial conditions of those customers were to deteriorate, however, resulting in their inability to make payments, we may need to record additional allowances that would result in additional selling, general and administrative expenses being recorded for the period in which such determination is made.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Inventory. Our policy is to record inventory write-downs when conditions exist that indicate that our inventories are likely to be in excess of anticipated demand or are obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventories based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing requirements and alternative usage avenues are explored within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our write-downs are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventories to their net realizable value and establish a new cost basis. As of December 31, 2010, our inventories of $303.2 million are stated net of inventory write-downs. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory write-downs may be required in the future.  

Goodwill. We have recorded goodwill in connection with our business acquisitions. We review goodwill in June of each year, or on an interim basis if required, for impairment to determine if events or changes in business conditions indicate that the carrying value of the goodwill may not be recoverable. Such reviews assess the fair value of the assets based upon our estimates of the future cash flows we expect the assets to generate within the boundaries of the applicable business divisions of the Company. Our current review indicates that no adjustments are necessary for the goodwill assets, which have a carrying value of $482.0 million as of December 31, 2010.  

Product warranties. Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products over a specified period of time, generally twelve to twenty-four months, at no cost to our customers. Our policy is to establish warranty reserves at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements at the time that revenue is recognized. We believe that our recorded liability of $18.7 million at December 31, 2010 is adequate to cover our future cost of materials, labor and overhead for the servicing of our products sold through that date. If actual product failures or material or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, our warranty liability would need to be revised accordingly.  

Contingencies. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies arising in the normal course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted.  

Income taxes. We record our deferred tax assets when the benefits are more likely than not to be recognized. Valuation allowances against deferred tax assets are recorded when a determination is made that the deferred tax assets are not more likely than not to be realized in the future. In making that determination, on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis, we estimate our future taxable income based upon historical operating results and external market data. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon, but not limited to, general economic conditions, competitive pressures and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2010, we have determined that a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets of $7.3 million is required. If we should determine that we may be unable to realize our deferred tax assets to the extent reported, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be recorded in the period such determination is made.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Consolidated Operating Results  

The following table sets forth for the indicated periods certain items as a percentage of revenue:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Totals may not recompute due to rounding  

The following discussion of operating results provides an overview of our operations by addressing key elements in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The “Segment Operating Results” section that follows describes the contributions of each of our business segments to our consolidated revenue and earnings from operations for 2010, 2009 and 2008. Given the nature of our business, we believe revenue and earnings from operations (including operating margin percentage) are most relevant to an understanding of our performance at a segment level. Additionally, at the segment level we disclose backlog, which represents orders received for products or services for which a sales agreement is in place and delivery is expected within twelve months.  

Revenue. Revenue for 2010 totaled $1,385.3 million, an increase of 20.8 percent over 2009 revenue of $1,147.1 million. The increase was primarily due to an 11.4 percent increase in Thermography revenue, a 24.1 percent increase in Commercial Vision Systems revenue and the revenue reported by Raymarine and ICx which were acquired on May 14, 2010 and October 4, 2010, respectively. Revenues from the dates of acquisition for those businesses totaled $150.2 million. Excluding Raymarine and ICx, revenue for 2010 increased by 7.7 percent from 2009.  

Revenue for 2009 totaled $1,147.1 million, an increase of 6.5 percent over 2008 revenue of $1,077.0 million. The increase was primarily due to a 15.2 percent increase in Government Systems and a 14.2 percent increase in Commercial Vision Systems, partially offset by a 12.8 percent decrease in Thermography.  

International revenue in 2010 totaled $652.3 million, representing 47.1 percent of revenue. This compares with international revenue in 2009 which totaled $474.8 million, representing 41.4 percent of revenue and $407.8 million in 2008, representing 37.9 percent of revenue. While the sales mix between United States and international sales may fluctuate from year to year, we expect revenue from customers outside the United States to continue to comprise a significant portion of our total revenue on a long-term basis.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Gross profit. Gross profit in 2010 was 55.1 percent of revenue compared to 57.4 percent of revenue in 2009. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to gross margins at Raymarine and ICx (which have historically lower gross margins than our other three business segments) and the product mix in our Government Systems division, partially offset by production efficiencies related to increased volumes and lower production costs in our Thermography and Commercial Vision Systems manufacturing facilities. Excluding Raymarine and ICx, gross profit was 56.8 percent of revenue in 2010.  

Gross profit in 2009 was 57.4 percent of revenue, compared to 56.3 percent in 2008. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to cost and production efficiencies related to increased volume, product mix and lower production costs in our Thermography manufacturing facilities.  

Cost of goods sold includes materials, labor and overhead costs incurred in the manufacturing of products and services sold in the period as well as warranty costs. Material costs include raw materials, purchased components and sub-assemblies, outside processing and inbound freight costs. Labor and overhead costs consist of direct and indirect manufacturing costs, including wages and fringe benefits, operating supplies, depreciation and amortization, occupancy costs, and purchasing, receiving and inspection costs.  

Research and development. Research and development expenses were $116.4 million, or 8.4 percent of revenue in 2010, compared to $91.3 million, or 8.0 percent of revenue, in 2009, and $90.0 million, or 8.4 percent of revenue, in 2008. The increase in research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue in 2010 was due to higher expenditures for new product development in all business segments, including acquisitions made during 2009 and 2010. The decrease in research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue in 2009 was primarily due to cost containment efforts, such as salary freezes and reduction of consultant expenses, in response to weak economic conditions and due to currency translation.  

We believe that spending levels are sufficient to support the development of new products and the continued growth of the business. We expect research and development expenses to be approximately 8 to 10 percent of revenue on a long-term basis.  

Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $285.7 million, or 20.6 percent of revenue in 2010 compared to $219.9 million, or 19.2 percent of revenue, in 2009 and $231.7 million, or 21.5 percent of revenue, in 2008. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses from 2009 to 2010 was primarily due to increased spending in each of our business segments to support future growth, as well as the operating expenses of businesses acquired during 2009 and 2010, acquisition related costs incurred in 2010 of $9.2 million and a $3.0 million litigation settlement recorded in the third quarter of 2010. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to cost containment efforts in response to economic conditions, currency translation and lower annual incentive compensation costs. During 2009 and 2008 we incurred significant legal costs related to the Raytheon legal matter described in Note 13, “Contingencies,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We anticipate selling, general and administrative expenses in the future to increase at a slower rate than revenue.  

Interest expense. Interest expense totaled $2.9 million, $6.9 million and $14.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Interest expense is primarily attributable to interest on the convertible notes that were issued in June 2003, the amortization of the discounts recorded on the notes and the costs related to the issuance of the notes. The decrease in interest expense in 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily due to the conversions of our outstanding convertible notes in 2009 and 2010, all of which were fully converted by June 2010. The decrease in interest expense in 2009 is primarily due to the conversion of some of our outstanding convertible notes in the fourth quarter of 2008, the third and fourth quarters of 2009 and the exchange of a portion of the convertible notes pursuant to the Company’s exchange offer in the first quarter of 2009.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Interest income. Interest income was $1.3 million, $1.7 million and $7.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in interest income in 2010 and 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to lower interest rates and less invested cash.  

Other income, net. We reported other income of $4.0 million in 2010, other expense of $1.8 million in 2009 and other income of $12.8 million in 2008. The other income in 2010 is primarily currency gain and rental income. The other expense in 2009 is primarily currency losses offset by investment gains. The other income in 2008 is primarily currency gains.  

Income taxes. Our income tax provision was $114.3 million, $110.2 million and $89.4 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective tax rates for 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 31.5 percent, 32.4 percent and 30.8 percent, respectively. The mix in taxable income between our United States and international operations impacted the income tax provisions in each of these years. Our effective tax rate is lower than the United States federal tax rate of 35 percent because of lower foreign tax rates, the effect of foreign tax credits and other federal and state tax credits.  

At December 31, 2010, the Company had United States tax net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $109.5 million which expire between 2025 – 2030. In addition, the Company has various state net operating loss carry-forwards totaling approximately $90.9 million which expire between 2011 – 2030. The federal and state net operating losses were generated by ICx Technologies, Inc. which was acquired by FLIR Systems Inc during 2010.  

Tax benefits as described above are recorded as assets when the benefits are more likely than not to be recognized. To the extent that we assess the realization of such assets to not be more likely than not, a valuation allowance is required to be recorded. We believe that the net deferred tax assets of $32.7 million reflected on the December 31, 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheet are materially realizable based on future forecasts of taxable income over a relatively short time horizon, but we have determined that a valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets of $7.3 million is required, primarily related to certain acquired net operating losses. A valuation allowance is required when it is more-likely-than-not that all or a portion of deferred tax assets may not be realized. A review of all available positive and negative evidence is considered, including past and future performance, the market environment in which the Company operates, utilization of tax attributes in the past, length of carryback and carryforward periods, and evaluation of potential tax planning strategies when evaluating the realizability of deferred tax assets.  

Discontinued operations. Certain operations that were included in the acquisition of ICx have been identified as available for sale and their results are reported as discontinued operations.  

Segment Operating Results  

Thermography  

Thermography operating results are as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

39  

Table of Contents 

Revenue increased by 11.4 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increased revenue in the United States and the Asia Pacific region and across most of the segment’s product lines. The improvement in the United States is partially attributable to improved economic conditions in the commercial markets and the improvement in the Asia Pacific region is partially due to further market and country penetration. The improvement in operating margins from 2009 to 2010 is primarily due to production efficiencies in our manufacturing facilities and our ability to increase our operating expenses at a lower rate than our increase in revenue.  

Revenue decreased by 12.8 percent in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to worldwide economic conditions experienced in 2009 and lower demand for our high value products. While our revenue declined from 2008 to 2009, our operating margin improved due to operating efficiencies in our manufacturing facilities and cost containment efforts in response to the worsened economic conditions.  

Commercial Vision Systems  

Commercial Vision Systems operating results are as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Revenue increased by 24.1 percent in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to increased unit sales in our security, transportation and maritime product lines and the introduction in 2010 of the personal night vision systems products. Earnings from operations increased by 50.2% due to the increase in revenue and manufacturing efficiencies resulting from higher production volumes and lower material costs on new products.  

Revenue increased by 14.2 percent in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to increased units deliveries across most of the segment’s product lines. The production efficiencies that resulted from the increase in unit volumes were the primary reason for the increase in operating margin from 2008 to 2009.  

Raymarine  

Raymarine operating results are as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Raymarine was acquired on May 14, 2010 and the operating results are for the period since the acquisition. The earnings from operations include the impact of the amortization of intangible assets of $2.1 million.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Government Systems  

Government Systems operating results are as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Revenue increased by 0.9 percent in 2010 compared to 2009. Higher deliveries of ground-based products and the revenue from a business acquired in October 2009 was offset by decreases in revenue from airborne and maritime products as spending by US Government agencies declined in 2010. The change in product mix and increased operating expenses of the segment resulted in the decline in earnings from operations and operating margin from 2009 to 2010. The decline in backlog from 2009 to 2010 was primarily due to deliveries on US Government programs that were booked in prior years and the reduced procurement activity by our US Government customers in 2010.  

Revenue increased by 15.2 percent in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase was primarily due to the increase in unit deliveries of airborne products on certain US Government agency programs. The increase in earnings from operations from 2008 to 2009 was attributable to the increase in revenue. The decline in backlog from 2008 to 2009 was primarily due to deliveries on large US Government programs that were booked in 2008.  

ICx  

ICx operating results are as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

ICx was acquired on October 4, 2010 and the operating results are for the period since the acquisition. The earnings from operations include the impact of the amortization of intangible assets of $1.5 million and the fair value adjustments on inventory of $3.6 million during the reporting period.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

At December 31, 2010, we had $193.1 million in cash and cash equivalents compared to $422.0 million at December 31, 2009. The decrease in cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to cash used for business acquisitions, capital expenditures and repurchases of our common stock, partially offset by cash provided by operations and cash proceeds and tax benefits generated from our stock-based compensation programs.  

Cash provided by operating activities in 2010 totaled $255.4 million compared to $271.8 million in 2009 and $218.3 million in 2008. The decrease in cash provided from operating activities in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable, inventories, and deferred tax assets, offset by an increase in net earnings compared to 2009. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to an increase in net earnings and a lower level of net cash used in 2009 for operating assets and liabilities.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 totaled $465.4 million, primarily consisting of the acquisitions of Raymarine for $174.7 million and ICx for $228.0 million and capital expenditures of $66.0 million. Capital expenditures in 2010 included the purchase of two buildings for $36.2 million. Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 totaled $107.7 million, primarily consisting of the acquisitions of Salvador, OmniTech, and Directed Perception and capital expenditures of $41.9 million which include the purchase of a building for $9.7 million. Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $114.0 million, primarily consisting of the acquisitions of Cedip and Ifara Technologias and capital expenditures.  

Cash used for financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 totaled $6.5 million, primarily consisting of the repurchase of approximately 1.3 million shares of our common stock, offset by proceeds from shares issued for, and tax benefits recognized from, our stock-based compensation plans. Cash used from financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009 totaled $43.5 million, primarily consisting of the repurchase of approximately 3.2 million shares of our common stock, offset by proceeds from shares issued for, and tax benefits recognized from, our stock-based compensation plans. Cash provided from financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2008 totaled $2.6 million, primarily consisting of proceeds from shares issued for, and tax benefits recognized from, our stock-based compensation plans, offset by the repurchase of approximately 1.2 million shares of our common stock and repayments of short-term debt.  

On October 6, 2006, we signed a Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., Union Bank of California, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association and other Lenders. The Credit Agreement provided for a $300 million, five-year revolving line of credit. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had no amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. We had $6.5 million and $7.8 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which reduced the total available credit. This credit facility was terminated on February 8, 2011.  

On July 7, 2010, we entered into an uncommitted letter of credit agreement with Bank of America to support letters of credit whose expiration would extend beyond the Credit Agreement. At December 31, 2010, the total value of letters of credit outstanding under this facility was $8.6 million.  

On February 8, 2011, we signed a new Credit Agreement (“New Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association, JPMorgan Chase Bank N.A and other Lenders. The New Credit Agreement provides for a $200 million, five-year revolving line of credit. We have the right, subject to certain conditions including approval of additional commitments by qualified lenders, to increase the line of credit by an additional $150 million until October 8, 2016. The New Credit Agreement allows us and certain designated subsidiaries to borrow in US dollars, euro, kroner, pound sterling and other agreed upon currencies. The New Credit Agreement requires us to pay a commitment fee on the amount of unused credit at a rate, based on the Company’s leverage ratio, which ranges from 0.25 percent to 0.40 percent. The New Credit Agreement contains two financial covenants that require the maintenance of certain leverage ratios. The five-year revolving line of credit available under the New Credit Agreement is not secured by any of our assets.  

Our Sweden subsidiary has a 30 million Swedish kroner (approximately $4.4 million) line of credit with an interest rate at 2.158 percent at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2010, we had no amounts outstanding on this line of credit. The 30 million Swedish kroner line of credit is secured primarily by accounts receivable and inventories of the Sweden subsidiary and is subject to automatic renewal on an annual basis.  

We believe that our existing cash combined with the cash we anticipate generating from operating activities, and our available credit facilities and financing available from other sources will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next twelve months. We do not have any significant commitments nor are we aware of any significant events or conditions that are likely to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

As of December 31, 2010, we leased our non-owned facilities under operating lease agreements. We also leased certain operating machinery and equipment and office equipment under operating lease agreements. Except for these operating lease agreements, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.  

Contractual Obligations  

As of December 31, 2010, our contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating leases and licensing rights obligations are based upon contractual terms. Actual payments may differ in terms of both timing and amounts.  

We did not include $30.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows as of December 31, 2010. We are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities and the total amounts of income tax payable and the timing of such tax payments may depend on the resolution of current and future tax examinations which cannot be estimated.  

We did not include approximately $15.1 million of standby letters of credit and performance bonds due to the unlikely event of payment, if any, of amounts under those arrangements.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.  

 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK