ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our credit agreements. The credit agreements are at variable rates. A change in interest rates under the credit agreements impacts the interest that we incur and our cash flows. At December 31, 2010, no amounts were outstanding under our credit agreements; consequently, no sensitivity analysis is presented.  

We have assets and liabilities outside the United States that are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Similarly, certain revenues from products sold in countries outside the United States and costs associated with non-US operations are denominated in foreign currencies. For more information on our foreign currency translation, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Assets and liabilities located outside the United States are primarily located in Europe. Our investments in subsidiaries outside the United States with functional currencies other than the United States dollar are considered long-term. We currently engage in limited forward currency exchange contracts and other similar hedging activities to reduce our  

43  

Table of Contents 

 economic exposure to changes in exchange rates. At December 31, 2010, exchange contracts with a notional amount of approximately $66.8 million were outstanding. Because we market, sell and license our products throughout the world, we could be adversely affected by weak economic conditions in international markets that could reduce demand for our products.  

Our net investment in subsidiaries outside the United States, translated into United States dollars using the period-end exchange rates at December 31, was approximately $486.9 million and $404.1 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign exchange rates would be approximately $48.7 million and $40.4 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in the potential loss in fair value is primarily due to the increase in the net investment of subsidiaries outside the United States. We have no plans to liquidate any of our subsidiaries outside the United States, and therefore, foreign exchange rate gains or losses on our international investments are reflected as a cumulative translation adjustment and do not increase or reduce our reported net earnings.  

 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA