Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

The Company’s fiscal 2010 financial information is summarized in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the related Notes. The following background is essential to more fully understand the Company’s financial information.  

Patterson operates a distribution business in three complementary markets: dental supply, veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply. Historically the Company’s strategy for growth focused on internal growth and the acquisition of smaller distributors and businesses offering related products and services to the dental market. In fiscal 2002, the Company expanded its strategy to take advantage of a parallel growth opportunity in the veterinary supply market by acquiring the assets of J. A. Webster, Inc. on July 9, 2001. The Company added a third component to its business platform in fiscal 2004 when it entered the rehabilitation supply market with the acquisition of AbilityOne Products Corp. (“AbilityOne”) on September 12, 2003. AbilityOne is now known as Patterson Medical.  

Operating margins of the veterinary business are considerably lower than the dental and rehabilitation supply businesses. While operating expenses run at a lower rate in the veterinary business, its gross margin is substantially lower. Over the past three years, the veterinary business has grown at a faster rate than the other two businesses, resulting in dilution of the consolidated operating margin.  

There are several important aspects of the Company’s business that are useful in analyzing the Company, including: (1) market growth in the various markets it operates; (2) internal growth; (3) growth through acquisition; and (4) continued focus on controlling costs and enhancing efficiency. Management defines “internal growth” as the increase in net sales from period to period, excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, and excluding the net sales, for a period of twelve months following the transaction date, of businesses that it has acquired.  

The Company operates with a 52-53 week accounting convention with its fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in April. The fiscal years ending in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were all comprised of 52 weeks. In fiscal 2011, the Company will report 53 weeks of operations.  

During fiscal 2008, the Company executed a series of transactions that effectively changed our capital structure, lowering our weighted average cost of capital by almost 100 basis points, and positioned the Company to increase returns to our shareholders. First, the Company repurchased approximately 18 million shares of its common stock on the open market and through an accelerated share repurchase agreement for approximately $636 million. A portion of the funding for the share repurchases came from debt issued in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, consisting of fixed-rate private placement notes totaling $450 million and a variable-rate term loan of $75 million. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share. The Company currently expects to continue paying a quarterly cash dividend into the foreseeable future.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Results of Operations   

The following table summarizes the consolidated results of operations over the past three fiscal years as a percent of sales:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009  

Net Sales. Fiscal 2010 consolidated sales were $3,237.4 million, an increase of 4.6% compared to $3,094.2 million in fiscal 2009. Acquisitions contributed 4.1% to sales growth, resulting mostly from acquisitions by the veterinary and rehabilitation units. Fluctuations in foreign currency translation rates contributed 0.4% to sales growth. During both fiscal 2010 and 2009, sales at each of our business units were adversely affected by the recession and slow economic recovery. The Company believes the weakness in the general economy will continue to affect our performance in fiscal 2011.  

Sales of our consolidated dental supply unit were $2,167.5 million, a decrease of 0.3% from $2,174.4 million in fiscal 2009. Fluctuations in foreign currency rates related to our dental operations in Canada and the contribution from acquisitions had a favorable impact on fiscal 2010 sales of 0.6% and 0.7%, respectively. Sales of dental consumable supplies decreased 0.2% to $1,214.8 million. Beginning late in the first half of fiscal 2009 and continuing throughout fiscal 2010, the sales of consumables have been affected by reduced discretionary spending and high levels of unemployment resulting from the general economic conditions, particularly in the United States.  

Dental equipment sales declined 3.0% in fiscal 2010 to $709.5 million. We believe the weak economy has caused many dental practitioners to focus their investment dollars on equipment with rapid and high rates of return. Sales of basic equipment were 7.5% lower in fiscal 2010, while sales of CEREC® 3D dental restorative systems rose 15.7%. Within the basic equipment category, certain technology products with rapid rates of return such as digital imaging systems (sensors, panoramic and cone beam units) outperformed core equipment such as chairs, power units and cabinetry.  

Other dental sales, consisting primarily of technical service parts and labor, software support services and artificial teeth, grew 7.7% in fiscal 2010.  

Sales of Webster Veterinary grew 16.9% to $643.6 million. Acquisitions, primarily the Columbus Serum Company (“Columbus”) acquired in October 2008, contributed 11.5% of the sales growth. Internally generated sales rose 5.4%.  

Patterson Medical sales of $426.3 million were 15.5% higher than fiscal 2009. Acquisitions, primarily those of Mobilis Healthcare Group (“Mobilis”) late in fiscal 2009 and Empi Therapy Solutions (“Empi”) in June 2009, contributed 13.4% of the sales growth. Internally generated sales growth, which excludes the contribution of acquisitions and a 0.3% negative impact related to foreign currency translation rates, was 2.4% in fiscal 2010.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin was 33.7% in both fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009.  

The Dental segment’s gross margin improved 40 basis points to 36.8% in fiscal 2010, largely due to product mix. Core equipment such as chairs, units and lights, generally have a lower gross margin than newer, technology related equipment.  

Gross margin of the Veterinary unit was unchanged at 19.5%.  

Patterson Medical’s gross margin declined 30 basis points due primarily to the Mobilis and Empi acquisitions which carry lower gross margins than Patterson Medical’s historical business. As the Company continues to integrate these acquisitions, it believes that this margin erosion will be recovered.  

Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio in fiscal 2010 was 22.7%, or 20 basis points higher than fiscal 2009. In the second half of fiscal 2009 and continuing throughout fiscal 2010, the Company took steps involving a range of cost control initiatives including a hiring freeze except in the area of sales representatives, a wage freeze and restrictions on travel and other more discretionary expenses. In the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company enacted company-wide salary reductions. While these measures have slowed expense growth, their impact was lessened by acquisition-related expenses, including amortization expense, and higher levels of incentive compensation based on achievement of operating targets for the current year.  

The Dental unit’s operating expense ratio increased 40 basis points, reflecting increased fixed costs on lower sales volume and expense related to acquisitions completed over the past two years.  

The ratio of the Veterinary unit’s operating expenses as a percent of sales improved 10 basis points, primarily due to leverage on higher sales.  

Patterson Medical’s operating expense ratio increased 70 in fiscal 2010 due primarily to the cost structure of recent acquisitions.  

Operating Income. Operating income was $355.3 million in fiscal 2010, or 2.6% higher compared to $346.2 million in fiscal 2009. Operating margin was 11.0% and 11.2% in fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively, as increases in semi-variable and fixed costs outpaced revenue growth causing the de-leveraging of the expense structure.  

Interest Expense. Interest expense was $25.7 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $30.1 million in fiscal 2009. The $4.4 million decrease in interest expense is due primarily to $130 million of scheduled debt payments made in November 2008.  

Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, was $9.4 million in fiscal 2010 compared to $3.6 million in fiscal 2009. Interest income increased $3.1 million due primarily to higher levels of finance contracts held during fiscal 2010. Besides higher interest income, other income was $0.9 million, a change of $2.7 million from the loss of $1.8 million in fiscal 2009, due primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency rates.  

Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 37.4% in fiscal 2010 as compared to 37.5% in fiscal 2009.  

Net Income and Earnings Per Share. Net income increased 6.3% to $212.3 million in fiscal 2010 due to increases in operating income and other income, net as discussed above. Earnings per diluted share and dilutive shares outstanding were $1.78 and 119.2, respectively, in fiscal 2010 and $1.69 and 118.4 million, respectively, in fiscal 2009.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008  

Net Sales. Consolidated sales in fiscal 2009 were $3,094.2 million, an increase of 3.2% compared to $2,998.7 million in fiscal 2008. Acquisitions contributed 3.8% to sales growth, resulting primarily from an acquisition by the veterinary unit. Fluctuations in foreign currency translation rates reduced sales by 1.1%. During the final three quarters of fiscal 2009, sales at each of our business units were adversely affected by the economic recession.  

Sales of our consolidated dental supply unit declined to $2,174.4 million, a decrease of 0.3% compared to $2,181.3 million in fiscal 2008. Acquisitions had a positive impact on sales of 0.9%, while fluctuations in foreign currency rates related to our dental operations in Canada reduced sales by 1.0%. Sales of dental consumable supplies of $1,217.2 million were virtually unchanged from fiscal 2008. In the first half of fiscal 2009, an economy related trend of patients deferring higher-level and discretionary services began and continued throughout the year.  

Dental equipment sales declined 1.7% in fiscal 2009, including a 2.0% decrease in basic equipment. Sales of CEREC® 3D dental restorative systems were 0.7% lower in fiscal 2009, but did grow 5.7% in the second half of fiscal 2009. CEREC system sales in the second half of the year benefitted from promotional financing arrangements which were made available to qualified customers, as well the January 2009 introduction of a new digital image acquisition unit by the manufacturer, Sirona Dental Systems, that provides significantly greater ease of use and imaging precision.  

Other dental sales, consisting primarily of technical service parts and labor, software support services and artificial teeth, grew 3.2% in fiscal 2009.  

Webster Veterinary fiscal 2009 sales of $550.6 million increased 23.3% from $446.4 million in fiscal 2008. Acquisitions, primarily Columbus, contributed 19.7% of the sales growth. During the second half of the year, veterinary clinics were negatively affected by the contracted economy.  

Sales declined 0.5% at Patterson Medical, including a negative impact of 2.9% related to foreign currency rates. The impact of currency on sales growth was partially offset by a contribution of 1.6% from acquisitions.  

Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin declined 70 basis points to 33.7% due to the Veterinary unit’s sales representing a larger percentage of consolidated sales in fiscal 2009. Since Veterinary gross margins are lower than the other two business units, the increase in Veterinary’s sales as a percentage of consolidated sales has a dilutive impact on the consolidated gross margin. In addition, the gross margin of Columbus is somewhat lower than the historical Webster Veterinary gross margin.  

The Dental segment’s gross margin was unchanged from fiscal 2008.  

Gross margin of the Veterinary unit declined 110 basis points in fiscal 2009, due mostly to lower levels of vendor rebates earned and the lower Columbus gross margins.  

Patterson Medical’s gross margin improved 40 basis points in fiscal 2009, due mostly to better freight management and product pricing.  

Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio in fiscal 2009 was 22.5%, or 10 basis points higher than fiscal 2008. Beginning the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the Company began taking steps comprising a range of cost control initiatives including a hiring freeze except in the area of sales representatives, a wage freeze and restrictions on travel.  

Operating expenses as a percent of sales at the Dental unit increased 70 basis points, reflecting lost leverage on lower than planned sales.  

36  

Table of Contents 

The Veterinary unit’s operating expense ratio improved 30 basis points due primarily to the Columbus business, which had a somewhat lower operating expense ratio as compared to that of the historical Veterinary unit’s operations.  

Patterson Medical’s operating expense ratio improved 50 basis points in fiscal 2009 compared to 2008. In addition to the impact of expense control initiatives, the impact of added infrastructure expense at the branch locations that were added over the past three years has dissipated as the locations have become more established.  

Operating Income. Operating income was $346.2 million in fiscal 2009, down $13.0 million, or 3.6%, from $359.2 million in fiscal 2008. Operating margin was 11.2% and 12.0% in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Interest Expense. Interest expense was $30.1 million compared to $12.8 million in fiscal 2008. In March 2008, the Company issued $525 million of long-term debt which resulted in the higher level of interest expense in fiscal 2009.  

Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, was $3.6 million compared to $11.0 million in fiscal 2008. Interest income decreased $4.3 million due primarily to a decline in interest rates on cash and cash equivalents. Besides lower interest income, other loss, net was $1.8 million in fiscal 2009, compared to a gain of $1.3 million in fiscal 2008, due primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency rates.  

Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 37.5% in fiscal 2009 as compared to 37.1% in fiscal 2008.  

Net Income and Earnings Per Share. Net income declined 11.2% to $199.6 million due to a decrease in operating income and an increase in interest expense. Share repurchase activity in the second half of fiscal 2008 resulted in a decrease in shares outstanding in fiscal 2009. Earnings per diluted share and dilutive shares outstanding were $1.69 and 118.4 million, respectively, in fiscal 2009 and $1.69 and 132.9 million, respectively, in fiscal 2008.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Patterson’s operating cash flow has been the Company’s principal source of liquidity in the last three fiscal years. The issuance of $525 million of debt in March 2008 was used primarily to repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock. During fiscal 2009 and in early fiscal 2010, the Company used its revolving credit facility periodically as a source of liquidity in addition to operating cash flow.  

Operating activities generated cash of $265.5 million in fiscal 2010, compared with $124.0 million in fiscal 2009, and $265.4 million in fiscal 2008. In the second half of fiscal 2009, the Company invested in a financing program to support marketing efforts directed at the CEREC product line. At the end of fiscal 2009, this promotion, which ended at the close of fiscal 2009, had generated approximately $98 million of finance contracts that the Company could not immediately sell to our funding sources due to certain requirements in those funding arrangements. In fiscal 2010, the Company invested in similar financing programs, but to a lesser degree. As of April 24, 2010, the Company held approximately $63 million of finance contracts that are expected to be fully liquidated in fiscal 2011.  

Capital expenditures were $29.8, $32.3 and $36.0 million in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Significant expenditures in these years included the expansion of existing distribution facilities to accommodate multiple business units, the expansion of our general office building and continuing investments in information systems. In addition, late in fiscal 2010 the Company purchased a building in Indiana which will be built-out during fiscal 2011 and will serve as a distribution facility used by all three business units. It is intended that this facility will replace several smaller distribution facilities.  

37  

Table of Contents 

The Company expects to invest approximately $35 to $40 million in capital expenditures during fiscal 2011, including the build-out of the Indiana distribution facility discussed above and the construction of a new, one hundred thousand square foot, state-of-the-art technology center that will replace our smaller current technology center.  

Cash used for acquisitions and equity investments totaled $53.7 million in fiscal 2010 compared to cash used for acquisitions of $124.8 million in fiscal 2009 and $22.7 million in fiscal 2008. The acquisition of Empi Therapy Solutions and investment in VetSource accounted for the majority of the cash used in fiscal 2010. The acquisitions of Columbus, Dolphin, and Mobilis accounted for the majority of the cash used in 2009.  

In fiscal 2010, the Company fully paid the $22 million that was outstanding under a revolving credit facility at the end of fiscal 2009. A maximum of $300 million is available under this facility which expires in fiscal 2013. Payments on long-term debt in fiscal 2009 were $130 million and related to a scheduled retirement of debt that had been issued in fiscal 2004.  

As noted above, in March 2008, the Company closed on $525 million of long-term debt financing which was comprised of $450 million of fixed-rate private notes with maturities of five, seven and ten years in addition to a $75 million five-year term loan at a floating rate of interest through a group of banks. The Company used $250 million of the debt financing to repurchase shares under an accelerated share repurchase agreement (“ASR”). The remaining proceeds from the debt issuances were used to repay borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit agreement and for general corporate purposes.  

During the second half of fiscal 2008, the Company purchased shares of its common stock on the open market, under a 25 million share repurchase program authorized by the board of directors. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company entered into the ASR under which it paid $250 million and took an initial delivery of 6.3 million shares. In total, the Company repurchased approximately 18 million shares for $636.1 million during fiscal 2008. Under the terms of the ASR, the Company could have received additional shares, or could have been required to pay the counterparty in the form of either cash or shares. The final settlement of the ASR occurred in June 2008, with an additional 1.1 million shares delivered to the Company. As of April 24, 2010, 5.9 million shares can be repurchased under the current authorization by the board of directors, which expires on December 31, 2012.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company declared and paid an initial quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share. In fiscal 2011, the Company expects to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend and to return a portion of its excess cash to shareholders through additional open market purchases of its common stock under the current authorization discussed above. The level of open market purchases should approximate the number of shares issued under various employee stock programs during the year such that the total number of outstanding shares will remain fairly consistent.  

Management expects funds generated from operations and existing cash to be sufficient to meet the Company’s working capital needs for the next fiscal year. The Company expects to continue to obtain liquidity from the sale of its equipment finance contracts. In addition, as of April 24, 2010, $300 million is available under a revolving credit facility. The Company’s existing debt facilities are believed to be adequate as a supplement to internally generated cash flows to fund anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives, including acquisitions.  

The Company sells a significant portion of its finance contracts to a commercial paper funded conduit managed by a third party bank, and as a result, commercial paper is indirectly an important source of liquidity for the Company. The Company is allowed to participate in the conduit due to the quality of its finance contracts and its financial strength. Cash flow could be impaired if the Company’s financial strength diminished to a level that precluded the Company from taking part in this facility or other similar facilities. Also, market conditions outside of the Company’s control could adversely affect the ability of the Company to sell the contracts.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Customer Financing Arrangements  

The Company is a party to two arrangements under which it has sold finance contracts it receives from its customers to outside financial institutions. These arrangements have provided sources of liquidity for the Company that would have to be replaced should each of the current financial institutions be unable or unwilling to continue in the arrangements. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, one agreement with group of banks led by U.S. Bank National Association with capacity of $110 million was amended such that no additional contracts will be sold under the arrangement. At the same time, the Company’s other agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A was amended to increase capacity from $367 million to $550 million. The Company’s financing business is described in further detail in Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Note 6, “Customer Financing”, discusses the nature and business purpose of the arrangements and the activity under each arrangement during fiscal 2010, including the amount of finance contracts sold and the holdback receivable owed to the Company.  

Contractual Obligations  

A summary of the Company’s contractual obligations as of April 24, 2010 follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As discussed in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company adopted the provisions of ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes” related to uncertainty in income taxes at the beginning of fiscal 2008. The Company is unable to determine its contractual obligations by year related to this pronouncement, as the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of its reserves for income taxes cannot be reasonably estimated. The total liability for unrecognized tax benefits including interest and penalties at April 24, 2010, is $21.5 million.  

For a more complete description of our contractual obligations, see Notes 7 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Outlook  

Over the last ten years, the Company has been able to grow revenue and earnings through its strategy of emphasizing its value-added, full-service capabilities, using technology to enhance customer service, continuing to improve operating efficiencies, and growing through internal expansion and acquisitions. While we believe that the weakness in the general economy that has existed during much of fiscal 2010 and 2009 will continue to affect our performance for at least several more quarters, the Company’s strategy will continue to focus on these key elements. With strong operating cash flow and available credit capacity, the Company is confident that it will be able to financially support its future growth. The Company believes that the strategic initiatives that it has implemented in the past several years, as well as those that will be implemented in fiscal 2011 and beyond, will strengthen the Company’s operational platform and contribute to future growth. Given these factors, the Company considers itself well positioned to capitalize upon the growth opportunities in the dental supply, companion-pet veterinary supply and the worldwide rehabilitation supply markets.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Asset Management  

The following table summarizes the Company’s days sales outstanding (DSO) and inventory turnover the past three fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Receivables as of April 24, 2010 and April 25, 2009 include approximately $63 and $98 million, respectively, of finance contracts received from customers related to financing promotions in fiscal 2010 and 2009. The Company has sold contracts in fiscal 2010 and expects to sell the contracts held as of April 24, 2010 to outside institutions under an existing agreement during fiscal 2011. If these finance contracts are excluded from the calculation of DSO, the pro forma DSO would be 44 as of both April 24, 2010 and April 25, 2009.  

 (2) The inventory values used in this calculation are the LIFO inventory values for all inventories except for manufactured inventories and foreign inventories, which are valued using FIFO inventory methods.  

Foreign Operations  

Foreign sales are derived primarily from Patterson Dental and Patterson Medical operations in Canada and from Patterson Medical’s operations in the U.K. and France. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have not significantly impacted earnings. However, changes in exchange rates enhanced net sales in fiscal 2010 and 2008, and adversely affected net sales in fiscal 2009. Without foreign currency effects, net sales would have been $11.5 million lower, $33.4 million higher, and $27.0 million lower in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Changes in currency exchange rates are a risk accompanying foreign operations, but this risk is not considered material with respect to the consolidated operations of the Company.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The Company has adopted various accounting policies to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes that the Company’s policies are conservative and its philosophy is to adopt accounting policies that minimize the risk of adverse events having a material impact on recorded assets and liabilities. However, the preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and judgments regarding the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities based on the information available to management at the time. Changes subsequent to the preparation of the financial statements in economic, technological and competitive conditions may materially impact the recorded values of the Company’s assets and liabilities. Therefore, the users of the financial statements should read all the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and be aware that conditions currently unknown to management may develop in the future. This may require a material adjustment to a recorded asset or liability to consistently apply the Company’s significant accounting principles and policies that are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial performance and condition of the Company may also be materially impacted by transactions and events that the Company has not previously experienced and for which the Company has not been required to establish an accounting policy or adopt a generally accepted accounting principle.  

Revenue Recognition—Revenues are generated from the sale of consumable products, equipment, software products and services, technical service parts and labor, freight and delivery charges, and other sources. Revenues are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed and final, and there is reasonable assurance of collection of the sale. Estimates for returns, damaged goods, rebates, loyalty programs and other revenue allowances are made at the time the revenue is recognized based on the historical experience for such items.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Consumable product sales are recorded upon delivery, except in those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point.  

Equipment and software product revenues are recognized upon delivery and, if necessary, installation. In those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point, revenues are recognized when products are transferred to the shipping carrier. Revenue derived from post contract customer support for software is deferred and recognized ratably over the period in which the support is provided.  

Other revenue including freight and delivery charges and technical service parts and labor is recognized when the related product revenue is recognized or when the product or services are provided to the customer.  

Patterson Advantage Loyalty Program—Patterson Dental provides a point-based awards program to qualifying customers involving the issuance of “Patterson Advantage dollars” which can be used toward equipment and technology purchases. The program was initiated on January 1, 2009 and runs on a calendar year schedule. Patterson Advantage dollars earned during a program year expire one year after the end of the program year. The cost and corresponding liability associated with the program is recognized as contra-revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 605-50, “Revenue Recognition-Customer Payments and Incentives.”  

Inventory and Reserves—Inventory consists primarily of merchandise held for sale and is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for all inventories, except for foreign inventories and manufactured inventories, which are valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company continually assesses the valuation of our inventories and reduces the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of our forecasted usage to estimated realizable value. Estimates are made of the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements.  

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets—Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets include copyrights, trade names and trademarks.  

Goodwill for each reporting unit is evaluated using a two-step impairment test at the reporting unit level. The Company has three reporting units at April 24, 2010, which are the same as our operating units. The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the book value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, with its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed to determine the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recorded. The determination of fair value involves uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry and economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. The Company conducts impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. Additionally, in assessing goodwill for impairment, we consider the reasonableness of the implied control premium based on market capitalizations and recent market transactions.  

We assess other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by comparing the carrying value of an asset with its fair value. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. The determination of fair value involves assumptions, including projected revenues and gross profit levels, as well as consideration of any factors that may indicate potential impairment.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, management completed its annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests and determined there was no impairment. Although the Company believes our estimates and assumptions used in estimating cash flows and determining fair value are reasonable, making material changes to such estimates and assumptions could materially affect such impairment analyses and our financial results, including an impairment charge that could be material.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Long-Lived Assets—Long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such assets. The Company’s definite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of an exclusive distribution agreement and customer lists. When impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value.  

Income Taxes—The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes.  

During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the Company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the Company’s belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the Company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. The Company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made and could materially affect our financial results.  

To the extent that the provision for income taxes would have increased/decreased by 1 percent of income before taxes, consolidated net income would have decreased/increased $3.4 million in fiscal 2010.  

Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets if, after assessment of available positive and negative evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be fully realized.  

Stock-based Compensation—The Company recognizes stock-based compensation based on certain assumptions including inputs within the Black-Scholes Model and estimated forfeitures. These assumptions require subjective judgment and changes in the assumptions can materially affect fair value estimates. Management assesses the assumptions and methodologies used to estimate forfeitures and to calculate estimated fair value of stock-based compensation on a regular basis. Circumstances may change, and additional data may become available over time, which could result in changes to these assumptions and methodologies and thereby materially impact our fair value determination or estimates of forfeitures. If factors change and the Company employs different assumptions, the amount of compensation expense associated with stock-based compensation may differ significantly from what was recorded in the current period.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). The ASC establishes only two levels of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), authoritative and non-authoritative. The ASC became the single source of authoritative, nongovernmental U.S. GAAP, except for rules and interpretive releases of the SEC, which will continue to be sources of authoritative U.S. GAAP for SEC registrants. All other non-grandfathered, non-SEC accounting literature not included in the ASC became non-authoritative upon adoption. The new guidance became effective for the Company’s second quarter of fiscal 2010. Since the new standard did not change U.S. GAAP, there was no change to the Company’s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements other than to update references to U.S. GAAP to be in conformity with the ASC.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance codified into ASC Topic No. 805, “Business Combinations,” which replaced previous business combination accounting guidance. The new guidance revises how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities, any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. The guidance as amended includes recognition  

42  

Table of Contents 

 provisions for assets acquired and liabilities assumed that arise from contingencies and the treatment of contingent purchase price. It also requires additional disclosure requirements intended to enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. The Company adopted the new guidance on April 26, 2009, and applied the provisions prospectively to all new acquisitions closing on or after that date. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance codified into ASC Topic No. 860, “Transfers and Servicing” (ASC 860) which amends the derecognition guidance in former FASB Statement No. 140 and eliminates the exemption from consolidation for qualifying special-purpose entities. Also in June 2009, the FASB issued guidance codified into ASC Topic No. 810, “Consolidation” (ASC 810) which amends the consolidation guidance applicable to variable interest entities. The amendments will significantly affect the overall consolidation analysis under former FASB Interpretation No. 46(R). Both ASC 860 and ASC 810 are effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-13, “Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements” (ASU 2009-13). This update amends ASC Topic 605-25, “Revenue Recognition—Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements” to remove the criterion that entities must use objective and reliable evidence of fair value in separately accounting for deliverables and provides entities with a hierarchy of evidence that must be considered when allocating arrangement consideration. The update also requires entities to allocate arrangement consideration to the separate units of accounting based on the deliverables’ relative selling price. ASU 2009-13 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, unless the election is made to adopt ASU 2009-13 retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2009-13.  

In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-14, “Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements” (ASU 2009-14). This update modifies the scope of the software revenue recognition guidance to exclude (a) non-software components of tangible products and (b) software components of tangible products that are sold, licensed, or leased with tangible products when the software components and non-software components of the tangible product function together to delivery the product’s functionality. ASU 2009-14 is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010, unless the election is made to adopt ASU 2009-14 retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the provisions of ASU 2009-14.  

In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-06, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements” (ASU 2010-06). ASU 2010-06 includes new disclosure requirements related to fair value measurements, including transfers in and out of Levels 1 and 2 and additional information about Level 3 activity. The new disclosures are required in interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures relating to Level 3 activity, which are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

Factors That May Affect Future Operating Results  

Certain information of a non-historical nature contained in Items 1, 2, 3 and 7 of this Form 10-K include forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “expects,” “plans,” “estimates,” “intends” and variations of such words are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. The statements are not guaranties of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties or assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, the Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following important factors,  

43  

Table of Contents 

 among others, could cause the Company’s actual operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. The factors listed under this caption are intended to serve as cautionary statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following information is not intended to limit in any way the characterization of other statements or information under other captions as cautionary statements for such purpose. The order in which such factors appear below should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.  

   •    Economic conditions and volatility in the financial markets could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  

   •    The Company’s ability to meet increased competition from national, regional and local full-service distributors and mail-order distributors of dental, veterinary and rehabilitation products, while maintaining current or improved profit margins.  

   •    The ability of the Company to effectuate modifications to the business models of its three operating units to address changes in the individual markets of those business units.  

   •    The ability of the Company to consolidate the distribution, information services, human resources, financial and other administrative functions of its three business units’ jointly shared services which meet the needs of the individual business units.  

   •    The ability of the Company to manage rapidly changing energy and commodity prices.  

   •    The ability of the Company to retain its base of customers and to increase its market share.  

   •    The ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified and motivated sales personnel.  

   •    The ability of the Company to provide for an orderly management succession, including the ability to recruit skilled personnel for the business, and then identify and train our personnel for their transition into key roles to support the long-term growth of the business.  

   •    The continued ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with key vendors and the ability of the Company to create relationships with additional manufacturers of quality, innovative products.  

   •    Changes in the economics of dentistry affecting dental practice growth and the demand for dental products, including the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology diagnostic and therapeutic products.  

   •    Reduced growth in expenditures for dental services by private dental insurance plans.  

   •    The accuracy of the Company’s assumptions concerning future per capita expenditures for dental services, including assumptions as to population growth and the demand for preventive and specialty dental services such as periodontic, endodontic and orthodontic procedures.  

   •    The rate of growth in demand for infection control products currently used for prevention of the spread of communicable diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis and herpes.  

   •    Changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets.  

   •    The effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation, which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitation and assistive products.  

 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK