Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Our discussion below of our results includes certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide important perspective with respect to underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the performance of the company’s underlying operations and facilitates comparison on a year-over-year basis. Other than free cash flow, any non-GAAP financial measures will be denoted as adjusted measures and exclude the impact from multiemployer pension withdrawal charges, severance charges, integration planning, litigation costs and termination costs in connection with the merger that had been proposed with U.S. Foods, Inc. (US Foods), facility closure charges and US Foods related financing costs. Additional items in fiscal 2014 include a change in estimate of self-insurance, and charges from a contingency accrual. These fiscal 2015 and 2014 items are collectively referred to as (Certain Items). Our US Foods financing costs include the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs when our bridge acquisition facility was terminated upon the issuance of our senior notes in October 2014 and interest expense on those senior notes. In fiscal 2014, costs from executive 

17

retirement plans restructuring were included within Certain Items; however, because these costs in fiscal 2015 are comparable to fiscal 2014, these were not included in the Certain Items definition for the comparison of adjusted results for fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2014. This continues to be presented as a Certain Item in the comparison of adjusted results for fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. More information on the rationale for the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” and "Liquidity and Capital Resources."

Overview

Sysco distributes food and related products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. Our primary operations are located throughout the United States (U.S.), Bahamas, Canada, Costa Rica, Ireland and Mexico and include broadline companies, SYGMA (our chain restaurant distribution subsidiary), specialty produce companies, custom-cut meat companies, hotel supply operations, a company that distributes specialty imported products, a company that distributes to international customers and our Sysco Ventures platform, which includes our suite of technology solutions that help support the business needs of our customers.

We consider our primary market to be the foodservice market in the U.S., Canada and Ireland and estimate that we serve about 17.7% of this approximately $264 billion annual market based on a measurement as of the end of calendar 2014. We use industry data obtained from various sources including Technomic, Inc., the Canadian Restaurant and Foodservices Association and the Irish Food Board to calculate this measurement. According to industry sources, the foodservice, or food-away-from-home, market represents approximately 48% of the total dollars spent on food purchases made at the consumer level in the U.S. as of the end of calendar 2014.

Industry sources estimate the total foodservice market in the U.S. experienced a real sales increase of approximately 0.7% in calendar year 2014 and 1.1% in calendar year 2013. Real sales changes do not include the impact of inflation or deflation.

Highlights

The foodservice industry performance in fiscal 2015 was generally improved. Consumer confidence and the outlook of foodservice operators are at high levels, but have decreased slightly in the summer months of 2015. Fuel prices declined during fiscal 2015 and are currently at lower levels, as compared to recent years, that may support higher consumer spending in the future. Spending at restaurants is generally improved, but customer traffic levels are generally unchanged. Overall, the market environment appears to be modestly improved as compared to the prior two years; however, uncertainty in industry growth remains for fiscal 2016. Amid these conditions, we provided our customers with excellent service, growing our business with both our locally and corporate managed customers and stabilizing our gross margins by successfully implementing several value-added commercial initiatives. We improved our expense management performance as the year progressed, achieving greater success managing expenses in the second half of the year as compared to the first half. The impact of Certain Items contributed to lower earnings in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014, primarily from the costs associated with the merger that had been proposed with US Foods. 

Comparison of results from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2014:

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” for an explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures.

Business Transformation

In fiscal 2015, we completed the three-year financial objectives of our Business Transformation. These financial objectives were largely designed to lower our product cost and lower our operating cost structure. We implemented a category management 

18

program to leverage our scale and develop deeper, more strategic relationships with our suppliers to drive growth and innovation. We also implemented multiple initiatives to lower our operating cost structure including a more streamlined and standard approach to the management of fleet, labor, maintenance, procurement and supplies. Our goal for the project was to generate approximately $550 million to $650 million in annual benefits to be achieved by fiscal 2015. We exceeded our final three-year target for annualized benefits. 

US Foods Merger Termination

We sought to merge with US Foods, a leading foodservice distributor in the U.S. The merger was reviewed by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and in February 2015, the FTC commissioners voted 3 to 2 to authorize the FTC staff to seek a preliminary injunction from the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia preventing the parties from closing the merger. In June 2015, the preliminary injunction was granted. Shortly thereafter, the parties involved agreed to terminate the merger agreement, as a result of which Sysco was obligated to pay $300 million to the owners of US Foods. During the review period with the FTC, Sysco created a divestiture package, comprised of the sale of 11 US Foods facilities to Performance Food Group (PFG), which was contingent on the closing of the merger. This divestiture agreement entitled PFG to receive a $25 million termination fee if the sale of the divestiture package was terminated before July 6, 2015, with each of Sysco and US Foods responsible for one half of the applicable fee. Sysco accrued for termination payments totaling $312.5 million in fiscal 2015 and paid these amounts in fiscal 2016. 

The following tables outline our expenses attributable to our integration planning, litigation and termination costs and financing activities, for the periods presented:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2015 Acquisitions

Mayca Distribuidores

In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we acquired a 50% interest in Mayca Distribuidores (Mayca) of Costa Rica and three other affiliates. Mayca, which has been in business since 1995, is a leading food distributor across Costa Rica. In addition to its distribution business, Mayca has a retail cash-and-carry affiliate with multiple locations, a cold-storage company and a truck-leasing company.

Pacific Star Foodservice

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we acquired a 50% interest in Pacific Star Foodservice, a leading foodservice distributor in Mexico. Pacific Star has operated since 1989 with distribution centers servicing Mexico City, Guadalajara, Monterrey and Tijuana and primarily services chain restaurants, including fast food and casual dining restaurants, casinos, theme parks, movie theaters and hotels throughout Mexico. 

Tannis Foodservice

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we acquired Tannis Trading, Inc., a broadline foodservice distributor in Ottawa, Ontario. Tannis has a 75-year history of providing quality service to customers in Ottawa, Canada's fourth-largest metropolitan market, and the surrounding areas. 

Trends and Strategy

Trends

General economic conditions can affect the frequency of purchases and amounts spent by consumers for food-away-from-home and, in turn, can impact our customers and our sales. Consumer confidence and employment metrics, such as 

19

unemployment rates, have shown some signs of improvement during fiscal 2015; however, consumer spending has been cautious. Fuel prices are currently at lower levels, as compared to recent years, that may support higher consumer spending in the future. Overall, the market environment appears to be modestly improved as compared to the prior two years; however, uncertainty in industry growth remains for fiscal 2016. One industry resource, Technomic, Inc., has projected roughly 2% real growth annually. Real growth excludes the impact of inflation or deflation. 

Our sales and gross profit performance can be influenced by multiple factors including price, volume and product mix. The modest level of growth in the foodservice market has created additional competitive pricing pressures, which is, in turn, negatively impacting sales and gross profits. Case growth with our locally-managed Broadline business is an important contributor to gross profit dollar growth. Our locally-managed customers, including independent restaurant customers, comprise a significant portion of our overall volumes and an even greater percentage of profitability due to the high level of value added services we typically provide to this customer group. Through focused efforts, our locally-managed case volume growth has accelerated over the past three years. Our sales to corporate-managed customers, including chain restaurants and multi-locational restaurants, also comprise a significant portion of our overall volumes. Gross margin on sales to our corporate-managed customers is generally lower than sales to other types of customers due to the higher volumes we sell to these customers. Case growth for our corporate-managed customers remained strong, but competitive pricing pressure has constrained our gross margins. Inflation is a factor that contributes to the level of sales and gross profit growth and can be a factor that contributes to gross margin pressure. Food cost inflation in fiscal 2015 was 3.7%, an increase from 2.1% experienced in fiscal 2014. Our inflation rates were higher in the first half of fiscal 2015, reaching levels of 6.0% at the mid-point of the fiscal year and dropping to 0.1% by the end of the fiscal year. While we cannot predict whether inflation will continue at current levels, periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have a negative effect on us and our customers. High food costs can be difficult to pass on to our customers. In addition, rapid declines in prices can make it challenging to leverage our fixed costs. Our category management initiative has helped us to manage our gross margin performance in response to several of these factors. Lastly, changes in foreign exchange rates are having a larger impact on our sales as compared to recent fiscal years. The strengthening U.S. dollar is depressing our foreign sales as we convert them to U.S. dollars. The impact of foreign exchange rates for fiscal 2015 was a 1.0% year-over-year decrease to sales growth. This impact has typically been in the range of 0% to 0.5%. 

We have experienced higher operating expenses in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014, primarily from increased payroll costs and integration planning, litigation and termination costs in connection with the merger that had been proposed with US Foods. We anticipate a low level of operating expenses attributable to the merger termination in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. Our payroll costs have been influenced by higher pay in our sales organization as a result of higher gross profits, investment in new administrative support capabilities, higher management incentive accruals due to improved performance against our incentive targets and companies acquired within the last 12 months. Sales and gross profit growth partially contributed to an increase in sales pay-related expenses due to increases in sales commissions and bonuses. In addition, we have increased our marketing associate headcount in certain markets in order to invest in future sales growth. 

In October 2014, we secured long-term financing for the proposed merger with US Foods; therefore, interest expense increased in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. The October 2014 senior notes contained mandatory redemption features providing that, if the merger agreement were terminated on or prior to October 8, 2015, we were required to redeem all of the senior notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of the principal of the senior notes plus accrued interest. In June 2015, we terminated the merger agreement and redeemed the senior notes in July 2015 using cash on hand and the proceeds from borrowings under our commercial paper facility. In fiscal 2016, we will recognize several charges from the redemption of these senior notes including $50.0 million in premium fees, $29 million in unamortized debt issuance costs and $18.0 million in unamortized bond discounts each of which had resulted from the issuance of the senior notes in October 2014. We had hedged $1.25 billion of this debt by swapping the fixed rates to floating rates with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost. We terminated these swaps in July 2015 and will recognize a gain of $10.0 million from the fair value adjustment that had been recorded on the underlying debt. Our interest expense on the notes was treated as a Certain Item in fiscal 2015, since the proposed merger had not closed. Similarly, these charges and gain associated with the repayment of these notes will be presented as Certain Items in fiscal 2016. As discussed in Note 9, “Derivative Financial Instruments,” two forward starting swap agreements used to hedge interest rate risk exposure on our October 2014 senior notes issuance were previously terminated and were paid in the amount of $188.8 million. The resulting amounts recorded as a loss are currently amortizing into interest expense at a rate of $2.5 million per quarter for the next 9 years and $1.1 million per quarter thereafter for another 19 years. These amounts will continue to amortize into interest expense as the amount hedged is anticipated to remain within our capital structure. 

Following the termination of the merger agreement, we announced a $3 billion, two-year share repurchase program. We intend to execute the first half of this program through an accelerated repurchase program near the end of first quarter of fiscal 2016. We expect to issue $2.0 billion of debt at approximately the same time and we intend to use a majority of the proceeds to fund these repurchases. These actions will lower our basic and diluted shares outstanding providing an expected earnings per share benefit of approximately $0.03 to $0.04 per share. This estimate includes a 4% to 5% reduction in average shares outstanding, 

20

partially offset by higher interest expense from the new debt issuance. Because the share repurchase will take place near the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2016, we will not realize a full-year's benefit from the reduction in shares in fiscal 2016; however, the full-year benefit will be realized in fiscal 2017. 

Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. We will have a 53-week year ending July 2, 2016 for fiscal 2016, and this additional week will be presented as a Certain Item in fiscal 2016.

 Strategy

We are focused on optimizing our core broadline business in the U.S., Bahamas, Canada, Costa Rica, Ireland and Mexico, while continuing to explore appropriate opportunities to profitably grow our market share and create shareholder value by expanding beyond our core business. Day-to-day, our business decisions are driven by our mission to market and deliver great products to our customers with exceptional service, with the aspirational vision of becoming each of our customers’ most valued and trusted business partner. We have identified five components of our strategy to help us achieve our mission and vision as follows:

•Profoundly enrich the experience of doing business with Sysco: Our primary focus is to help our customers succeed. We believe that by building on our current competitive advantages, we will be able to further differentiate our offering to customers. Our competitive advantages include our sales force of over 7,300 marketing associates; our diversified product base, which includes quality-assured Sysco brand products; the suite of services we provide to our customers such as business reviews and menu analysis; and our multi-regional presence in the U.S. and Canada. In addition, we have a portfolio of businesses spanning broadline, chain restaurant distribution, specialty produce, specialty meat, hotel amenities, specialty import and export which serves our customers’ needs across a wide array of business segments. Through our Sysco Ventures platform, we are developing a suite of technology solutions that help support the administrative needs of our customers. We believe this strategy of enriching the experience of doing business with Sysco will increase customer retention and profitably accelerate sales growth with both existing and new customers.

•Continuously improve productivity in all areas of our business: We continually strive to improve productivity and reduce costs. From implementing an integrated software system to leveraging the power of our end-to-end supply chain, we continue to look for ways to improve our service to our customers and lower costs. 

•Expand our portfolio of products and services by initiating a customer-centric innovation program: We continually explore opportunities to provide new and improved products, technologies and services to our customers. 

•Explore, assess and pursue new businesses and markets: This strategy is focused on identifying opportunities to expand the core business through growth in new international markets and in adjacent areas that complement our core foodservice distribution business. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, joint ventures and sales of assets and businesses.

•Develop and effectively integrate a comprehensive, enterprise-wide talent management process: Our ability to drive results and grow our business is directly linked to having the best talent in the industry. We are committed to the continued enhancement of our talent management programs in terms of how we recruit, select, train and develop our associates throughout Sysco, as well as succession planning. Our ultimate objective is to provide our associates with outstanding opportunities for professional growth and career development. 

In fiscal 2016, to further our strategy, we see opportunities to further accelerate case growth, especially with our locally-managed sales customers through improved product and service differentiation combined with enhanced sales and technology capabilities. We will continue to build on our success in stabilizing gross margin through enhanced product innovation, growing privately-branded product sales and improving pricing analytics and support. There continues to be opportunity to improve our productivity and reduce overhead costs in our supply chain organization and administrative areas of our business. We will continue to invest in our business to fully realize the benefits and improve our return on invested capital. 

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage of sales for the periods indicated:

21

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth the change in the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  Other expense (income), net was income of $33.6 million in fiscal 2015, $12.2 million in fiscal 2014 and $17.5 million in fiscal 2013.

Sales

Sales for fiscal 2015 were 4.7% higher than fiscal 2014. Sales for fiscal 2015 increased as a result of product cost inflation and the corresponding increase in selling prices, case volume growth, and sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 3.7% during fiscal 2015, driven mainly by inflation in the meat, seafood and dairy categories. Case volumes including acquisitions within the last 12 months improved 2.6% in fiscal 2015. Case volumes excluding acquisitions within the last 12 months improved 2.4% in fiscal 2015. Our case volumes represent our results from our Broadline and SYGMA segments combined. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 0.6% in fiscal 2015. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars negatively impacted sales by 1.0% in fiscal 2015. 

Sales for fiscal 2014 were 4.7% higher than fiscal 2013. Sales for fiscal 2014 increased as a result of product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months and case volume growth. Our sales growth in fiscal 2014 was greater with our corporate-managed customers as compared to sales growth with our locally-managed customers. We believe our locally-managed customer sales growth was negatively influenced by less favorable consumer sentiment. Case volumes excluding acquisitions within the last 12 months improved 2.2% in fiscal 2014. Our case volumes represent our results from our Broadline and SYGMA segments combined. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 1.4%% for fiscal 2014. Case volumes including acquisitions within the last 12 months 

22

improved approximately 3.4% in fiscal 2014. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 2.1% during fiscal 2014. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars did not have a significant impact on sales when compared to fiscal 2013. 

Operating Income

Cost of sales primarily includes our product costs, net of vendor consideration, and includes in-bound freight. Operating expenses include the costs of facilities, product handling, delivery, selling and general and administrative activities. Fuel surcharges are reflected within sales and gross profit; fuel costs are reflected within operating expenses.

Fiscal 2015 vs. Fiscal 2014 

The following table sets forth the change in the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in operating income was impacted by an increase of $416.0 million in operating expenses attributable to Certain Items. Adjusted operating income increased due to gross profit dollar growth partially offset by increased expenses from greater case volumes, higher incentive accruals, higher pay for our sales organization as a result of higher gross profit, investment in administrative support capabilities and acquired operations.

Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to increased sales volumes, stronger relative mix of sales to our locally-managed customers and benefits from category management. Gross margin, which is gross profit as a percentage of sales, was 17.57% in fiscal 2015, a decline of 2 basis points from the gross margin of 17.59% in fiscal 2014. Increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market and volatile inflation has pressured our gross margins; however, sales and mix, as well as our category management initiative have helped us stabilize our gross margin performance. Inflation in fiscal 2015 was 3.7%, an increase from 2.1% experienced in fiscal 2014. Our inflation rates were higher in the first half of fiscal 2015, reaching 6.0% at the mid-point of the fiscal year and dropping to 0.1% by the end of the fiscal year. Fiscal 2015 inflation was seen primarily in the meat, dairy and poultry categories. 

Operating expenses for fiscal 2015 increased 11.0%, or $728.2 million, over fiscal 2014. Adjusted operating expenses for fiscal 2015 increased 4.8%, or $312.3 million, over fiscal 2014. These increases in adjusted operating expenses were primarily due to increased expenses from greater case volumes, higher incentive accruals, higher pay for our sales organization as a result of higher gross profit, investment in administrative support capabilities and acquired operations. Partially offsetting this increase, was a reduction in fuel costs and provisions for losses on receivables. Sysco’s operating expenses were impacted by Certain Items, which resulted in an increase in operating expenses of $416 million in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. More information on the rationale of the use of adjusted operating expense and adjusted operating income and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.” 

Operating Expenses Impacting Adjusted Operating Income

Our operating expenses increased in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 partially due to greater case volumes, higher incentive accruals, higher pay for our sales organization as a result of higher gross profit, investment in administrative support capabilities and acquired operations. Pay-related expenses, which represent a significant portion of our operating costs, increased by $349.3 million in fiscal 2015 over fiscal 2014. Factors contributing to the increase in 2015 include increase in expense related to management incentive accruals of $103.5 million, higher pay in our sales organization largely as a result of higher gross profits, higher costs due to investment in new administrative support capabilities and companies acquired in the last 12 months. The 

23

amounts for companies acquired within the last 12 months include our new, consolidated joint ventures, such as our 50% interest in a foodservice company in Costa Rica. Sales and gross profit growth partially contributed to an increase in sales pay-related expenses due to increases in sales commissions and bonuses. In addition, we have increased our marketing associate headcount in certain markets in order to invest in future sales growth. Our expense related to management incentive accruals will vary based on how the company’s performance compares to incentive targets. Our fiscal 2015 financial performance trended more favorably relative to the applicable management incentive targets as compared to fiscal 2014. Consequently, expense is higher period over period. 

Cost per case is an important metric management uses to measure our expense performance. This metric is calculated by dividing the total operating expense of our North American Broadline companies by the number of cases sold. Adjusted cost per case is calculated similarly; however, the operating expense component excludes severance and multiemployer pension withdrawal charges, which are the Certain Items applicable to these companies, divided by the number of cases sold. Our corporate expenses are not included in the cost per cases metrics because the metric is a measure of efficiency in our operations. We seek to grow our sales and either minimize or reduce our costs on a per case basis. Our cost per case and adjusted cost per case increased $0.04 per case in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. The impact of foreign exchange rates lowered our cost per case results by $0.05 per case for fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014, which partially offset the rate of increase occurring primarily from increased pay-related expenses. We are focused on driving improvement across our operations with multiple initiatives that implement best practices, enhance our operating training programs and improve our ability to measure and analyze our performance. More information on the rationale for the use of adjusted operating income and adjusted cost per case and reconciliations can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.” 

Certain Items within Operating Expenses

Sysco’s operating expenses are impacted by Certain Items, which are expenses that can be difficult to predict, can be unanticipated or do not represent core operating expenses. More information on the rationale for the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.” Our significant Certain Items applicable for fiscal 2015 included costs related to integration planning, litigation costs and termination costs in connection with the merger that had been proposed with US Foods. Our significant Certain Items applicable for fiscal 2014 related to costs in connection with the then proposed merger with US Foods, a change in estimate of our self-insurance reserve and a liability for a settlement. 

We incurred costs in connection with the proposed merger with US Foods announced in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 primarily from integration planning, litigation costs and termination costs. These costs totaled $554.7 million in fiscal 2015 and $90.6 million in fiscal 2014. 

Our self-insurance program covers portions of workers’ compensation, general and vehicle liability and property insurance costs. The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers. Liabilities associated with these risks are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, medical cost trends, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, based on the historical trends of increased costs primarily attributable to our workers' compensation claims, we increased our estimates of our self-insurance reserve to a higher point in an estimated range of liability as opposed to our past position at the lower end of the range. This resulted in a charge of $23.8 million in fiscal 2014. 

During the first quarter of fiscal 2014, Sysco was made aware of certain alleged violations of California law relating to its use of remote storage units in the delivery of products. These are commonly referred to as drop sites. As of June 28, 2014, we recorded a liability for a settlement of $20 million. In July 2014, Sysco agreed to a $19.4 million settlement, which includes a payment of $15.0 million in penalties, $3.3 million to fund four California Department of Public Health investigator positions for five years, a $1.0 million donation to food banks across California, and $0.1 million in legal fees. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we eliminated the use of drop sites across Sysco. During fiscal 2014, we introduced mandatory, annual food safety training for all employees across Sysco. We are implementing additional and improved food safety reporting, monitoring and compliance controls across our operations to ensure adherence to our policies.

24

Fiscal 2014 vs. Fiscal 2013 

The following table sets forth the change in the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in operating income was impacted by an increase in $55.1 million in operating expenses attributable to Certain Items. Operating income and adjusted operating income for fiscal 2014 were lower than fiscal 2013 primarily from a lower rate of growth in our gross profit, increased expenses from higher case volumes, some of which is attributable to our acquired operations, increased depreciation and amortization, increased delivery costs and higher corporate expenses. These were partially offset by lower Business Transformation Project expenses and benefits from Business Transformation Project initiatives. As a percentage of sales, we experienced favorable expense management due in part to benefits from our Business Transformation Project initiatives. 

Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to increased sales volumes. The first half of fiscal 2014 contained weaker gross profit growth of 1.2% as compared to the same period in fiscal 2013. Inflation and locally-managed customers case growth was lower in the first half of fiscal 2014. Inflation increased as did local-managed customers case growth in the second half of fiscal 2014. Gross profits grew at a greater rate of 3.4% in the second half of fiscal 2014 as compared to the same time period in fiscal 2013 as result of these factors and in part from our Business Transformation Project initiatives. Gross margin, which is gross profit as a percentage of sales, was 17.59% in fiscal 2014, a decline of 42 basis points from the gross margin of 18.01% in fiscal 2013. This decline in gross margin was partially the result of weak restaurant traffic and increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market. Increased sales to lower margin corporate-managed customers also contributed to the decline in fiscal 2014. Our inflation rates were relatively stable over the first three quarters of fiscal 2014, however it increased in the fourth quarter, all quarters being compared to the past year. Fourth quarter fiscal 2014 inflation was seen primarily in the meat, seafood and dairy categories which represent more than one-third of our annual sales. 

 Operating expenses for fiscal 2014 increased 4.0%, or $255.8 million, over fiscal 2013. Adjusted operating expenses for fiscal 2014 increased 3.2%, or $200.7 million, over fiscal 2013. These increases were primarily due to increased expenses from higher case volumes, some of which is attributable to our acquired operations, increased depreciation and amortization, increased delivery costs and higher corporate expenses. These were partially offset by lower Business Transformation Project expenses and benefits from Business Transformation Project initiatives. We believe favorable expense management, partially from our Business Transformation Project initiatives, helped to keep our operating expense increases from being greater. Sysco’s operating expenses are impacted by certain charges and adjustments, which we refer to as Certain Items, and which resulted in an increase in operating expenses of $55.1 million in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. More information on the rationale of the use of adjusted operating expenses and adjusted operating income and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations".

Operating Expenses Impacting Adjusted Operating Income

Our operating expenses increased in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 partially due to expenses from our acquired operations, expenses attributable to volume growth and increased delivery costs. Pay-related expenses represent a significant portion of our operating costs, contributed to the increase in each of these three categories of expenses and contributed to cost increases in our corporate expenses. Pay-related expenses, excluding labor costs associated with our Business Transformation Project, US Foods integration planning and retirement-related expenses, increased by $74.4 million in fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013. The increase was primarily due to costs from companies acquired in the last 12 months as well as increased delivery and warehouse compensation, partially attributable to case growth. Pay-related costs have also increased at our corporate office as certain employee costs attributed to our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2013 were no longer attributed to the Business Transformation 

25

Project in fiscal 2014 due to a change in allocation methodology. In fiscal 2013, we allocated internal associates based upon estimates of the percentage of time they spent on the project. In fiscal 2014, only associates that were dedicated full time to the project are included in Business Transformation Project costs. These increases were partially offset by reduced sales compensation, information technology compensation and lower provisions for management incentive plans. Benefits from our Business Transformation Project initiatives helped in lowering the rate of growth in these expenses particularly in our sales area for fiscal 2014. During fiscal 2013, we streamlined our sales management organization and modified marketing associate compensation plans. Fiscal 2014 was also impacted by a reduction in pay in the information technology area, resulting from the restructuring of this department in fiscal 2013, which reduced headcount in this area. 

Depreciation and amortization expense, excluding the increase related to our Business Transformation Project described below, increased by $32.8 million in fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013. The increase was primarily related to depreciation on assets that were not placed in service in fiscal 2013 that were in service in fiscal 2014. 

Our retirement-related expenses consist primarily of costs from our Retirement Plan, SERP and our defined contribution plans. As a part of our Business Transformation Project initiatives, our Retirement Plan was substantially frozen and the SERP was completely frozen in fiscal 2013, and our defined contribution plans were enhanced with greater benefits. The net impact in fiscal 2014 of our retirement-related expenses as compared to fiscal 2013 was a decrease of $86.8 million, consisting of a $133.6 million decrease in our net company-sponsored pension costs and approximately $6.2 million for other costs, partially offset by $53.0 million increased costs from our defined contribution plans. 

In addition to the increases in our corporate office expenses from pay-related expenses noted above, other sources of cost increases in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 were due to increasing the capabilities of various departments within our corporate office. A subset of our business technology costs was attributable to our Business Transformation Project. Expenses related to our Business Transformation Project, inclusive of pay-related and software amortization expense, were $277 million in fiscal 2014 and $330.5 million in fiscal 2013, representing a decrease of $53.5 million. The decrease in fiscal 2014 resulted from a reduction in certain employee costs that were attributed to our Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2013 that were no longer attributed to the Business Transformation Project in fiscal 2014 due to a change in allocation methodology. In fiscal 2013, we allocated internal associates based upon estimates of the percentage of time they spent on the project. In fiscal 2014, only associates that were dedicated full time to the project are included in Business Transformation Project costs. Additional contributors to the decreases include an increased level of capitalization on amounts spent for system improvements to enhance stability and scalability and reduced level of spend with consultants as compared to the comparable period in fiscal 2013. The decrease in fiscal 2014 was partially offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization expense related to the Business Transformation Project of $10.7 million in fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013. 

Our cost per case decreased $0.10 per case in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. Our adjusted cost per case calculated on a non-GAAP basis decreased $0.06 in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013, primarily from reduced pay-related expenses from our sales and information technology areas and lower retirement-related expenses, partially offset by increased costs from delivery pay-related expenses. More information on the rationale for the use of adjusted operating expenses and adjusted cost per case and reconciliations can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.” 

Certain Items Within Operating Expenses

Our significant Certain Items applicable for fiscal 2014 included costs in connection with the then proposed merger with US Foods, a change in the estimate of our self-insurance reserve and a liability for a settlement, which were described in greater detail above. Our significant Certain Items applicable for fiscal 2013 related to withdrawal liabilities from multiemployer pension plans, severance charges and costs from restructuring executive retirement plans. 

From time to time, we may voluntarily withdraw from multiemployer pension plans to minimize or limit our future exposure to these plans. In fiscal 2013, we recorded a provision $41.9 million, related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals.

Net Earnings

Net earnings decreased 26.3% in fiscal 2015 from fiscal 2014 due primarily to the changes in operating income discussed above, including the impact of Certain Items, which included increased interest expense of $131.6 million in fiscal 2015 that related to the financing of our proposed merger with US Foods. These amounts include the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs when our bridge acquisition facility was terminated upon the issuance of our senior notes in October 2014 and interest expense on those senior notes. Excluding this interest expense, adjusted interest expense decreased by $0.6 million. Adjusted net earnings increased $66.3 million, or 6.4%, during fiscal 2015. 

26

Net earnings for fiscal 2014 decreased 6.1% compared to fiscal 2013. This decrease was primarily due to changes in operating income discussed above. Adjusted net earnings decreased 1.8% during fiscal 2014.

The effective tax rate of 31.9% for fiscal 2015 was favorably impacted by lower earnings in the U.S. primarily due to costs associated with the termination of the US Foods proposed merger. The lower U.S. earnings resulted in a more significant favorable impact on the effective tax rate from the indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings due to lower foreign statutory tax rates as compared to the domestic tax rate. The additional cost associated with the proposed US Foods merger resulted in lower state taxes. For future periods, we would expect our normalized tax rate to be in the range of 36% to 37%.

The effective tax rate of 36.9% for fiscal 2014 was negatively impacted primarily by two items. First, a non-deductible penalty, that the company incurred, had an unfavorable tax impact of $6.2 million. Second, we recorded net tax expense of $5.2 million for tax and interest related to various federal, foreign and state uncertain tax positions. This negative impact was partially offset by the recording of $5.7 million of tax benefit related to disqualifying dispositions of Sysco stock pursuant to share-based compensation arrangements. Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statutory rates less than our domestic tax rate also had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.

The effective tax rate for fiscal 2013 was 35.9%. Indefinitely reinvested earnings taxed at foreign statutory tax rates less than our domestic tax rate had the impact of reducing the effective tax rate.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2015 were $1.16, a 27.0% decrease from the fiscal 2014 amount of $1.59 per share. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2015 were $1.15, a 27.2% decrease from the fiscal 2014 amount of $1.58 per share. This decrease was primarily the result of the factors discussed above and due to greater shares outstanding during fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. As discussed below in “liquidity and capital resources - financing activities,” we chose not to repurchase any shares in fiscal 2015 due to the proposed US Foods merger. Our shares outstanding have increased primarily as a result of stock option exercises and restricted stock unit grants to employees. This resulted in lowering our earnings per share amounts by $0.02 per share. Adjusted diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2015 were $1.84, an increase of 5.1% from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.75.

Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2014 were $1.59, a 5.4% decrease from the fiscal 2013 amount of $1.68 per share. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2014 were $1.58, a 5.4% decrease from the fiscal 2013 amount of $1.67 per share. This decrease was primarily the result of the factors discussed above. Adjusted diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2014, based on the Certain Items definition for the fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 years, were $1.76, a decrease of 1.1% from the comparable prior year period amount of $1.78. All earnings per share metrics for fiscal 2014 were partially impacted by a greater number of shares outstanding. Sysco experienced a greater number of stock option exercises in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013, which increased the number of shares outstanding.

Non-GAAP Reconciliations and Adjusted Cost per Case 

Sysco’s results of operations are impacted by multiemployer pension withdrawal charges, severance charges, integration planning, litigation costs and termination costs in connection with the merger that had been proposed with US Foods, facility closure charges and US Foods related financing costs. Additional items in fiscal 2014 include a change in estimate of self-insurance, and charges from a contingency accrual. These fiscal 2015 and 2014 items are collectively referred to as (Certain Items). Our US Foods financing costs include the write off of unamortized debt issuance costs when our bridge acquisition facility was terminated upon the issuance of our senior notes in October 2014 and interest expense on those senior notes. In fiscal 2014, costs from executive retirement plans restructuring were included within Certain Items; however, because these costs in fiscal 2015 are comparable to fiscal 2014, these were not included in the Certain Items definition for the comparison of adjusted results for fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2014. This continues to be presented as a Certain Item in the comparison of adjusted results for fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. Management believes that adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, interest expense, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove the impact of these charges provides an important perspective of underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that is indicative of the performance of the company’s underlying operations and facilitates comparison on a year-over-year basis. 

The company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results, as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. These financial measures should not be used as a substitute for GAAP measures in assessing the company’s results of operations for periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. As a result, in the table below, each period presented is adjusted to remove the costs described above. In the table below, individual components of diluted earnings per share may not add to the total presented due 

27

to rounding. Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated using adjusted net earnings divided by diluted shares outstanding. 

Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating expenses, operating income, interest expense, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to adjusted results for these measures for fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The net earnings and diluted earnings per share impacts are shown net of tax. The aggregate tax impact of adjustments for Certain Items was $287.5 million and $55.8 million for fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, respectively. Amounts are calculated by 

28

multiplying the pretax impact of each Certain Item by the statutory rates in effect for each jurisdiction. In FY14, the impact of the charge from a contingency accrual contained an estimated non-deductible portion.

(2) Individual components of diluted earnings per share may not add to the total presented due to rounding. Total diluted earnings per share is calculated using adjusted net earnings for Certain Items divided by diluted shares outstanding.

 (3) NM represents that the percentage change was not meaningful

Set forth below is a reconciliation of actual operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to adjusted results for these measures for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

29

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The net earnings and diluted earnings per share impacts are shown net of tax, except as noted below. The aggregate tax impact of adjustments for Certain Items was $67.2 million and $37.8 million for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, respectively. The fiscal 2014 acquisition-related charge had no tax impact. Amounts are calculated by multiplying the operating income impact of each item by the respective year's effective tax rate with the exception of the impact of the charges from an estimate of a contingency accrual, which had an estimated non-deductible portion.

(2) Individual components of diluted earnings per share may not add to the total presented due to rounding. Total diluted earnings per share is calculated using adjusted net earnings for Certain Items divided by diluted shares outstanding.

 (3) NM represents that the percentage change was not meaningful

Cost per case is an important metric management uses to measure our expense performance. This metric is calculated by taking the total operating expense of our North American Broadline companies, divided by the number of cases sold. Adjusted cost per case is calculated similarly, however the operating expense component excludes charges from, multiemployer pension plans and severance, which are the Certain Items applicable to these companies, divided by the number of cases sold. Our corporate expenses are not included in the cost per cases metrics because the metric is a measure of efficiency in our operations. We seek to grow our sales and either minimize or reduce our costs on a per case basis. Our North American Broadline companies represent approximately 80% of our total sales and 75% of our total operating expenses prior to corporate expenses. Sysco considers adjusted cost per case to be a measure that provides useful information to management and investors about Sysco's expense management. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. 

In the table that follows, the change in adjusted cost per case is reconciled to cost per case for the periods presented.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) For all periods, the impact of Certain Items excludes charges from multiemployer pension plans and severance. For the fiscal 2015 comparison to fiscal 2014, our Certain Items charges were not significant enough to contribute a different adjusted cost per case result from the reported increase in cost per case. For the fiscal 2014 comparison to fiscal 2013, the majority of the impact relates to multiemployer pension plans in the amount of $0.04 per case attributable to charges taken in fiscal 2014 that did not recur at the same magnitude in fiscal 2013, and the remainder relates to severance charges.

30

Segment Results

We have aggregated our operating companies into two reporting segments, Broadline and SYGMA, as defined in the accounting literature related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise. The accounting policies for the segments are the same as those disclosed by Sysco within the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data within Part II Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Intersegment sales represent specialty produce and imported specialty products distributed by the Broadline and SYGMA operating companies. 

Management evaluates the performance of each of our operating segments based on its respective operating income results. Corporate expenses and adjustments generally include all expenses of the corporate office and Sysco’s shared service center. These also include all share-based compensation costs and integration planning, litigation costs and termination costs in connection with the merger that had been proposed US Foods. While a segment’s operating income may be impacted in the short-term by increases or decreases in gross profits, expenses, or a combination thereof, over the long-term each business segment is expected to increase its operating income at a greater rate than sales growth. This is consistent with our long-term goal of leveraging earnings growth at a greater rate than sales growth. 

The following table sets forth the operating income of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage of each segment’s sales for each period reported and should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth the change in the selected financial data of each of our reportable segments and the other segment expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year and should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)  SYGMA had operating income of $20.5 million in fiscal 2015, $38.0 million in fiscal 2014 and $52.0 million in fiscal 2013.

31

The following table sets forth sales and operating income of each of our reportable segments, the other segment, and intersegment sales, expressed as a percentage of aggregate segment sales, including intersegment sales, and operating income, respectively. For purposes of this statistical table, operating income of our segments excludes corporate expenses and adjustments of $1.5 billion in fiscal 2015, $1.0 billion in fiscal 2014 and $894.3 million in fiscal 2013 that are not charged to our segments. This information should be read in conjunction with Note 21, “Business Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Broadline Segment

The Broadline reportable segment is an aggregation of the company’s U.S.and International Broadline segments located in Bahamas, Canada, Costa Rica and Ireland. Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to both traditional and chain restaurant customers, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and other venues where foodservice products are served. Broadline operations have significantly higher operating margins than the rest of Sysco’s operations. In fiscal 2015, the Broadline operating results represented approximately 79.4% of Sysco’s overall sales and 94.3% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses.

There are several factors that contribute to these higher operating results as compared to the SYGMA and Other operating segments. We have invested substantial amounts in assets, operating methods, technology and management expertise in this segment. The breadth of its sales force, geographic reach of its distribution area and its purchasing power allow us to benefit from this segment’s earnings.

Sales

Sales for fiscal 2015 were 5.0% higher than fiscal 2014. Sales for fiscal 2015 increased as a result of product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices, case volume growth, and sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months. Our case volume growth in fiscal 2015 with our locally-managed customers was strong and corporate-managed customer volumes increased as well. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 0.5% in fiscal 2015. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 3.8% during fiscal 2015, driven mainly by inflation in the meat, seafood and dairy categories. The exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars negatively impacted sales by 1.3% in fiscal 2015. 

Sales for fiscal 2014 were 4.3% higher than fiscal 2013. Sales for fiscal 2014 increased as a result of sales from acquisitions that occurred within the last 12 months, case volume growth and product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices. Our sales growth in fiscal 2014 was greater with our corporate-managed customers as compared to sales growth with our locally-managed customers. The disparity in the growth rate between these customer types moderated in the last half of fiscal 2014 with locally-managed sales growth trending at similar rates as corporate-managed customers. Sales from acquisitions within the last 12 months favorably impacted sales by 1.7% in fiscal 2014. Changes in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, were estimated as inflation of 2.0% during fiscal 2014, driven mainly by inflation in the meat, seafood and dairy categories. The exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars negatively impacted sales by 0.8% in fiscal 2014. 

Operating Income

Fiscal 2015 vs. Fiscal 2014 

Operating income increased by 5.8% in fiscal 2015 over fiscal 2014. We experienced growth in our gross profits due to increased sales volumes, stronger relative mix of sales for our locally-managed customers and benefits from our category 

32

management initiative. Operating expenses increased from greater case volumes, higher incentive accruals, higher pay for our sales organization as a result of higher gross profit, investment in administrative support capabilities and acquired operations. 

Gross profits increased in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 and gross margins were steady. Increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market and volatile inflation has pressured our gross margins; however, sales and mix, as well as our category management initiative, have helped us stabilize our gross margin performance. Our inflation rates were higher in the first half of fiscal 2015, reaching levels of 6% at the mid-point of the fiscal year and dropping to minimal amounts by the end of the fiscal year. Fiscal 2015 inflation was seen primarily in the meat, dairy and poultry categories. 

Operating expenses for the Broadline segment increased in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. The increase in expenses for fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 was driven largely by higher sales costs, increased expense related to management incentive accruals and costs from companies acquired within the last 12 months. Partially offsetting these increases were decreases in fuel costs. Sales and gross profit growth partially contributed to an increase in sales pay-related expenses due to increases in sales commissions and bonuses. In addition, we have increased our marketing associate headcount in certain markets in order to invest in future sales growth. Our cost per case and adjusted cost per case increased $0.04 per case in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. The impact of foreign exchange rates lowered our cost per case results by $0.05 per case for fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014, which partially offset the rate of increase occurring primarily from increased pay-related expenses partially offset by lower fuel costs. 

Fiscal 2014 vs. Fiscal 2013 

Operating income increased by 2.8% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013. This increase was driven by operating expenses increasing more than gross profit dollars. 

Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2014 primarily due to increased sales; however, gross profit dollars increased at a lower rate than sales. This decline in gross margin was partially the result of increased inflation, increased growth from corporate-managed customers and, in part, from our Business Transformation Project Initiative. Increased competition resulting from a slow-growth market also contributed to the decline in gross margins. Our Broadline segment experienced product cost inflation in fiscal 2014. Based on our product sales mix during fiscal 2014, we were most impacted by higher levels of inflation in the poultry and meat product categories. 

Operating expenses for the Broadline segment increased in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013. The expense increases in fiscal 2014 were driven largely by charges related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals, pay-related expenses including severance costs, depreciation and amortization expense and fuel. The increase in pay-related expenses was primarily due to increased delivery and warehouse compensation, partially attributable to case growth, and added costs from companies acquired in the last 12 months. Delivery and warehouse compensation includes activity-based pay that will increase when our case volumes increase. Additionally, pay rates have been higher particularly in geographies where oil and gas exploration occurs. These increases were partially offset by reduced sales and information technology pay-related expenses. Our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to the increase in operating expenses. Depreciation and amortization increased primarily from assets that were not placed in service in fiscal 2013 that were in service in fiscal 2014, primarily from new facilities, property from new acquisitions and expansions. 

In fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013, we recorded provisions of $1.5 million and $41.9 million, respectively, related to multiemployer pension plan withdrawals. 

Our fiscal 2014 cost per case, excluding charges related to withdrawals from multiemployer pension plans, decreased as compared to fiscal 2013 primarily from reduced pay-related expenses from our sales and information technology areas, partially offset by increased costs from delivery and warehouse pay-related expenses, increased retirement-related expenses and fuel increases.

SYGMA Segment

SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products, a wide variety of non-food products and customer-specific proprietary products to certain chain restaurant customer locations. SYGMA operations have traditionally had lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco’s other segments. This segment of the foodservice industry has generally been characterized by lower overall operating margins as the volume that these customers command allows them to negotiate for reduced margins. These operations service chain restaurants through contractual agreements that are typically structured on a fee per case delivered basis. 

33

Sales

Sales were 1.6% lower in fiscal 2015 than in fiscal 2014. The decrease was primarily due to the resignation of several unprofitable accounts, lost customers and lower fuel surcharges. Partially offsetting these decreases were increases from product cost inflation (and the resulting increase in selling prices) and case volume increases from existing customers. We expect similar sales results in fiscal 2016 due to the continued impact of these resignations, as well as competitive pricing pressures. SYGMA intends to add business with new and existing customers to profitably grow this segment's results.

Sales were 6.9% greater in fiscal 2014 than in fiscal 2013. The increase was primarily due to new customers. Other contributors to the increase were product cost inflation and the resulting increase in selling prices and case volume increases from existing customers. 

Operating Income

Operating income decreased by 46.1% in fiscal 2015 from fiscal 2014. Gross profit dollars decreased 3.3% while operating expenses increased 7.3% in fiscal 2015 over fiscal 2014. Gross profit dollar growth was lower primarily due to reduced fuel surcharges and lower margins as a result of the competitive market environment. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2015 largely due to increased warehouse and delivery costs, including pay-related expenses, partially resulting from efforts to increase driver retention and manage warehouse employee shortages. Operating income is expected to improve in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015 due to improved profitability from resigning less profitable customers and improved productivity.

Operating income decreased by26.9% in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013. Gross profit dollars increased 2.8% while operating expenses increased 6.5% in fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013. These gross profit results largely reflect the sluggish sales environment that existed at that time. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2014 largely due to increased delivery costs including pay-related expenses. Our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013 and contributed to the increase in pay-related expense.

Other Segment

“Other” financial information is attributable to our other operating segments, including our specialty produce, our custom-cut meat operations, lodging industry products segments, a company that distributes specialty imported products, a company that distributes to international customers and our Sysco Ventures platform, our suite of technology solutions that help support the business needs of our customers. These operating segments are discussed on an aggregate basis as they do not represent reportable segments under segment accounting literature.

On an aggregate basis, our “Other” segment has had a lower operating income as a percentage of sales than Sysco’s Broadline segment. Sysco has acquired some of the operating companies within this segment in recent years. These operations generally operate in a niche within the foodservice industry except for our lodging industry supply company. Each individual operation is also generally smaller in sales and scope than an average Broadline operation and each of these operating segments is considerably smaller in sales and overall scope than the Broadline segment. In fiscal 2015, in the aggregate, the “Other” segment represented approximately 10.8% of Sysco’s overall sales and 5.0% of the aggregate operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses and adjustments. 

Operating income decreased 4.6%, or $6.5 million, in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. The decrease in operating income was largely due to startup costs from our Iowa Premium Beef operations, partially offset by increased earnings from our specialty produce and custom-cut meat segments. 

Operating income decreased 2.2% for fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013. The decrease in operating income was largely due to startup costs from our Sysco Ventures operations, partially offset by increased earnings from our specialty produce and lodging industry products segments. Additionally, retirement-related expenses were greater for these companies for fiscal 2014 as our enhanced defined contribution plan became effective January 1, 2013, and some of these operations were not a part of prior benefit plans. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

34

Highlights

Comparisons of the cash flows from fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2014:

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sources and Uses of Cash

Sysco’s strategic objectives include continuous investment in our business; these investments are funded by a combination of cash from operations and access to capital from financial markets. Our operations historically have produced significant cash flow. Cash generated from operations is generally allocated to:

•working capital requirements;

•investments in facilities, systems, fleet, other equipment and technology;

•return of capital to shareholders, including cash dividends and share repurchases;

•acquisitions compatible with our overall growth strategy;

•contributions to our various retirement plans; and

•debt repayments.

Any remaining cash generated from operations may be invested in high-quality, short-term instruments. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses, and our overall capital structure. Any transactions resulting from these evaluations may materially impact our liquidity, borrowing capacity, leverage ratios and capital availability.

We continue to generate substantial cash flows from operations and remain in a strong financial position; however, our liquidity and capital resources can be influenced by economic trends and conditions that impact our results of operations. We believe our mechanisms to manage working capital, such as credit monitoring, optimizing inventory levels and maximizing payment terms with vendors, and our mechanisms to manage the items impacting our gross profits have been sufficient to limit a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. We believe these mechanisms will continue to prevent a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. As of June 27, 2015, we had $5.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents, approximately 4% of which was held by our international subsidiaries generated from our earnings of international operations. This percentage is lower than previous years because of proceeds from our senior notes offering, which we borrowed to fund the then proposed US Foods merger. Since the senior notes were redeemed subsequent to June 27, 2015, due to the termination of the merger agreement, we would expect this percentage to return to historical levels, such as 32%, which was the percentage as of June 28, 2014. If these earnings were transferred among countries or repatriated to the U.S., such amounts may be subject to additional tax obligations; however, we do not currently anticipate the need to repatriate this cash.

We believe the following sources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months, while maintaining sufficient liquidity for normal operating purposes:

•our cash flows from operations;

•the availability of additional capital under our existing commercial paper programs, supported by our revolving credit facility and bank line of credit; and

•our ability to access capital from financial markets, including issuances of debt securities, either privately or under a shelf registration statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in the first quarter of fiscal 2016.

Due to our strong financial position, we believe that we will continue to be able to effectively access the commercial paper market and long-term capital markets, if necessary. 

35

Cash Flows

Operating Activities

Fiscal 2015 vs. Fiscal 2014 

We generated $1.6 billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2015, as compared to $1.5 billion in fiscal 2014. This increase of $62.7 million, or 4.2%, was largely attributable to favorable comparisons on accrued expenses, partially offset by unfavorable comparisons on the cash impact of our Certain Items that increased $148.9 million year-over-year. Other unfavorable comparisons were a decrease in other long-term liabilities and the impact of timing for pension contributions, as well as increased working capital needs. 

Included in the change in accrued expenses was a favorable comparison of incentive accruals due to better performance against incentive targets in fiscal 2015. Our Certain Items increased primarily from integration planning, litigation and termination costs in connection with the merger that had been proposed with US Foods. Our merger termination fees of $312.5 million, payable to US Foods and PFG, were accrued as of June 27, 2015, and were paid in the July 2015.

Included in the change in other long-term liabilities was a negative comparison on pension expense and contributions, which contributed $90.4 million to the unfavorable comparison on cash flow from operations for fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2014. Pension income was $15.3 million and pension contributions were $75.1 million, including a $50 million contribution to our Retirement Plan in fiscal 2015, which resulted in a decrease to other long-term liabilities. Pension expense was $4.8 million and pension contributions were $24.8 million in fiscal 2014, which resulted in a decrease to other long-term liabilities. 

Changes in working capital, specifically accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable, had a net unfavorable comparison of $25.0 million on the comparison of cash flow from operations for fiscal 2015 to fiscal 2014. There was a favorable comparison on inventory and accounts receivable, which was partially offset by unfavorable comparisons on accounts payable. Accounts receivable increased in both periods as a result of increases in sales; however, the level of increase in fiscal 2015 was less than fiscal 2014 due to improved collection efforts. Inventory increased in both periods as a result of increases in sales. However, inventory turnover improved in fiscal 2015, as compared to fiscal 2014. Accounts payable increased in both periods as a result of increases in sales. The year-over-year impact of the change in accounts payable is unfavorable to cash flow from operations due to working capital improvements that were at a greater magnitude in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2015. 

Fiscal 2014 vs. Fiscal 2013 

We generated $1.49 billion in cash flow from operations in fiscal 2014, as compared to $1.51 billion in fiscal 2013. The decrease of $18.8 million or 1.2%, was largely attributable to a negative comparison on pension expense and contributions, reduced net earnings, a negative comparison on multiemployer pension withdrawal provisions and payments and an unfavorable comparison on prepaid expenses. Partially offsetting these unfavorable comparisons was a favorable comparison on working capital, several significant accruals in fiscal 2014 and an increase in non-cash depreciation and amortization. 

 Included in the change in other long-term liabilities was a negative comparison on pension expense and contributions, which contributed $65 million to the unfavorable comparison on cash flow from operations for fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. Pension expense was $4.8 million and pension contributions were $24.8 million in fiscal 2014, which resulted in a decrease to other long-term liabilities. Pension expense was $138.3 million and pension contributions were $93.6 million in fiscal 2013, which resulted in an increase to other long-term liabilities. 

 Included in the change in accrued expenses was a negative comparison of $49.4 million on multiemployer withdrawal provisions and payments. Fiscal 2014 included a provision for multiemployer pension withdrawal of $1.5 million and payments of $40.8 million, which resulted in a decrease to accrued expenses. Fiscal 2013 included a provision for multiemployer pension withdrawal of $41.9 million and payments of $31.8 million, which resulted in an increase to accrued expenses. Partially offsetting the unfavorable impact of the multiemployer accrual comparison were several significant accruals unique to fiscal 2014, which contributed $48.5 million to cash flow from operations for fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. 

 Changes in working capital, specifically accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable, had a favorable comparison of $129.7 million on the comparison of cash flow from operations for fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. There was a favorable comparison on accounts payable, which was partially offset by unfavorable comparisons on accounts receivable and inventory. Accounts receivable increased in both periods as a result of increases in sales. Our sales growth in fiscal 2014 was greater with our corporate-managed customers and payment terms for these types of customers are traditionally longer than average. This mix of longer-term 

36

receivables contributed to the unfavorable comparison on cash flow from fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. Inventory increased in both periods as a result of increases in sales. However, inventory turnover improved in fiscal 2014, as compared to a deterioration of inventory turnover in fiscal 2013, due to working capital improvements in inventory. Fiscal 2014 also included an increase in inventory in transit, which offset the favorable comparison due to working capital improvements, resulting in an overall unfavorable comparison on cash flow from fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2013. Accounts payable increased in both periods as a result of increases in sales. The year-over-year impact of the change in accounts payable is favorable to cash flow from operations due to working capital improvements in accounts payable as well as an increase in fiscal 2014 in accounts payable related to inventory in transit. 

Investing Activities

Fiscal 2015 capital expenditures included:

•fleet replacements;

•investments in technology.

•replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Arizona, California, Iowa and Virginia; and

•construction of fold-out facilities in Ireland.

Fiscal 2014 capital expenditures included:

•fleet replacements;

•construction of fold-out facilities in Ontario, Canada and Ireland;

•replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Arizona, California, Pennsylvania and Virginia; and

•investments in technology.

Fiscal 2013 capital expenditures included:

•fleet replacements;

•construction of a fold-out facility in southern California; 

•replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Georgia; British Columbia, Canada; Massachusetts and South Carolina; and

•investments in technology.

The level of capital expenditures in fiscal 2015 was mostly consistent with fiscal 2014, representing a small increase of $19.6 million. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2014 increased by $11.3 million from fiscal 2013. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2014 and 2013 for our Business Transformation Project were $33.4 million and $20.0 million, respectively. 

We estimate our capital expenditures, net of proceeds from sales of assets, in fiscal 2016 should be in the range of $550 million to $600 million. Fiscal 2016 expenditures will include facility, fleet and other equipment replacements and expansions; new facility construction, including fold-out facilities; and investments in technology.

During fiscal 2015, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $115.9 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2015 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2015, we acquired for cash a broadline company in Ontario, Canada; a joint venture interest in a foodservice distribution company in Mexico; a joint venture interest in a foodservice distribution company in Costa Rica and a specialty seafood company in New Jersey. 

During fiscal 2014, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $79.3 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2014 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2014, we acquired for cash a specialty meat company in Maryland and broadline operations in Missouri, Ohio and Philadelphia. 

During fiscal 2013, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $397.4 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2013 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. During fiscal 2013, we acquired for cash broadline operations in Bahamas, California, Ohio, Quebec, Canada, Northern Ireland; specialty seafood companies in Ontario, Canada, Florida and Houston; specialty produce in Ireland and our Sysco Ventures startup in California. 

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow represents net cash provided from operating activities less purchases of plant and equipment plus proceeds from sales of plant and equipment. Sysco considers free cash flow to be a non-GAAP liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases and sales of buildings, fleet, equipment and technology, which may potentially be used to pay for, among other things, strategic uses of cash 

37

including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions. However, free cash flow may not be available for discretionary expenditures, as it may be necessary that we use it to make mandatory debt service or other payments. As a result of increased cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by increased capital spending and decreased proceeds from sales of plant and equipment, free cash flow for fiscal 2015 increased 4.2%, or $41.7 million, to $1.0 billion as compared to fiscal 2014. Increased cash provided by operating activities, partially offset by increased capital spending, resulted in free cash flow for fiscal 2014 decreasing 2.0%, or $19.9 million, to $995.4 million as compared to fiscal 2013. 

Free cash flow should not be used as a substitute in assessing the company’s liquidity for the periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. In the table that follows, free cash flow for each period presented is reconciled to net cash provided by operating activities. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financing Activities

Equity Transactions

Proceeds from exercises of share-based compensation awards were $240.2 million in fiscal 2015, $255.6 million in fiscal 2014 and $628.7 million in fiscal 2013. The level of proceeds in each year is directly related to the number of options exercised in each year. The level of option exercises, and thus proceeds, will vary from period to period and is largely dependent on movements in our stock price.

We traditionally have engaged in Board-approved share repurchase programs. No shares were acquired in fiscal 2015 due to the proposed US Foods merger. The number of shares acquired and their cost during 2014 and 2013 were 10,059,000 shares for $332.4 million in fiscal 2014 and 21,672,403 shares for $721.6 million in fiscal 2013. No additional shares were repurchased through August 13, 2015, resulting in a remaining authorization by our Board of Directors to repurchase up to 11,655,197 shares from a repurchase program that expired on August 23, 2015. In June 2015, our Board of Directors approved a repurchase program to repurchase from time to time in the open market, through an accelerated share repurchase program or through privately negotiated transactions, shares of the company's common stock in an amount not to exceed $3.0 billion during the two year period ending July 1, 2017, including $1.5 billion through a planned accelerated share repurchase in fiscal 2016, in addition to amounts normally repurchased to offset benefit plan and stock option dilution. In addition to the share repurchase program approved in June, in August 2015, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 20,000,000 shares for an aggregate purchase price not to exceed $800 million. The authorization expires on August 21, 2017. Beyond our $3.0 billion share repurchase program approved in June 2015, our share repurchase strategy is to purchase enough shares to keep our average shares outstanding relatively constant over time. The number of shares we repurchase in fiscal 2016 will be dependent on many factors, including the level of future stock option exercises as well as competing uses for available cash.

We have made dividend payments to our shareholders in each fiscal year since our company’s inception over 40 years ago. We target a dividend payout of 40% to 50% of net earnings. We paid in excess of that range in fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014 primarily due to increased expenses from our Certain Items. Dividends paid were $695.3 million, or $1.17 per share, in fiscal 2015, $667.2 million, or $1.14 per share, in fiscal 2014 and $648.3 million, or $1.10 per share, in fiscal 2013. In May 2015, we declared our regular quarterly dividend for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 of $0.30 per share, which was paid in July 2015.

38

In November 2000, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement covering 30,000,000 shares of common stock to be offered from time to time in connection with acquisitions. As of August 13, 2015, 29,477,835 shares remained available for issuance under this registration statement.

Debt Activity and Borrowing Availability

Our debt activity, including issuances and repayments, and our borrowing availability is described in Note 11, “Debt and Other Financing Arrangements.” Our outstanding borrowings at June 27, 2015, and repayment activity since the close of fiscal 2015, are disclosed within that note. Updated amounts through August 13, 2015, include:

•$744.0 million outstanding from our commercial paper program

•No amounts outstanding from the credit facility supporting the company’s U.S. and Canadian commercial paper programs. 

Our aggregate commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings had a weighted average interest rate of 0.54%, for fiscal 2015 and 0.16% for each of fiscal 2014 and 2013 respectively.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2016, we intend to file with the SEC an automatically effective well-known seasoned issuer shelf registration statement for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities and guarantees of debt securities that may be issued from time to time.

Other Considerations

Multiemployer Plans

Our exposure to multiemployer defined benefit plans is discussed in Note 15, “Multiemployer Employee Benefit Plans,” including our estimate of our share of withdrawal liability for these plans. An update of this amount through August 13, 2015, based on the latest available information, is unchanged from the amount disclosed in Note 15. 

Potential Contingencies Impacting Liquidity

Certain tax jurisdictions require partial to full payment on audit assessments or the posting of letters of credit in order to proceed to the appeals process. Sysco has posted approximately $90 million in letters of credit, representing a partial payment of the audit assessments, in order to appeal the Canadian Revenue Authority assessments of transfer pricing adjustments relating to our cross border procurement activities through our former purchasing cooperative on our fiscal 2004 through fiscal 2009 fiscal years. We are protesting these adjustments through appeals. We could have to pay cash or post additional letters of credit of as much as $16.0 million, in order to appeal these assessments.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.

39

Contractual Obligations  

The following table sets forth, as of June 27, 2015, certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make contractual future payments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The estimate of the timing of future payments under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan involves the use of certain assumptions, including retirement ages and payout periods. 

(2) The estimated contributions through fiscal 2024 to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements based on actuarial assumptions include the extension of funding relief included in the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014.

(3) Includes estimated contributions to the unfunded SERP and other postretirement benefit plans made in amounts needed to fund benefit payments for vested participants in these plans through fiscal 2025, based on actuarial assumptions.

(4) Unrecognized tax benefits relate to uncertain tax positions recorded under accounting standards related to uncertain tax positions. As of June 27, 2015, we had a liability of $37.5 million for unrecognized tax benefits for all tax jurisdictions and $33.4 million for related interest that could result in cash payment. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of non-current payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time. Accordingly, the related non-current balances have not been reflected in the "Payments Due by Period" section of the table. 

(5) Includes payments on floating rate debt based on rates as of June 27, 2015, assuming amount remains unchanged until maturity, and payments on fixed rate debt based on maturity dates. The impact of our outstanding fixed-to-floating interest rate swap on the fixed rate debt interest payments is included as well based on the floating rates in effect as of June 27, 2015.

(6) For purposes of this table, purchase obligations include agreements for purchases of product in the normal course of business, for which all significant terms have been confirmed, including minimum quantities resulting from our category management initiative. As we progress with this initiative, our purchase obligations are increasing. Such amounts included in the table above are based on estimates. Purchase obligations also includes amounts committed with various third party service providers to provide information technology services for period up to fiscal 2019 (See discussion under Note 20, “Commitments and Contingencies”, to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8) and fixed fuel purchase commitments. Purchase obligations exclude full requirements electricity contracts where no stated minimum purchase volume is required.

Certain acquisitions involve contingent consideration, typically payable only in the event that certain operating results are attained or certain outstanding contingencies are resolved. Aggregate contingent consideration amounts outstanding as of June 27, 2015 were $39 million. This amount is not included in the table above.

40

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses in the accompanying financial statements. Significant accounting policies employed by Sysco are presented in the notes to the financial statements.

Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial position and results of operations. These policies require our most subjective or complex judgments, often employing the use of estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We have reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors the development and selection of the critical accounting policies and estimates and this related disclosure. Our most critical accounting policies and estimates pertain to the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable, self-insurance programs, company-sponsored pension plans, income taxes, vendor consideration, goodwill and intangible assets and share-based compensation.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

We evaluate the collectability of accounts receivable and determine the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts based on a combination of factors. We utilize specific criteria to determine uncollectible receivables to be written off, including whether a customer has filed for or has been placed in bankruptcy, has had accounts referred to outside parties for collection or has had accounts past due over specified periods. In these instances, a specific allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded to reduce the receivable to the net amount reasonably expected to be collected. Allowances are recorded for all other receivables based on an analysis of historical trends of write-offs and recoveries. Our judgment is required as to the impact of certain of these items and other factors as to ultimate realization of our accounts receivable. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, additional allowances may be required.

Self-Insurance Program

We maintain a self-insurance program covering portions of workers’ compensation, general liability and vehicle liability costs. The amounts in excess of the self-insured levels are fully insured by third party insurers. We also maintain a fully self-insured group medical program. Liabilities associated with these risks are estimated in part by considering historical claims experience, medical cost trends, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Projections of future loss expenses are inherently uncertain because of the random nature of insurance claims occurrences and could be significantly affected if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends. In an attempt to mitigate the risks of workers’ compensation, vehicle and general liability claims, safety procedures and awareness programs have been implemented.

Company-Sponsored Pension Plans

Amounts related to defined benefit plans recognized in the financial statements are determined on an actuarial basis. Two of the more critical assumptions in the actuarial calculations are the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits and the expected rate of return on plan assets. Our Retirement Plan was frozen in fiscal 2013 and is only open to a small number of employees. Our SERP was frozen in fiscal 2013. Due to these plan freezes, our assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation is no longer a critical assumption. 

For guidance in determining the discount rates, we calculate the implied rate of return on a hypothetical portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximates the estimated payouts of the pension plan. The discount rate assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2015 net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the June 28, 2014 measurement date, decreased 58 basis points to 4.74%. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2015 net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the June 28, 2014 measurement date, decreased 35 basis points to 4.59%. The combined effect of these discount rate changes increased our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2015 by an estimated $7 million. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2016 net pension costs for the Retirement Plan, which was determined as of the June 27, 2015 measurement date, increased 10 basis points to 4.84%. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2016 net pension costs for the SERP, which was determined as of the June 27, 2015 measurement date, increased 4 basis points to 4.63%. The combined effect of these discount rate changes will decrease our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2016 by an estimated $1 million. A 100 basis point increase (or decrease) in the discount rates for fiscal 2015 would decrease (or increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension cost by approximately $11 million. Now that Sysco’s pension plans are frozen, net company-sponsored pension cost is not as sensitive to discount rate changes as compared to when these plans were active. 

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan was 7.75% for fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014. The expectations of future returns are derived from a mathematical asset model that incorporates assumptions as to the various asset 

41

class returns, reflecting a combination of historical performance analysis and the forward-looking views of the financial markets regarding the yield on bonds, historical returns of the major stock markets and returns on alternative investments. Although not determinative of future returns, the effective annual rate of return on plan assets, developed using geometric/compound averaging, was approximately 8.3%, 6.3%, 11.1%, and 7.7%, over the 20-year, 10-year, 5-year and 1-year periods ended December 31, 2014, respectively. In addition, in seven of the last 15 years, the actual return on plan assets has exceeded 10%. The rate of return assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.

The expected return on plan assets impacts the recorded amount of net pension costs. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the Retirement Plan is 7.25% for fiscal 2016. A 100 basis point increase (decrease) in the assumed rate of return for fiscal 2015 would decrease (increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension costs for fiscal 2015 by approximately $30 million.

Pension accounting standards require the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans in the statement of financial position, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of June 27, 2015 was a charge, net of tax, of $705.3 million. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of June 28, 2014 was a charge, net of tax, of $686.0 million.

We made cash contributions to our company-sponsored pension plans of $75.1 million and $24.8 million in fiscal years 2015 and 2014, respectively. Our contributions in fiscal 2015 include a $50.0 million contribution to the Retirement Plan that was voluntary, as there was no minimum required contribution for the calendar 2014 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements. There was no contribution to the Retirement Plan in fiscal 2014, as there was no minimum required contribution for the calendar 2013 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements. There are no required contributions to the Retirement Plan to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements in fiscal 2016. The estimated fiscal 2016 contributions to fund benefit payments for the SERP plan are approximately $28 million.

Income Taxes

The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state, as well as foreign jurisdictions. Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items, accruals or adjustments of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits or valuation allowances, and our change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate.

Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various filing positions. We believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable; however, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or pay amounts in excess of recorded liabilities, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement generally would require use of our cash and may result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. A favorable tax settlement may be recognized as a reduction in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution.

Vendor Consideration

We recognize consideration received from vendors when the services performed in connection with the monies received are completed and when the related product has been sold by Sysco. There are several types of cash consideration received from vendors. In many instances, the vendor consideration is in the form of a specified amount per case or per pound. In these instances, we will recognize the vendor consideration as a reduction of cost of sales when the product is sold. In some instances, vendor consideration is received upon receipt of inventory in our distribution facilities. We calculate the amount needed to reduce our inventory based on inventory turns until the product is sold. Our inventory turnover is usually less than one month; therefore, amounts deferred against inventory do not require long-term estimation. In the situations where the vendor consideration is not related directly to specific product purchases, we will recognize these as a reduction of cost of sales when the earnings process is complete, the related service is performed and the amounts realized. Historically, adjustments to our estimates related to vendor consideration have not been significant. 

42

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

Goodwill and intangible assets represent the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of tangible net assets acquired. Certain assumptions and estimates are employed in determining the fair value of assets acquired, including goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as determining the allocation of goodwill to the appropriate reporting unit.

In addition, annually in our fourth quarter or more frequently as needed, we assess the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles by determining whether the fair values of the applicable reporting units exceed the carrying values of these assets. The reporting units used in assessing goodwill impairment are our 13 operating segments as described in Note 21, “Business Segment Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The components within each of our 13 operating segments have similar economic characteristics and therefore are aggregated into 13 reporting units. 

We arrive at our estimates of fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow and earnings multiple models. The results from each of these models are then weighted and combined into a single estimate of fair value for each of our 13 operating segments. We primarily use a 60% weighting for our discounted cash flow valuation and 40% for the earnings multiple models giving greater emphasis to our discounted cash flow model because the forecasted operating results that serve as a basis for the analysis incorporate management’s outlook and anticipated changes for the businesses consistent with a market participant. The primary assumptions used in these various models include estimated earnings multiples of comparable acquisitions in the industry including control premiums, earnings multiples on acquisitions completed by Sysco in the past, future cash flow estimates of the reporting units, which are dependent on internal forecasts and projected growth rates, and weighted average cost of capital, along with working capital and capital expenditure requirements. When possible, we use observable market inputs in our models to arrive at the fair values of our reporting units. We update our projections used in our discounted cash flow model based on historical performance and changing business conditions for each of our reporting units. 

Our estimates of fair value contain uncertainties requiring management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. Actual results could differ from these assumptions and projections, resulting in the company revising its assumptions and, if required, recognizing an impairment loss. There were no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles recorded as a result of assessment in fiscal 2015, 2014 or 2013. Our past estimates of fair value for fiscal 2014 and 2013 have not been materially different when revised to include subsequent years’ actual results. Sysco has not made any material changes in its impairment assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years. We do not believe the estimates used in the analysis are reasonably likely to change materially in the future but we will continue to assess the estimates in the future based on the expectations of the reporting units. In the fiscal 2015 assessment, our estimates of fair value did not require additional analysis. However, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for our Costa Rican Broadline and European Broadline reporting units if our estimates of fair value were decreased by 14% to 15%, respectively. As of June 27, 2015, these reporting units had goodwill aggregating $218.2 million. For the remainder of our reporting units, which as of June 27, 2015 had goodwill aggregating $1.8 billion, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for a reporting unit if the estimated fair value of these reporting units had declined by greater than 25%. 

Certain reporting units (Caribbean Broadline, European Broadline, specialty produce, custom-cut meat, lodging industry products, imported specialty products, international distribution operations and our Sysco Ventures platform) have a greater proportion of goodwill recorded to estimated fair value as compared to the U.S. Broadline, Canada Broadline or SYGMA reporting units. This is primarily due to these businesses having been more recently acquired, and as a result there has been less history of organic growth than in the U.S. Broadline, Canadian Broadline and SYGMA reporting units. In addition, these businesses also have lower levels of cash flow than the U.S. Broadline reporting unit. As such, these reporting units have a greater risk of future impairment if their operations were to suffer a significant downturn. 

Share-Based Compensation

Sysco provides compensation benefits to employees and non-employee directors under several share-based payment arrangements including various employee stock option plans, a non-employee director plan and the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan.

As of June 27, 2015, there was $69.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.42 years.

The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of Sysco’s stock, implied volatilities from traded options on Sysco’s stock and other factors. We utilize historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model; 

43

separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. Expected dividend yield is estimated based on the historical pattern of dividends and the average stock price for the year preceding the option grant. The risk-free rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.

The fair value of each restricted stock unit award granted with a dividend equivalent is based on the company’s stock price as of the date of grant. For restricted stock units granted without dividend equivalents, the fair value is reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period.

The fair value of the stock issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan is calculated as the difference between the stock price and the employee purchase price.

The fair value of restricted stock granted to employees or non-employee directors is based on the stock price on grant date. The application of a discount to the fair value of a restricted stock grant is dependent upon whether or not each individual grant contains a post-vesting restriction. 

The compensation cost related to these share-based awards is recognized over the requisite service period. The requisite service period is generally the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The compensation cost related to stock issuances resulting from employee purchases of stock under the Employees’ Stock Purchase Plan is recognized during the quarter in which the employee payroll withholdings are made.

Our share-based awards are generally subject to graded vesting over a service period. We will recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.

In addition, certain of our share-based awards provide that the awards continue to vest as if the award holder continued to be an employee or director if the award holder meets certain age and years of service thresholds upon retirement. In these cases, we will recognize compensation cost for such awards over the period from the grant date to the date the employee or director first becomes eligible to retire with the options continuing to vest after retirement.

Our option grants include options that qualify as incentive stock options for income tax purposes. In the period the compensation cost related to incentive stock options is recorded, a corresponding tax benefit is not recorded as it is assumed that we will not receive a tax deduction related to such incentive stock options. We may be eligible for tax deductions in subsequent periods to the extent that there is a disqualifying disposition of the incentive stock option. In such cases, we would record a tax benefit related to the tax deduction in an amount not to exceed the corresponding cumulative compensation cost recorded in the financial statements on the particular options multiplied by the statutory tax rate.

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements made herein that look forward in time or express management’s expectations or beliefs with respect to the occurrence of future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management’s current expectations and estimates. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and our actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors,” which are incorporated herein by reference. 

In addition to the Risk Factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, the success of Sysco’s strategic initiatives could be affected by conditions in the economy and the industry and internal factors, such as the ability to control expenses, including fuel costs. Our expectations regarding cost per case may be impacted by factors beyond our control, including actions by our competitors and/or customers. Company-sponsored pension plan liabilities are impacted by a number of factors including the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits, the assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation levels and the expected rate of return on plan assets. The amount of shares repurchased in a given period is subject to a number of factors, including available cash and our general working capital needs at the time. Meeting our dividend target objectives depends on our level of earnings, available cash and the success of our various strategic initiatives. Our expectations regarding earnings per share and various items impacting earnings is subject to a number of factors, including our ability to manage operating expenses and the impact of Certain Items. Our plans with respect to growth in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business are subject to our other strategic initiatives, the allocation of resources, and plans and economic 

44

conditions generally. Legal proceedings and the adequacy of insurance are impacted by events, circumstances and individuals beyond the control of Sysco. The need for additional borrowing or other capital is impacted by various factors, including capital expenditures or acquisitions in excess of those currently anticipated, levels of stock repurchases, or other unexpected cash requirements. Plans regarding the repayment of debt are subject to change at any time based on management’s assessment of the overall needs of the company. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including risks related to the timing and successful completions of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending. Our ability to finance capital expenditures as anticipated may be influenced by our results of operations, our borrowing capacity, share repurchases, dividend levels and other factors. Expectations regarding tax rates and the transfer of cash held in foreign jurisdictions are subject to various factors beyond our control and decisions of management throughout the fiscal year that are subject to change based on Sysco's business needs. The anticipated impact of compliance with laws and regulations also involves the risk that estimates may turn out to be materially incorrect, and laws and regulations, as well as methods of enforcement, are subject to change.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk