Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Management believes the following sections summarize several of the most relevant matters necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporation’s (“Regions” or “the Company”) business, particularly regarding its 2013 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

2013 Results

Regions reported net income available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.77 per diluted share, in 2013 compared to net income available to common shareholders of $991 million, or $0.71 per diluted share, in 2012. 

For 2013, net interest income (taxable-equivalent basis) from continuing operations totaled $3.3 billion compared to $3.4 billion in 2012. The net interest margin (taxable-equivalent basis) was 3.20 percent in 2013 and 3.11 percent in 2012. The decrease in net interest income (taxable-equivalent basis) was driven primarily by a decline in yields earned on earning assets that was only partially offset by a decline in rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The increase in net interest margin was primarily due to a reduction in earning assets and a 20 basis point decline in total funding costs.

The provision for loan losses totaled $138 million in 2013 compared to $213 million in 2012. Credit metrics, including net charge-offs and non-accrual, criticized and classified loan balances showed continued improving trends in 2013 compared to 2012. Net charge-offs totaled $716 million, or 0.96 percent of average loans, in 2013, compared to $1.0 billion, or 1.37 percent in 2012. Net charge-offs were lower across most major loan categories when comparing 2013 to the prior year, except for residential first mortgage loans which included $151 million in net charge-offs related to the transfer to held for sale of primarily accruing restructured mortgages near the end of 2013. Net charge-offs exceeded provision for loan losses for 2013 primarily due to the continued improving credit metrics, including lower levels of non-accrual loans and criticized and classified loans, as well as, problem loan resolutions, and a continuing mix shift in loans out of higher risk investor real estate and into lower risk commercial and industrial loans. The allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2013 was 1.80 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, compared to 2.59 percent at December 31, 2012. Total non-performing assets were $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013, compared to $1.9 billion at December 31, 2012.

Non-interest income from continuing operations for 2013 was $2.0 billion, compared to $2.1 billion for 2012. The decline from the prior year was driven primarily by a $127 million decrease in mortgage income. Mortgage loan production fell 18 percent from 2012 as consumer demand for mortgage loans slowed due to rising interest rates. See Table 5 "Non-Interest Income from Continuing Operations" for further details. 

Total non-interest expense from continuing operations was $3.6 billion in 2013 and $3.5 billion in 2012. The 2013 period included a $58 million regulatory charge, $5 million in branch consolidation charges, and $61 million in loss on early extinguishment of debt. The 2012 period included $42 million in REIT investment early termination costs and $11 million in loss on early extinguishment of debt. See Table 6 "Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations" for further details.

A discussion of activity within discontinued operations is included at the end of "Operating Results" in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section of this report.

For more information, refer to the following additional section within this Form 10-K:

•"Operating Results" section of MD&A

Capital

Capital Actions

As part of its 2013 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR") submission, Regions' proposed capital plans included increasing its quarterly common stock dividend from $0.01 per share to $0.03 per share; executing up to $350 million in common share repurchases; and the execution of various liability management transactions including a tender offer for a portion 

35

Table of Contents 

of outstanding parent company senior notes, the issuance of new parent company senior notes, the redemption of certain preferred securities issued by Union Planters Preferred Funding Corporation ("Union Planters"), a subsidiary of Regions Bank, and the redemption of all of the Company’s remaining trust preferred securities. The Federal Reserve did not object to these plans. 

Regions' Board of Directors declared the higher common stock dividend each quarter in 2013 beginning with the second quarter. Management expects to continue to execute the capital planning process, including evaluation of the amount of the common stock dividend, with the Board of Directors and in conjunction with regulatory supervisors, subject to the Company’s results of operations.

Regions’ Board of Directors also approved the share repurchase plan in March 2013. The share repurchase authority granted by the Board of Directors was available at the beginning of the second quarter of 2013 and will continue through the first quarter of 2014, but has been substantially executed. As of December 31, 2013, Regions had repurchased approximately 36 million shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $340 million. These shares were immediately retired upon repurchase and therefore are not included in treasury stock.

In April 2013, Regions launched a tender offer for a portion of its outstanding 7.75% Senior Notes due 2014. Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the tender offer, Regions purchased $350 million aggregate principal amount of these notes. In April 2013, Regions also issued $750 million of 2.00% parent company senior notes due in 2018.

In June 2013, Regions redeemed $100 million in long-term debt consisting of preferred stock issued by Union Planters.

During the fourth quarter of 2012, Regions redeemed approximately $345 million in junior subordinated notes to affiliated trusts, which had contemporaneously issued trust preferred securities that Regions guaranteed (“trust preferred securities”). In the second and third quarters of 2013, Regions redeemed approximately $498 million and $3 million, respectively, representing all of its remaining outstanding trust preferred securities. 

For more information refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Long-Term Borrowings” discussion in MD&A

•“Stockholders’ Equity” discussion in MD&A

•“Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements” discussion in MD&A

•Note 2 “Variable Interest Entities” to the consolidated financial statements

•Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements

•Note 14 “Stockholders’ Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)” to the consolidated financial statements

Regulatory Capital

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve. Currently, under Basel I, the minimum guidelines to be considered well-capitalized for Tier I capital and Total capital are 6.0 percent and 10.0 percent, respectively. At December 31, 2013, Regions’ Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios were 11.68 percent and 14.73 percent respectively. In addition, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators routinely supplement their assessment of capital adequacy based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, know as Tier 1 common equity. Although Federal banking regulators did not establish minimum guidelines to be considered well-capitalized under Basel I, the Tier 1 common equity ratio has been a key component in assessing capital adequacy under the CCAR process. At December 31, 2013, Regions’ Tier 1 common equity ratio (non-GAAP) was 11.21 percent. 

In July 2013, Regions' and Regions Bank's primary federal regulator, the Federal Reserve, published final rules (the “Basel III Capital Rules”) establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. The Basel III Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and depository institutions, including Regions and Regions Bank, compared to the current U.S. risk-based capital rules (Basel I). The Basel III Capital Rules define the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios. The Basel III Capital Rules also address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing risk-weighting approach with a more risk-sensitive approach. The Basel III Capital Rules are expected to be effective for Regions and Regions Bank on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period).

The Basel III Capital Rules officially define the Tier 1 common equity ratio (referred to in the rule as “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”). When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets will be at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively 

36

Table of Contents 

resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% upon full implementation). Regions’ understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as analysis and discussions with regulators continue. Based on its current understanding, Regions estimates its CET1 ratio (non-GAAP) under Basel III at December 31, 2013 to be 10.58 percent . Similarly, Regions will be subject to the “modified” liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) updated by the Federal Reserve via their NPR (notice of proposed rule making) released in October 2013. Based on Regions’ current understanding and interpretation of the rules, full implementation is expected to be on a phased-in approach beginning in 2015 with full compliance to be reached in 2017. The Company anticipates being fully compliant with the LCR requirements upon finalization and implementation. However, should Regions’ cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions’ ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. The comment period on these proposed rules ended on January 31, 2014.

For more information refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Supervision and Regulation” discussion within Item 1. Business

•Table 2 - “GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliation”

•Bank Regulatory Capital Requirements section of MD&A

•Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements

Loan Portfolio and Credit

The Company grew total loans at December 31, 2013 by $614 million compared to year-end 2012. Loan growth was led by the commercial and industrial portfolio which increased $2.7 billion in 2013 and the indirect portfolio which grew $739 million in 2013. The combined growth of these two portfolios more than offset declines in commercial real estate, investor real estate, residential first mortgage and home equity loans. This was the first year the Company reported net loan growth since 2008. The economy has been and will be the primary factor which influences Regions’ loan portfolio. Beginning in 2012 and continuing in 2013, the economy began to modestly improve. The rate of economic growth improved in 2012, but over the first half of 2013 growth was impaired by increases in payroll tax rates, higher tax rates on investment income, and the implementation of the sequestration spending cuts by the federal government. Over the second half of 2013, however, the U.S. economy grew at a rate in excess of 3.0 percent and began 2014 with positive momentum. The commercial and consumer deleveraging that impacted the industry, particularly Regions, in recent years appears to be abating. The Company’s investor real estate portfolio, although down year-over-year, appears to be reaching an inflection point. The December 31, 2013 investor real estate portfolio compared to the year-end 2012 balances were down approximately $972 million, compared to a decline of $3.0 billion in 2012. The Company has experienced success and growth in its commercial and industrial loan portfolio as described above. Specialized lending areas, such as real estate corporate banking, asset based lending, healthcare and technology, have been the main contributors. This growth has helped to improve the Company’s loan mix away from its historical real estate focus. Total commercial real estate, investor real estate, residential first mortgage and home equity loans (all real estate based lending) comprised approximately 54 percent of total loans at December 31, 2013 compared to approximately 58 percent at December 31, 2012 and approximately 71 percent at December 31, 2008. Home equity and residential first mortgage loans declined $1.3 billion on an ending basis in 2013. This decrease was partially offset by growth in indirect lending and consumer credit cards. Indirect lending grew $739 million or 32 percent in 2013. Growth in indirect lending was primarily due to an increase in the number of dealer relationships. Growth in consumer credit cards was primarily due to an increase in the number of active credit card holders. Management’s expectation for 2014 loan growth is in the 3 percent to 5 percent range.

Credit quality metrics continued to improve in 2013. Total non-performing assets declined 32 percent to $1.3 billion in 2013 compared to 2012. Including troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”) held for sale, total TDRs declined 23 percent to approximately $2.8 billion in 2013 compared to 2012. Total commercial and investor real estate criticized and classified loans declined approximately $1.5 billion or 33 percent in 2013 compared to 2012. These favorable trends contributed to a 31 percent decline in net charge-offs and a 35 percent decline in provision expense in 2013 compared to 2012. The allowance for loan losses to total loans decreased to 1.80 percent at December 31, 2013 compared to 2.59 percent at December 31, 2012. The coverage ratio of allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans was 1.24x at December 31, 2013 compared to 1.14x at December 31, 2012. 

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Allowance for Credit Losses” discussion within “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in MD&A

•“Provision for Loan Losses” discussion within the “Operating Results” section of MD&A

•“Loans,” “Allowance for Credit Losses,” “Troubled Debt Restructurings” and “Non-performing Assets” discussions within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A

•“Credit Risk” discussion within the “Risk Management” section of MD&A

•Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements

•Note 5 "Loans" to the consolidated financial statements

37

Table of Contents 

•Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements

Net Interest Income, Margin and Interest Rate Risk

In 2013, the net interest margin expanded to 3.20 percent from 3.11 percent in 2012, largely due to a mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 15 basis points in 2013 from 30 basis points in 2012. Also, contributing to the margin expansion were the liability management actions described in the Capital Actions discussion above. Taxable-equivalent net interest income decreased $34 million to $3.3 billion in 2013, due primarily to a decline in yields earned on earning assets that was only partially offset by a decline in rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Despite the continued improvements in deposit costs and mix, the margin and net interest income continue to be pressured by a sustained low interest rate, low growth environment. Reductions in average securities and loans were the main contributors to the decline in average earning assets and net interest income. The Company’s securities yield declined 17 basis points driven primarily by management’s strategic decision to reduce the size of the portfolio along with reinvestment of proceeds into lower yielding securities. Loan yields declined 16 basis points primarily due to new loan originations at lower rates, partially offset by a reduction in non-accrual loans. The Company did experience modest loan growth in 2013 on an ending basis, and management is optimistic for continued modest growth in 2014. If economic conditions and interest rates prevalent at year-end 2013 remain unchanged in 2014, and the Company achieves the 3 percent to 5 percent forecasted loan growth, management believes the net interest margin will remain relatively stable. Regions’ balance sheet is in a moderately asset sensitive position and should benefit from a rise in either long-term or short-term rates. If economic conditions were to improve more rapidly, thereby resulting in a rise in interest rates, both net interest income and the resulting net interest margin would respond favorably.

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Net Interest Income and Margin” discussion within the “Operating Results” section of MD&A

•“Interest Rate Risk” discussion within “Risk Management” section of MD&A

Liquidity

At the end of 2013, Regions Bank had over $3.6 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve, the loan-to-deposit ratio was 81 percent and cash and cash equivalents at the parent company totaled $1.2 billion. Regions revised its liquidity policy related to minimum holding company cash requirements during the fourth quarter of 2013. The new policy requires the holding company to maintain cash sufficient to cover the greater of (1) 18 months of debt service and other cash needs or (2) a minimum cash balance of $500 million. At December 31, 2013, the Company’s borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve Discount Window was $22.2 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing capacity with the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) was $9.6 billion based on available collateral at the same date. Additionally, the Company has approximately $10.5 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging or repurchase agreements. The Board of Directors has also approved a bank note program which would allow Regions Bank to issue up to $5 billion in aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. As of December 31, 2013, no issues have been made under this program. 

See the "Regulatory Capital" section above for a full discussion of the LCR.

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

• “Supervision and Regulation” discussion within Item 1. Business 

•“Short-Term Borrowings” discussion within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A

•“Long-Term Borrowings” discussion within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A

•“Regulatory Capital Requirements” discussion in MD&A

•“Liquidity” discussion within the “Risk Management” section of MD&A

•Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements

•Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements

GENERAL

The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions’ financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on continuing operations for the years 2013, 2012 and 2011; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted.

38

Table of Contents 

Regions’ profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and non-interest income sources. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest-bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions’ net interest income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Non-interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, investment management and trust activities, insurance activities, capital markets and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non-interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional fees, deposit administrative fees, other real estate owned and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes.

Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect most, if not all, financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions’ market areas.

Regions’ business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations.

Dispositions

On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan and related affiliates to Raymond James. The sale closed on April 2, 2012. Regions Investment Management, Inc. (formerly known as Morgan Asset Management, Inc.) and Regions Trust were not included in the sale. They are now included in the Wealth Management segment.

Results of operations for the entities sold are presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented on the consolidated statements of operations. Other expenses related to the transaction are also included in discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” and Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” for further details.

Business Segments

Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of asset management, trust, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from the three reportable business segments: Business Services, Consumer Services, and Wealth Management, with the remainder split between Discontinued Operations and Other. During the third quarter of 2012, Regions reorganized its internal management structure and, accordingly, its segment reporting structure. Historically, Regions’ primary business segment was Banking/Treasury, representing the Company’s banking network (including the Consumer & Commercial Banking function along with the Treasury function). Other segments included Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust and Insurance. During the second quarter of 2012, Regions consummated the sale of Morgan Keegan (the primary component of Investment Banking/Brokerage/Trust). Shortly thereafter, Regions announced organizational changes to better integrate and execute the Company’s strategic priorities across all business groups and geographies. As a result, Regions revised its reportable segments.

Business Services

The Business Services segment represents the Company’s commercial banking functions including commercial and industrial, commercial real estate and investor real estate lending. This segment also includes equipment lease financing. Business Services customers include corporate, middle market, small business and commercial real estate developers and investors. Corresponding deposit products related to these types of customers are included in this segment. In 2013, the Business Services reportable segment contributed $705 million of net income.

Consumer Services

The Consumer Services segment represents the Company’s branch network, including consumer banking products and services related to residential first mortgages, home equity lines and loans, indirect loans, consumer credit cards and other consumer loans, as well as the corresponding deposit relationships. These services are also provided through alternative channels such as the internet and telephone banking. In 2013, the Consumer Services reportable segment contributed $346 million of net income.

Wealth Management

The Wealth Management segment offers individuals, businesses, governmental institutions and non-profit entities a wide range of solutions to help protect, grow and transfer wealth. Offerings include credit related products, trust and investment 

39

Table of Contents 

management, asset management, retirement and savings solutions, estate planning and commercial insurance products. Wealth Management activities contributed $55 million of net income in 2013.

See Note 22 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions’ business segments.

40

Table of Contents 

Table 1—Financial Highlights

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________

NM—Not meaningful

(1)See Table 2 for GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations.

(2)High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices.

NON-GAAP MEASURES

The table below presents computations of certain financial measures, which exclude certain significant items that are included in the financial results presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include “fee income ratio”, “efficiency ratio”, “return on average tangible common stockholders’ equity”, average and end of period “tangible common stockholders’ equity”, “Tier 1 common equity”, and “Basel III Tier 1 common equity” and related ratios. Regions believes that expressing certain financial measures excluding these significant items provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes should assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions’ business because management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Management and the Board of Directors utilize these non-GAAP financial measures as follows:

•Preparation of Regions’ operating budgets

•Monthly financial performance reporting

•Monthly close-out reporting of consolidated results (management only)

•Presentations to investors of Company performance

The adjusted efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non-interest expense divided by total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis. The adjusted fee income ratio (non-GAAP) is generally calculated as non-interest income divided by total revenue. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the adjusted efficiency ratio. Non-interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the adjusted fee income ratio. Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis (GAAP) and non-interest income (GAAP) are added together to arrive at total revenue (GAAP). Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), which is the denominator for the adjusted fee income and adjusted efficiency ratios. 

Tangible common stockholders’ equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank’s capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. In connection with the Federal Reserve’s CCAR process, these regulators are supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. Analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions’ capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders’ equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions’ capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 

42

Table of Contents 

1 common equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions’ capital adequacy on these same bases.

Tier 1 common equity is often expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets. Under the current risk-based capital framework, a bank’s balance sheet assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are assigned to one of four broad risk categories. The aggregated dollar amount in each category is then multiplied by the risk weighting assigned to that category. The resulting weighted values from each of the four categories are added together and this sum is the risk-weighted assets total that comprises the denominator of certain risk-based capital ratios. Tier 1 capital is then divided by this denominator (risk-weighted assets) to determine the Tier 1 capital ratio. Adjustments are made to Tier 1 capital to arrive at Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP). Tier 1 common equity is also divided by the risk-weighted assets to determine the Tier 1 common equity ratio (non-GAAP). The amounts disclosed as risk-weighted assets are calculated consistent with banking regulatory requirements.

Regions currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for Basel III, which will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulations. When fully phased-in, Basel III will increase capital requirements through higher minimum capital levels as well as through increases in risk-weights for certain exposures. Additionally, the final Basel III rules place greater emphasis on common equity. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve released final rules detailing the U.S. implementation of Basel III. Regions, as a non-advanced approaches bank, will begin transitioning to the Basel III framework in January 2015 subject to a phase-in period extending through January 2019. Regions is currently evaluating the impact of the final Basel III rules. Accordingly, the calculations provided below are estimates. Because the Basel III implementation regulations will not be fully phased-in until 2019, are not formally defined by GAAP, and because the calculations currently include the Company's interpretations of the requirements including informal feedback received through the regulatory process and are therefore likely to change as clarifying guidance becomes available, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently from Regions’ disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions’ capital adequacy using the Basel III framework, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions’ capital adequacy on the same basis. 

Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes selected items does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders.

The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of non-interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of non-interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), 3) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), 4) a computation of the adjusted efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), 5) a computation of the adjusted fee income ratio (non-GAAP), 6) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders’ equity (non-GAAP) and calculations of related ratios (non-GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to Tier 1 capital (regulatory) and to Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP) and calculations of related ratios, and 8) a reconciliation of stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to Basel III Tier 1 common equity (non-GAAP) and calculation of the related ratio based on Regions’ current understanding of the Basel III requirements. The estimate at December 31, 2013 is based on the final rule released in July 2013 and the estimate at December 31, 2012 is based on the U.S. Notices of Proposed Rulemaking released in June 2012.

43

Table of Contents 

Table 2—GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

44

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45

Table of Contents 

 _________

(1)In the fourth quarter of 2013, Regions recorded a non-tax deductible charge of $58 million related to previously disclosed inquires from government authorities concerning matters from 2009. Regions is in discussions with banking supervisors to resolve their inquiries on these matters. In the second quarter of 2010, Regions recorded a $200 million charge to account for a probable, reasonably estimable loss related to a pending settlement of regulatory matters. $75 million of the regulatory charge related to continuing operations. 

(2)In the fourth quarter of 2012, Regions entered into an agreement with a third party investor in Regions Asset Management Company, Inc., pursuant to which the investment was fully redeemed. This resulted in extinguishing a $203 million liability, including accrued, unpaid interest, as well as incurring early termination costs of approximately $42 million on a pre-tax basis ($38 million after tax).

(3)In the third quarter of 2013, Regions recorded a $24 million gain on sale of a non-core portion of a Wealth Management business.

(4)Taxable income from the two previous tax years and one year of projected future taxable income may be applied in calculating deferred tax assets for regulatory capital purposes.

(5)The 2013 estimate is based on the final rule released in July 2013. The 2012 estimate is based on the June 2012 U.S. Notices of Proposed Rulemaking.

(6)Under Basel III, regulatory capital must be reduced by purchased credit card relationship intangible assets. These assets are partially allowed in Basel I capital.

(7)Regions continues to develop systems and internal controls to precisely calculate risk-weighted assets as required by Basel III. The amount included above is a reasonable approximation, based on our understanding of the requirements.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND RELATED POLICIES

In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), mortgage servicing rights and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses (“allowance”) consists of two components: the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. The allowance represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of period end. 

The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding, portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as the general health of the economy, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the gross domestic product ("GDP"), and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts and hurricanes. Management considers these variables and all available information when establishing the final level of the allowance. These variables and others have the ability to result in actual loan losses that differ from the originally estimated amounts. 

Management’s estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individual’s credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. For non-accrual commercial and investor real estate loans equal to or greater than $2.5 million, the allowance for loan losses is based on note-level evaluation considering the facts and circumstances specific to each borrower. For all other commercial and investor real estate loans, the allowance for loan losses is based on statistical models using a probability of default (“PD”) and a loss given default (“LGD”). Historical default information for similar loans is used as an input for the statistical model. A 5 percent increase in the PD for non-defaulted accounts and a 5 percent increase in the LGD for all accounts would result in an increase to estimated losses of approximately $69 million.

For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer-related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 5 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $18 million.

The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. A full discussion of these assumptions and other factors is included in 

46

Table of Contents 

the “Allowance for Credit Losses” section within the discussion of “Credit Risk”, found in a later section of this report, Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

Fair Value Measurements

A portion of the Company’s assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account securities, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, mortgage servicing rights and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets.

Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to “normal” market activity, management’s objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third-party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates.

A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company-specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Company’s own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability.

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes.

Intangible Assets 

Regions’ intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (“goodwill”) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at both December 31, 2013 and 2012 and is allocated to each of Regions’ reportable segments (each a reporting unit: Business Services, Consumer Services, and Wealth Management). Refer to Note 22 “Business Segment Information” for discussion on Regions reorganization of its management reporting structure during the third quarter of 2012 and, accordingly, its segment reporting structure and goodwill reporting units. In connection with the reorganization, management reallocated goodwill to the new reporting units using a relative fair value approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion). 

A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount, including goodwill. To the extent that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied estimated fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities excluding goodwill and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The carrying value of equity for each reporting unit is determined from an allocation based upon risk weighted assets. Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value.

47

Table of Contents 

The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is determined using a blend of both income and market approaches. Within the income approach, which is the primary valuation approach, Regions utilizes the capital asset pricing model (“CAPM”) in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20-year risk-free rate, 5-year beta for a select peer set specific to each reporting unit, and a market risk premium based on published data. Once the output of the CAPM is determined, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company-specific risk premium for each reporting unit, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. Regions evaluates the appropriateness of the inputs to the CAPM at each test date. Company specific factors considered during recent evaluation periods include positive results of operations, improvement in asset quality and strong capital and liquidity positions. 

In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and statements of operations for the last twelve months of activity for each reporting unit is compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of operations are projected based on the inputs. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and/or budgets. These internal forecasts range from 1 to 3 years and are based on inputs developed in the Company’s internal strategic and capital planning processes.

Regions uses the guideline public company method and the guideline transaction method as its market approaches. The public company method applies a value multiplier derived from each reporting unit’s peer group to a financial metric and an implied control premium to the respective reporting units. The control premium is evaluated and compared to similar financial services transactions considering the absolute and relative potential revenue synergies and cost savings. The guideline transaction method applies a value multiplier to a financial metric of the reporting unit based on comparable observed purchase transactions in the financial services industry for the reporting unit (where available).

Refer to Note 9 “Intangible Assets” for further discussion of these approaches and related assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities in Step Two, if applicable, are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities.

 The results of the calculations for the fourth quarter of 2013 indicated that the estimated fair values of the Business Services, Consumer Services and Wealth Management reporting units were $8.7 billion, $5.4 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively, which were greater than their carrying amounts of $8.6 billion, $5.2 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. Therefore, the goodwill of each reporting unit was considered not impaired as of the testing date, and Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was not required.

The table below summarizes the discount rate used in the goodwill impairment test of each reporting unit for the fourth, third, second, and first quarters of 2013 and the fourth quarter of 2012:

Discount Rates 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Company’s market capitalization; disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets (especially loans) compared to equity; increases in book values of equity of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in fair value of equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and/or regulatory actions; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of high unemployment levels; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 13 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations (e.g., such as those resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act); and/or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates significantly beyond 2014.

For sensitivity analysis, a discount rate of 13 percent (an increase of one percentage point) for the Business Services, Consumer Services, and Wealth Management reporting units would result in estimated fair values of equity of $8.0 billion, $4.9 billion, and 

48

Table of Contents 

$1.3 billion, respectively. Wealth Management's estimated fair value of equity would exceed its carrying value and would not require Step Two procedures. Business Services' resulting fair value of equity would be $600 million less than its carrying value and likewise, Consumer Services' resulting fair value of equity would be $300 million less than its carrying value, which would require Step Two procedures for both reporting units. As part of the sensitivity analysis, Regions performed hypothetical Step Two procedures. In Step Two, the fair value of the reporting unit's assets, both tangible and intangible, and liabilities are determined using estimates of the amounts at which the assets (or liabilities) can be bought (or incurred) or sold (settled) in a taxable transaction between willing participants. The effects of the Step Two adjustments for Business Services and Consumer Services, which would have been primarily write-downs of assets to fair value, would have exceeded any reductions in the value of equity determined in Step One; accordingly the resulting implied goodwill would have exceeded the carrying amount of goodwill by approximately 72 percent for Business Services and by approximately 104 percent for Consumer Services, with no resulting impairment to either reporting unit.

Sensitivity calculations are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change.

Other material identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and/or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions’ operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated.

Mortgage Servicing Rights

Regions estimates the fair value of its mortgage servicing rights in order to record them at fair value on the balance sheet. Although sales of mortgage servicing rights do occur, mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the “Fair Value Measurements” section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related mortgage servicing rights. As a result, Regions stratifies its mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its mortgage servicing rights using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of mortgage servicing rights which impacts earnings. The carrying value of mortgage servicing rights was $297 million at December 31, 2013. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2013 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 4 percent ($12 million) and 9 percent ($26 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2013 fair value of mortgage servicing rights by approximately 4 percent ($11 million) and 7 percent ($20 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 18 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the mortgage servicing rights by approximately $10 million or 4 basis points.

The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the “Mortgage Servicing Rights” discussion in the “Balance Sheet” analysis section found later in this report.

Income Taxes

Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect management’s estimate of income taxes to be paid or received.

Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax-planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre-tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book-tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the 

49

Table of Contents 

amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the “Income Taxes” section found later in this report.

The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. The Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to any tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities.

The Company’s estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

OPERATING RESULTS

GENERAL

For 2013, Regions reported net income available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.77 per diluted common share. In January 2012, Regions entered into an agreement to sell Morgan Keegan to Raymond James Financial, Inc. The results of the entities sold are presented as discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” of the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Regions reported net income from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.78 per diluted common share in 2013. Regions’ net loss from discontinued operations in 2013 was $13 million, or $(0.01) per diluted common share.

Regions’ 2013 results from continuing operations reflected a decline in its provision for loan losses resulting from continued improving credit metrics. Regions also experienced lower net interest income as a result of a decline in interest-earning asset levels combined with lower earning asset yields, as well as, lower non-interest income and slightly higher non-interest expenses.

NET INTEREST INCOME AND MARGIN 

Net interest income (interest income less interest expense) is Regions’ principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions’ ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis decreased approximately $34 million, or 1 percent in 2013 from 2012, driven primarily by a decline in yields earned on earning assets that was only partially offset by a decline in rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The net interest margin increased to 3.20 percent in 2013 from 3.11 percent in 2012, reflecting a favorable mix shift in deposits out of higher-cost time deposits into lower-cost checking, savings and money market accounts, as well as improvements in the cost of non-deposit borrowings resulting primarily from the execution of liability management actions. 

Comparing 2013 to 2012, average interest-earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 10 basis points. However, interest-bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 27 basis points, more than offsetting the drop in interest-earning asset yields. As a result, the net interest rate spread increased 17 basis points to 3.03 percent in 2013 compared to 2.86 percent in 2012.

Monetary policy action pursued by the Federal Reserve, as well as a modest pace of economic recovery resulted in continued low levels of both long and short-term interest rates in 2013, both of which have influence on net interest margin and net interest income. Long-term rates are generally represented by the yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note, which slowly increased in 2013 from 1.78 percent at the beginning of the year, dropped to a low of 1.66 percent in May 2013 and then increased to a high of 3.04 percent at year-end. The average yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note was 2.35 percent in 2013. While being somewhat volatile during the year, long-term rates remained at historically low levels, which affected interest-earning asset yields through their impact on the behavior and pricing of both variable-rate and fixed-rate loans and securities. One way in which long-term interest rates affect asset yields is through their influence on prepayment activity. Low levels of long-term interest rates precipitate higher levels of prepayments, particularly within fixed-rate loan and securities portfolios, which has resulted in the replacement of these assets at lower rates of interest. Additionally, government programs such as the Home Affordable Refinance Program ("HARP") have influenced levels of prepayments among loans and securities in a similar fashion. The taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed-rate exposure, decreased in yield from 2.55 percent in 2012 to 2.38 percent in 2013. The Company's loan pricing is also influenced by short-term rates such as the 30-day London Interbank Offering Rate ("LIBOR"), which on average was 19 basis points in 2013, compared to 24 basis points in 2012, and therefore had minimal impact on changes in the net interest margin as compared to 2012.

50

Table of Contents 

The negative impact of low, long-term interest rates on the net interest margin was more than offset by improvements in liability costs. While the rates that most directly influence deposits costs (such as the Federal Reserve’s Rate of Interest on Excess Reserves and the Prime rate) both remained low and unchanged from the previous year-end level (at 0.25 percent and 3.25 percent, respectively), deposit costs were able to improve considerably, from 30 basis points in 2012 to 15 basis points in 2013. The improvement was due both to absolute improvements in cost of most deposit categories, but also to improvements in the mix of deposits from higher-cost time deposits to lower-cost checking and savings categories. For example, average time deposits declined from $16.5 billion, or 17.3 percent of total average deposits, in 2012 to $11.1 billion, or 12.0 percent of total average deposits in 2013. Meanwhile, average non-interest bearing customer deposits increased from $29.4 billion in 2012 to $29.6 billion in 2013. Net interest margin was also supported by a favorable shift of funding to customer deposits from more costly long-term borrowings. Average long-term borrowings declined to $5.2 billion in 2013 as compared to $6.7 billion in 2012, primarily due to the successful execution of liability management actions. See the "Long-Term Borrowings" section in Management's Discussion and Analysis and Note 12 to these consolidated financial statements for additional information related to these actions.

51

Table of Contents 

Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations” presents a detail of net interest income (on a taxable-equivalent basis), the net interest margin, and the net interest spread.

Table 3—Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

52

Table of Contents 

_______ 

(1)Loans, net of unearned income include non-accrual loans for all periods presented.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(4)The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table 4—Volume and Yield/Rate Variances from Continuing Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______ 

Notes:

•The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.

•The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.

•The table above does not include average assets, average liabilities, interest income or interest expense for discontinued operations (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).

The mix of interest-earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions’ primary types of interest-earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of interest-earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreements to resell. The spread on loans remained depressed in 2013 due to the low interest rate environment and an elevated level of loans on non-accrual status. Average interest-earning assets at December 31, 2013 totaled $103.7 billion, a decrease of $4.1 billion as compared to the prior year. 

53

Table of Contents 

Average loans as a percentage of average interest-earning assets were 72 percent in 2013 and 71 percent in 2012. The remaining categories of interest-earning assets are shown in Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations”. The proportion of average interest-earning assets to average total assets, which was 88 percent in both 2013 and 2012, measures the effectiveness of management’s efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable interest-earning vehicles. This measure was consistent with the prior year as the overwhelming majority of the decline in total assets in 2013 was in interest-earning assets. Funding for Regions’ interest-earning assets comes from interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of interest-earning assets funded by interest-bearing liabilities. The percentage of average interest-earning assets funded by average interest-bearing liabilities was 68 percent in 2013 and 69 percent in 2012.

Table 4 “Volume and Yield/Rate Variances from Continuing Operations” provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income.

PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in management’s judgment is appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2013, the provision for loan losses totaled $138 million and net charge-offs were $716 million. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $213 million and net charge-offs of $1.0 billion in 2012. Net charge-offs were lower across most major loan categories when comparing 2013 to the prior year, except for residential first mortgage loans which included $151 million of charge-offs related to the transfer of primarily accruing restructured residential mortgages to held for sale status near the end of 2013. Approximately $76 million of these mortgage related charge-offs were previously provided for in the allowance for loan and lease losses. See the "Loans Held For Sale" section for more information. Net charge-offs exceeded provision for loan losses for 2013 primarily due to the continued improving credit metrics, including lower levels of non-accrual loans and criticized and classified loans, as well as problem loan resolutions, and a continuing mix shift in loans out of higher risk investor real estate and into less risky commercial and industrial loans.

For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the “Risk Management” section found later in this report. See also Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

NON-INTEREST INCOME

Non-interest income from continuing operations represents fees and income derived from sources other than interest-earning assets. Table 5 “Non-Interest Income from Continuing Operations” provides a detail of the components of non-interest income from continuing operations. Non-interest income decreased $81 million to $2.0 billion in 2013 compared to 2012. The decrease is primarily due to a decrease in mortgage income, offset by gain on sale of other assets and leveraged lease termination gains.

54

Table of Contents 

Table 5—Non-Interest Income from Continuing Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service Charges on Deposit Accounts

Service charges on deposit accounts include non-sufficient fund fees, debit and interchange income, ATM fees and other service charges. Income from service charges on deposit accounts decreased $7 million or 1 percent in 2013 and totaled $978 million and $985 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively. The overall decline in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily driven by policy changes negatively impacting non-sufficient fund fees as well as customer behavior changes and sensitivities to paying fees. These factors were partially offset by income from higher debit transactions resulting from account growth and continued migration from paper to electronic transactions.

Mortgage Income

Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of mortgage loans for long-term investors and sales of mortgage loans in the secondary market. Mortgage income decreased $127 million or 35 percent to $236 million in 2013. The decrease was driven by lower mortgage production and the Company's decision to begin retaining 10 and 15-year residential first mortgage originations on its balance sheet beginning in the fourth quarter of 2012 as opposed to selling these originations in the secondary market. Mortgage loan production of $6.6 billion fell 18 percent from 2012 levels as consumer demand for mortgage loans slowed due to rising interest rates. An increase in the cost of hedging mortgage servicing rights also contributed to the decline in mortgage income. 

 At December 31, 2013, $28.5 billion of the mortgage servicing portfolio was serviced for third parties. At December 31, 2012, $26.2 billion of Regions’ servicing portfolio was serviced for third parties. 

Credit Card/Bank Card Income

Credit card/bank card income decreased $10 million or 12 percent in 2013 as compared to 2012. Credit card income is derived from activity related to the Regions-branded credit card portfolio purchased from FIA Card Services in the second quarter of 2011 and subsequent originations. Bank card income relates to commercial purchasing cards. In the third quarter of 2012, the Company began recording credit card relationship reward costs as a reduction of credit card revenue, which resulted in the decrease period over period.

Leveraged Lease Termination Gains, Net

Regions terminated certain leveraged leases in 2013 and 2012 resulting in net gains of $39 million and $14 million, respectively. These termination gains were largely offset by increases in income tax expense.

55

Table of Contents 

Securities Gains, Net

Regions reported net gains of $26 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2013, as compared to net gains of $48 million in 2012. Lower security gains during 2013 were due to lower volumes of securities sales resulting from the Company’s asset/liability management process. Refer to the “Securities” section in the “Balance Sheet Analysis” for further discussion.

Gain on Sale of Other Assets

During the third quarter of 2013, the Company divested a non-core portion of a Wealth Management business which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $24 million.

Other Miscellaneous Income

Other miscellaneous income increased $21 million for 2013 as compared to 2012. This item includes fees from safe deposit boxes, check fees and income from assets held for employee benefit purposes.

NON-INTEREST EXPENSE

The following section contains a discussion of non-interest expense from continuing operations. The largest components of non-interest expense are salaries and employee benefits, net occupancy expense and furniture and equipment expense. Non-interest expense in 2013 increased $30 million from 2012. Non-interest expense in 2013 included a $58 million regulatory charge and $5 million of branch consolidation and property and equipment charges. Non-interest expense in 2012 included $42 million in REIT investment early termination costs. The increase in non-interest expense in 2013 included increases of $55 million in salaries and benefits, $50 million in loss on early extinguishment of debt and $24 million in outside services. These increases were offset by decreases of $55 million in amortization of core deposit intangible, $37 million in deposit administrative fees, and $36 million in other real estate owned expense. Table 6 “Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations” presents total non-interest expense for the years ended December 31:

Table 6—Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

56

Table of Contents 

Salaries and Employee Benefits

Salaries and employee benefits increased $55 million or 3 percent during 2013 as compared to 2012. The increase is primarily due to additional staffing in income producing areas, compliance and risk management during 2013 as well as incentive increases and annual merit increases, partially offset by decreased pension costs. Headcount increased from 23,427 at December 31, 2012 to 24,255 at December 31, 2013.

Net Occupancy Expense

Net occupancy expense includes rent, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Net occupancy expense decreased $17 million or 4 percent in 2013, primarily due to lease downsizing efforts and favorable negotiation of vendor service contracts.

Furniture and Equipment Expense

Furniture and equipment expense increased by $19 million or 7 percent in 2013 primarily driven by higher depreciation due to system upgrades implemented during 2013.

Professional and Legal Expenses

Professional and legal expenses increased $18 million or 16 percent during 2013 as compared to 2012. The increase was primarily due to increased legal matters and related fees, as well as increased consulting charges attributable to regulatory and compliance projects.

Deposit Administrative Fee

Deposit administrative fees decreased $37 million or 23 percent during 2013 when compared to 2012. The decrease is related to lower asset balances, improved performance metrics and a reduction in higher risk loans, all of which impact the fee calculation.

Outside Services

Outside services increased $24 million or 29 percent during 2013 when compared to 2012. The increase was primarily due to expenses incurred related to assuming the servicing of the credit card portfolio during the third quarter of 2012, as well as fees related to an increase in the routine purchases of indirect loans from a third party. 

Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt

During 2013, the Company incurred $61 million in losses related to the early extinguishment of certain other long-term debt, the tender or redemption of certain senior debt securities and preferred stock, as well as the redemption of selected trust preferred securities. Approximately $29 million of the $61 million in losses are non-deductible for income tax purposes. The Company recognized an $11 million loss in 2012 related to the early redemption of trust preferred securities.

Regulatory Charge

Regions recorded a non-tax deductible charge of $58 million during the fourth quarter of 2013 related to previously disclosed inquiries from government authorities concerning matters from 2009. The Company is in discussions with banking supervisors to resolve their inquiries on these matters. 

Credit/Checkcard Expenses

Credit/checkcard expenses decreased $23 million or 36 percent in 2013 when compared to 2012. In the third quarter of 2012, the Company began recording credit card relationship reward costs as a reduction of credit card revenue.

Amortization of Core Deposit Intangible

Amortization of core deposit intangible decreased $55 million or 66 percent for 2013 when compared to 2012. Regions' annual 2012 impairment test reflected an increase in the estimated life of Regions' core deposit intangibles, which resulted in a decrease in amortization beginning in 2013. 

Other Real Estate Owned Expense

Other real estate owned (“OREO”) expense includes the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to estimated fair value after these assets have been classified as OREO, net gains and losses on sales of properties, and other costs to maintain the property such as property taxes, security, and grounds maintenance. OREO expense decreased $36 million or 69 percent during 2013 as compared to 2012. The decline in expense was due to lower OREO balances and stabilizing real estate values. See the "Foreclosed Properties" section for additional information.

57

Table of Contents 

Branch Consolidation and Property and Equipment Charges

Non-interest expense in 2013 included $5 million of branch consolidation charges related to lower of cost or market adjustments on owned branch property. The charges were driven by Regions' decision to consolidate 30 branches.

REIT Investment Early Termination Costs

On November 30, 2012, Regions entered into an agreement with a third party investor in Regions Asset Management Company, Inc., a real estate investment trust, pursuant to which the investment was fully redeemed. As a result, Regions incurred early termination costs of approximately $42 million.

(Gain)/Loss on Loans Held for Sale, Net

The Company recorded $31 million less in gains on loans held for sale for 2013 when compared to 2012. The decreased gains were due to lower balances of non-performing loans held for sale. See Table 20 "Non-Performing Loans Held For Sale" for an analysis.

Other Miscellaneous Expenses

Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $21 million for 2013 as compared to 2012. This item includes expenses for communications, postage, supplies and business development services.

INCOME TAXES

The Company’s income tax expense from continuing operations for 2013 was $452 million compared to an income tax expense of $482 million for the same period in 2012, resulting in effective tax rates of 28.5 percent and 29.0 percent, respectively. 

The Company’s effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such as affordable housing tax credits, bank-owned life insurance and tax-exempt income, which are expected to be generally consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period.

 At December 31, 2013, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $612 million, compared to $763 million at December 31, 2012. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset was primarily due to the continued reduction in the allowance for loan losses, the utilization of tax credit carryforwards and an increase in the deferred tax liability associated with lease financing, which were partially offset by an increase in the deferred tax asset for the unrealized losses on securities available for sale.

The Company continually assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets based on an evaluative process that considers all available positive and negative evidence. As part of this evaluative process, the Company considers the following sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax-planning strategies. In making a conclusion, the Company has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of evidence impacting the Company's judgment regarding the realization of its deferred tax assets are summarized below.

•History of earnings—In 2013, the Company has continued its positive earnings trend with positive earnings in 2013, 2012 and 2011 (excluding the impact of goodwill impairment in 2011), and is no longer in a three year cumulative loss position. The Company has utilized all federal net operating losses and in 2013, continued utilization of federal tax credit carryforwards. There is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused.

•Reversals of taxable temporary differences—The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in a prior business combination, can absorb up to approximately $752 million of deferred tax assets.

•Creation of future taxable income—The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences.

•Ability to implement tax-planning strategies—The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies such as asset sales to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets.

Based on this evaluative process, the Company has established a valuation allowance in the amount of $36 million at December 31, 2013 and $70 million at December 31, 2012 because the Company believes that a portion of the state net operating loss carryforwards and state tax credit carryforwards will not be utilized. The decrease of $34 million is principally due to the Company’s determination that certain state net operating loss carryforwards are more likely than not to be realized.

58

Table of Contents 

The Company has determined there will not be a material impact on consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position resulting from the final regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service regarding the deduction and capitalization of expenditures related to tangible property, which generally become effective in 2014.

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 19 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Morgan Keegan was sold on April 2, 2012. Regions' results from discontinued operations in 2013 was a loss of $13 million, compared to a loss of $59 million in 2012. For the year ended December 31, 2013, Regions reported a loss from discontinued operations of $(0.01) per diluted common share, compared to a loss from discontinued operations of $(0.04) per diluted common share for the year ended December 31, 2012. During 2013 and 2012, the loss from discontinued operations was primarily due to higher professional and legal expenses. 

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

At December 31, 2013, Regions reported total assets of $117.4 billion compared to $121.3 billion at the end of 2012, a decrease of approximately $4.0 billion or 3 percent. The decrease in total assets from year-end 2012 resulted primarily from a decrease in investment securities, as well as a decrease in other assets. Total investment securities declined approximately $3.4 billion, primarily related to management's strategic decision to reduce the size of the investment portfolio in the second quarter of 2013. Other assets declined between years primarily due to decreases in derivative assets, deferred income tax assets and prepaid expense balances. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits in other banks (including the Federal Reserve Bank), and Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell (which have a life of 90 days or less). At December 31, 2013, these assets totaled $5.3 billion as compared to $5.5 billion at December 31, 2012. The year-over-year decrease was driven by a decrease in cash and due from banks. 

Trading Account Securities

Trading account securities decreased approximately $5 million to $111 million at December 31, 2013. The trading account securities are primarily securities held in rabbi trusts related to deferred compensation plans. Trading account securities are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. 

Securities

Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. 

The “Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk” section, found later in this report, further explains Regions’ interest rate risk management practices. The weighted-average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 2.65 percent in 2013 and 2.57 percent in 2012. Table 7 “Securities” details the carrying values of securities, including both available for sale and held to maturity.

59

Table of Contents 

Table 7—Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Securities totaled $23.8 billion at December 31, 2013, a decrease of $3.4 billion from year-end 2012 levels. Regions maintains a highly rated securities portfolio consisting primarily of agency mortgage-backed securities. Throughout the recent economic cycle, financial institutions, including Regions, increased the size of their securities portfolio to offset the lack of loan growth in order to maintain an appropriate level of earning assets. However, Regions experienced $614 million in loan growth during 2013. This loan growth, combined with an outlook for continued moderate improvement in the economy and an eventual reduction in securities purchases by the Federal Reserve, led management to reduce the size of the investment portfolio during the second quarter of 2013. Total securities comprised approximately 23 percent and 25 percent of earning assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Additionally, approximately $2.4 billion in available for sale securities were transferred to held to maturity during the second quarter of 2013. These combined actions should allow Regions to continue to optimize its asset/liability profile while reducing future volatility related to other comprehensive income and the related impacts to tangible common equity.

Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in stockholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax. At December 31, 2013, securities available for sale included a net unrealized loss of $34 million, which represented the difference between the estimated fair value of these securities as of year-end and their amortized cost. The net unrealized loss represents $257 million in gross unrealized gains and $291 million in gross unrealized losses. Additionally, accumulated other comprehensive income included net pre-tax unrealized losses of $111 million related to the securities transferred to held to maturity at the date of the transfer. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $104 million of this pre-tax unrealized loss remains. At December 31, 2012, securities available for sale included a net unrealized gain of $701 million, comprised of $729 million in gross unrealized gains and $28 million in gross unrealized losses.

The Company reviews its securities portfolio on a regular basis to determine if there are any conditions indicating that a security has other-than-temporary impairment. Factors considered in this determination include the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost, the credit standing of the issuer, Regions’ intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security.

Maturity Analysis—The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2013 was estimated to be 4.9 years, with a duration of approximately 3.9 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 3.9 years, with a duration of approximately 2.7 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2012. Table 8 “Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities” provides additional details.

60

Table of Contents 

Table 8—Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)Federal Reserve Bank stock, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table.

(2)The weighted-average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted-average yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a taxable-equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Average tax-exempt securities were maintained at such a small balance in 2013 that the taxable-equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to zero for the year ended December 31, 2013. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non-deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax-exempt obligations.

Portfolio Quality—Regions’ investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 87 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2013. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented approximately 13 percent of total securities at year-end 2013.

Loans Held For Sale

During the fourth quarter of 2013, Regions transferred certain primarily accruing residential first mortgage loans classified as troubled debt restructurings ("TDRs") to loans held for sale. The book value of these loans was approximately $686 million and they were transferred into loans held for sale at the estimated fair value of $535 million with the $151 million difference reflected as a charge-off. Approximately $76 million of the charge-off was previously recorded in the allowance for loan and lease losses. The estimate of fair value includes the perspective of a market participant, considering among other things, required investor returns which include liquidity discounts that are precluded from inclusion in the allowance for loan and lease losses. 

At December 31, 2013, loans held for sale totaled $1.1 billion, consisting primarily of $963 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, including the recently transferred restructured loans, and $82 million of non-performing investor real estate loans. At December 31, 2012, loans held for sale totaled $1.4 billion, consisting primarily of $1.3 billion of residential real estate mortgage loans and $89 million of non-performing investor real estate loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale fluctuates depending on the timing of origination and sale to third parties.

Loans

GENERAL

Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 72 percent of average interest-earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to 71 percent for the year ended December 31, 2012. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial loans (including commercial and industrial, and owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgage 

61

Table of Contents 

and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans).

Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk-adjusted return on capital. Strategic decisions to grow the commercial and industrial portfolios through the company's specialized lending groups and the indirect automobile lending portfolios were the primary contributors to the increase in loans in 2013. The increase was partially offset by continued decreases in commercial investor real estate mortgage, the transfer of residential mortgage TDRs to held for sale, and the lower demand for home equity products.

Table 9 illustrates a year-over-year comparison of loans, net of unearned income, by portfolio segment and class and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities.

Table 9—Loan Portfolio

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Table 10—Selected Loan Maturities 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

62

Table of Contents 

_________

(1) Excludes $126 million of small business credit card accounts.

(2) Excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer loans.

PORTFOLIO CHARACTERISTICS

The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes in Table 9 and explain variations in balances from the 2012 year-end. See Note 5 “Loans” and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion.

Regions has a diversified loan portfolio, in terms of product type, collateral and geography. At December 31, 2013, commercial loans represented 53 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, investor real estate loans represented 9 percent, residential first mortgage loans totaled 16 percent, home equity lending totaled 15 percent, and other consumer loans comprised the remaining 7 percent. Following is a discussion of risk characteristics of each loan type.

Loans, net of unearned income, totaled $74.6 billion at December 31, 2013, an increase of $614 million from year-end 2012 levels. Continued growth in commercial and industrial, and indirect auto loan portfolios, along with increased commercial investor real estate construction loans, more than offset declines in investor real estate mortgage, commercial real estate mortgage, residential first mortgage and home equity lending during 2013.

Commercial—The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial and industrial loans increased $2.7 billion or 10% since year-end 2012 due to Regions’ integrated approach to specialized lending. Commercial also includes owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgage loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long-term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. These loans declined $600 million or 6% from year-end 2012 as a result of continued customer deleveraging. Owner-occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2013, total commercial loan balances increased approximately $2.1 billion, or 6%.

Investor Real Estate—Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions’ investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single-family and condominium loans) within Regions’ markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income-producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. The investor real estate loan segment declined $972 million from 2012 year-end balances primarily due to continued payoffs and pay downs.

Residential First Mortgage—Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced an $800 million or 6% decline from year-end 2012, primarily due to customers continuing to pay down real estate debt and the transfer of $686 million of primarily accruing residential first mortgages classified as TDRs to loans held for sale late in 2013. At the end of 2012, Regions began retaining 10 and 15 year fixed-rate mortgage production on the balance sheet which has slowed the pace of decline. Approximately $664 million of these 10 and 15-year fixed rate loans were retained on the balance sheet during 2013.

Home Equity—Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower’s residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. During 2013, home equity balances decreased $506 million to $11.3 billion, driven by continued consumer deleveraging and refinancing. 

Indirect—Indirect lending, which is lending initiated through third-party business partners, is largely comprised of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class increased $739 million from year-end 2012, reflecting continued growth from increased penetration of existing dealers and the expansion of the dealer network. Regions currently has 2,140 dealers in its network compared to just over 1,900 as of December 31, 2012.

Consumer Credit Card—During the second quarter of 2011, Regions completed the purchase of approximately $1.0 billion of existing Regions-branded consumer credit card accounts from FIA Card Services. The products are primarily open-ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. In the third quarter of 2012, Regions assumed the servicing of these loans from FIA Card Services. Consumer credit card balances increased $42 million to $948 million during 2013.

63

Table of Contents 

Other Consumer—Other consumer loans include direct consumer installment loans, overdrafts and other revolving loans. Other consumer loans totaled $1.2 billion at December 31, 2013, relatively unchanged from prior year end.

CREDIT QUALITY

Regions believes that its loan portfolio is well diversified by product, client, and geography throughout its footprint. However, the loan portfolio may be exposed to certain concentrations of credit risk which exist in relation to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers, certain types of collateral, certain types of industries, certain loan products, or certain regions of the country. 

Commercial

The commercial portfolio segment has generated the majority of the Company's loan growth in 2013, particularly commercial and industrial loans. The commercial portfolio segment made up approximately 53 percent of total loans at December 31, 2013, compared to 50 percent at December 31, 2012. The following table provides detail of Regions' commercial lending balances in selected industries as of December 31:

Table 11—Selected Industry Balances

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Investor Real Estate

Due to the nature of the cash flows typically used to repay investor real estate loans, these loans are particularly vulnerable to weak economic conditions as experienced over the past several years. As a result, this loan type has a higher risk of non-collection than other loans. 

The Company has made considerable efforts to de-risk its balance sheet. A primary focus has been reducing the Company's exposure in the investor real estate portfolio. Total investor real estate loans represented approximately 24 percent of total loans at December 31, 2008, and has been actively managed down to approximately 9 percent of total loans at December 31, 2013. 

Home Equity

Total home equity lending represented approximately 15 percent or $11.3 billion of total loans at December 31, 2013 and 16 percent or $11.8 billion at December 31, 2012. Losses in this portfolio generally track overall economic conditions. The main source of economic stress has been in Florida, where residential property values have declined significantly while unemployment 

64

Table of Contents 

rates remain high. Losses in Florida where Regions is in a second lien position are higher than first lien losses. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. 

The following tables provide details related to the home equity portfolio as of and for the years ended December 31:

Table 12—Selected Home Equity Portfolio Information

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________

(1) Net charge-off percentages are calculated as a percent of average balances.

Net charge-offs were 1.08 percent of home equity loans in 2013 compared to 1.90 percent in 2012. Losses in Florida-based credits remained at elevated levels, but the related net charge-off percentage decreased significantly to 1.81 percent in 2013 from 3.25 percent in 2012. Improving underwriting standards and stabilizing home values in Florida are contributing to this improvement.

Of the $11.3 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2013, approximately $9.2 billion were home equity lines of credit and $2.1 billion were closed-end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Beginning in May 2009, new home equity lines of credit have a 10-year draw period and a 10-year repayment period. Previously, home equity lines of credit had a 20-year term with a balloon payment upon maturity or a 5-year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term “balloon payment” means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest-only lines of credit. As of December 31, 2013, none of Regions' home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the contractual terms. The majority of home equity lines of credit will either mature with a balloon payment or convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020.

Of the $9.2 billion of home equity lines of credit at December 31, 2013, approximately 91 percent require monthly interest-only payments while the remaining approximately 9 percent require a payment equal to 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance, which would include some principal repayment. At December 31, 2013, approximately 30 percent of borrowers were only paying the minimum amount due on their home equity line. In addition, approximately 57 percent of home equity lines of credit balances have the option to amortize either all or a portion of their balance. At December 31, 2013, approximately $295 million of home equity line of credit balances have elected this option.

Regions is unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When Regions’ second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, Regions does not continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. Short sale offers and settlement agreements are often received by the home equity junior lien holders well before the loan balance reaches the delinquency threshold for charge-off consideration, potentially resulting in a full balance payoff/charge-off. Regions is presently monitoring the status of all first lien position loans that the Company owns or services and has a second lien, and is taking appropriate action when delinquent. Regions services the first lien on approximately 23 percent of the entire second lien home equity portfolio as of December 31, 2013. During 2012, Regions evaluated a means to monitor non-Regions-serviced first liens using a third-party service provider. While the data was not conclusive, there was no reason to believe that the results related to the non-Regions-serviced first liens would be significantly different than that of the portfolio which Regions services.

65

Table of Contents 

Other Consumer Credit Quality Data

The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both home equity and residential first mortgage lending products (“current LTV”). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by a third party. The third party data indicates trends for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (“MSAs”). Regions uses the third party valuation trends from the MSAs in the Company's footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area.

The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential first mortgage and home equity classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for the remaining loans in the portfolio is not available, primarily because some of the loans are serviced by others. Data may also not be available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. For purposes of the table below, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral, the entire balance is included in the “Above 100%” category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. The balances in the "Above 100%" category as a percentage of the portfolio balances decreased in the residential first mortgage portfolio from 13 percent to 6 percent, while home equity declined from 17 percent to 13 percent, as of December 31, 2013. 

Table 13—Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Regions qualitatively considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of Regions' formal underwriting process. Refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for all revolving accounts and home equity lines of credit and semi-annually for all other consumer loans. Regions considers FICO scores less than 620 to be indicative of higher credit risk and obtains additional collateral in most of these instances. The following table presents estimated current FICO score data for components of classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current FICO data is not available for the remaining loans in the portfolio for various reasons; for example, if customers do not use sufficient credit, an updated score may not be available. Residential first mortgage and home equity balances with FICO scores below 620 declined to 7 percent of the combined portfolios for December 31, 2013, down 1 percent from December 31, 2012.

Table 14—Estimated Current FICO Score Ranges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

66

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses ("allowance") consists of two components: the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. The allowance represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of period end. Regions determines its allowance in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Additional discussion of the methodology used to calculate the allowance is included in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements, as well as related discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

The allowance for loan losses totaled $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013 and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2012. The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of net loans was 1.80 percent at December 31, 2013 and 2.59 percent at December 31, 2012. The reserve for unfunded credit commitments was $78 million at December 31, 2013 compared to $83 million at December 31, 2012. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans were 0.96 percent and 1.37 percent in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Net charge-offs were lower across most categories, particularly in the case of commercial investor real estate mortgage as a result of the ongoing portfolio de-risking and fundamental improvement in credit performance. Net charge-offs for residential first mortgage included $151 million related to the transfer of primarily accruing loans classified as troubled debt restructurings to held for sale late in 2013. The provision for loan losses totaled $138 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $213 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Net charge-offs exceeded the provision for loan losses for 2013, primarily resulting from continued improving credit metrics such as lower levels of non-accrual and criticized and classified loans, as well as, problem loan resolutions and a continuing mix shift in loans out of higher risk investor real estate and into less risky commercial and industrial loans.

Management considers the current level of the allowance appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios. Management’s determination of the appropriateness of the allowance requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance to be increased or decreased in future periods. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates.

Management expects that net loan charge-offs in 2014 will continue to improve compared to 2013. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment will impact the future levels of net charge-offs and provision and may result in volatility during 2014. Additionally, changes in circumstances related to individually large credits or certain portfolios may result in volatility. Details regarding the allowance and net charge-offs, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s totals, are included in Table 15 “Allowance for Credit Losses.”

67

Table of Contents 

The table below summarizes activity in the allowance for credit losses for the years ended December 31:

Table 15—Allowance for Credit Losses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

68

Table of Contents 

Allocation of the allowance for loan losses by portfolio segment and class is summarized as follows:

Table 16—Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

69

Table of Contents 

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs)

Residential first mortgage, home equity, consumer credit card, indirect and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the Customer Assistance Program. Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modification was offered as a workout alternative. Renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, because the existing terms are considered to be below market. More detailed information is included in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes TDRs for the periods ending December 31:

Table 17—Troubled Debt Restructurings

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

Note: All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. The majority of TDRs held for sale at December 31, 2013 were comprised of residential first mortgage loans transfered during the fourth quarter.

70

Table of Contents 

NON-PERFORMING ASSETS

The following table presents non-performing assets as of December 31: 

Table 18—Non-Performing Assets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)Excludes accruing loans 90 days past due.

(2)Excludes residential first mortgage loans that are 100% guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and also those 100% guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) where Regions has the right but not the obligation to repurchase. Total 90 days or more past due guaranteed loans excluded were $106 million at December 31, 2013, $87 million at December 31, 2012, $14 million at December 31, 2011, $8 million at December 31, 2010 and $12 million at December 31, 2009. 

Non-performing assets totaled $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013, compared to $1.9 billion at December 31, 2012. Foreclosed properties, a subset of non-performing assets, totaled $136 million and $149 million at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 

71

Table of Contents 

2012, respectively. The decrease in non-performing assets and foreclosed properties during 2013 reflects the Company’s continuing efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures.

Based on current expectations for the economy, management anticipates non-performing assets to continue to improve in 2014 as compared to 2013. Economic trends such as real estate valuations, interest rates and unemployment, as well as the level of disposition activity, will impact the future level of non-performing assets. Circumstances related to individually large credits could also result in volatility throughout 2014.

Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing were $256 million at December 31, 2013, a decrease from $363 million at December 31, 2012.

At December 31, 2013, Regions had approximately $150-$250 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non-accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. This is a likely estimate of the amount of commercial and investor real estate loans that may migrate to non-accrual status in the next quarter.

In order to arrive at the estimate of potential problem loans, personnel from geographic regions forecast certain larger dollar loans that may potentially be downgraded to non-accrual at a future time, depending on the occurrence of future events. These personnel consider a variety of factors, including the borrower’s capacity and willingness to meet the contractual repayment terms, make principal curtailments or provide additional collateral when necessary, and provide current and complete financial information including global cash flows, contingent liabilities and sources of liquidity. A probability weighting is assigned to the listing of loans due to the inherent level of uncertainty related to potential actions that a borrower or guarantor may take to prevent the loan from reaching problem status. Regions assigns the probability weighting based on an assessment of the likelihood that the necessary actions required to prevent problem loan status will occur. Additionally, for other loans (for example, smaller dollar loans), a factor based on trends and experience is applied to determine the estimate of potential future downgrades. Because of the inherent uncertainty in forecasting future events, the estimate of potential problem loans ultimately represents the estimated aggregate dollar amounts of loans as opposed to an individual listing of loans.

The majority of the loans on which the potential problem loan estimate is based are considered criticized and classified. Detailed disclosures for substandard accrual loans (as well as other credit quality metrics) are included in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

The following table provides an analysis of non-accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment for the years ended December 31:

Table 19—Analysis of Non-Accrual Loans

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

72

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________

(1)All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale (including related charge-offs) is included as a single net number within the additions line, due to the relative immateriality of consumer non-accrual loans.

(2)Includes charge-offs on loans on non-accrual status and charge-offs taken upon sale and transfer of non-accrual loans to held for sale.

(3)Transfers to held for sale are shown net of charge-offs of $93 million and $163 million recorded upon transfer for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

The following table provides an analysis of non-performing loans held for sale for the years ended December 31:

Table 20—Non-Performing Loans Held For Sale

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For additional discussion, see Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

Premises and Equipment

Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, as applicable. Premises and equipment at December 31, 2013 decreased $63 million to $2.2 billion compared to year-end 2012. This decrease primarily resulted from depreciation expense on existing assets.

Goodwill

Goodwill totaled $4.8 billion at both December 31, 2013 and 2012 and was reallocated to the new reporting units during 2012. Refer to the “Critical Accounting Policies” section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Company’s methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 9 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test and further details on the reallocation. Additionally, Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements includes information related to the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such measurements, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment.

73

Table of Contents 

Mortgage Servicing Rights

Mortgage servicing rights at December 31, 2013 totaled $297 million compared to $191 million at December 31, 2012. The year-over-year increase of $106 million reflects organic growth, the increase in mortgage interest rates in 2013, and was due in part to the addition of $28 million related to a purchase of rights to service residential mortgage loans that was made during the first quarter of 2013. An analysis of mortgage servicing rights is presented in Note 7 “Servicing of Financial Assets” to the consolidated financial statements. The balances shown represent the right to service mortgage loans that are owned by other investors and are presented at fair value. Data and assumptions used in the fair value calculation, as well as certain sensitivity estimates, are also presented in Note 7.

Other Identifiable Intangible Assets

Other identifiable intangible assets totaled $295 million at December 31, 2013 compared to $345 million at December 31, 2012. The year-over-year decrease was due to amortization of core deposit intangibles and the purchased credit card intangibles. See Note 9 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for further information.

Foreclosed Properties

Other real estate and certain other assets acquired in foreclosure are reported at the lower of the investment in the loan or fair value of the property less estimated costs to sell. The following table summarizes foreclosed property activity for the years ended December 31:

Table 21—Foreclosed Properties

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

Note: Approximately 76 percent and 96 percent of the ending balances at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, relate to properties transferred into foreclosed properties during the corresponding calendar year.

Valuation adjustments are primarily recorded in other non-interest expense; adjustments are also recorded as a charge to the allowance for loan losses if incurred within 60 days after the date of transfer from loans. Valuation adjustments are primarily the cost of adjusting foreclosed properties to estimated fair value after these assets have been classified as foreclosed properties. Foreclosed property sold represents the net book value of the properties sold.

Other Assets

Other assets decreased $326 million to $5.8 billion as of December 31, 2013. Lower derivative assets, prepaid expense balances and deferred income taxes primarily drove the decrease. These declines were partially offset by additional investments in bank-owned life insurance and affordable housing.

74

Table of Contents 

Deposits

Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions’ ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers’ needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high-quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking.

Deposits are Regions’ primary source of funds, providing funding for 89 percent of average interest-earning assets in 2013 and 88 percent of average interest-earning assets in 2012. Table 22 “Deposits” details year-over-year deposits on a period-ending basis. Total deposits at December 31, 2013 decreased approximately $3.0 billion compared to year-end 2012 levels. The decrease in deposits was primarily driven by the continued runoff of time deposits in the low interest rate environment as customers sought higher yields, as well as customers diversifying their deposits in response to the expiration of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's (FDIC) Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) Program. The TAG Program fully insured non-interest-bearing transaction accounts beyond the $250 thousand deposit insurance limit, and expired on January 1, 2013. 

Due to liquidity in the market, Regions has been able to steadily grow its low-cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 49 basis points in 2011 to 30 basis points in 2012 and to 15 basis points in 2013. The following table summarizes deposits by category as of December 31:

Table 22—Deposits

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Within customer deposits, non-interest-bearing demand deposits increased $120 million to $30.1 billion. Non-interest-bearing deposits accounted for approximately 33 percent of total deposits at year-end 2013 compared to 31 percent at year-end 2012. Savings balances increased $290 million to $6.1 billion, generally reflecting continued consumer savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Interest-bearing transaction accounts declined $307 million to $20.8 billion. Interest-bearing transaction deposits accounted for approximately 23 percent of total deposits at year-end 2013 compared to 22 percent at year-end 2012.

Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions’ most significant funding sources. These balances increased 3 percent in 2013 to $25.6 billion or 28 percent of total deposits, compared to 26 percent of total deposits in 2012 reflecting a shift in the mix of deposits.

Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 29 percent in 2013 to $9.6 billion compared to $13.4 billion in 2012. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of the continued decline in rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 10 percent of total deposits in 2013 compared to 14 percent in 2012. Table 23 “Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More” presents maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2013 and 2012.

Consistent with 2012, corporate treasury deposits, which are used mainly for overnight funding purposes, remained at low levels in 2013 as the Company continued to utilize customer-based funding and other sources. The Company’s choice of overnight funding sources is dependent on the Company’s particular funding needs and the relative attractiveness of each source.

The sensitivity of Regions’ deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions’ average interest rate paid on interest-bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest-bearing deposits decreased to 0.21 percent in 2013 from 0.43 percent in 2012, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower cost customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout much of 2013. 

75

Table of Contents 

Table 23—Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Short-Term Borrowings

See Note 11 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2013 and 2012. Short-term borrowings totaled $2.2 billion at December 31, 2013, compared to $1.6 billion at December 31, 2012. The levels of these borrowings can fluctuate depending on the Company’s funding needs and the sources utilized, as well as a result of customers’ activity. 

COMPANY FUNDING SOURCES

Federal funds purchased used for funding purposes totaled $11 million at December 31, 2013 compared to $21 million at December 31, 2012. In the near term, Regions expects the use of wholesale unsecured borrowings, such as Federal funds purchased, to remain low. Short-term secured borrowings, such as securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") advances, are a core portion of Regions funding strategy and can fluctuate significantly on a day-to-day basis, depending on funding needs and which sources of funds are used to satisfy those needs. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings.

Due to the uncertainty and inconsistency of the short-term funding markets during the recession, Regions had taken an approach to maintain higher levels of cash at the Federal Reserve Bank. These higher levels of cash negated the need to occasionally borrow short-term funds to cover normal monthly cash flow needs. As the economy continues to improve, Regions has reduced the amount of excess cash held at the Federal Reserve Bank and will utilize short-term secured funding markets as needed to augment its cash position. The securities financing market and short-term FHLB advances continue to provide reliable funding at attractive rates. There were no short-term FHLB advances outstanding at December 31, 2013 or December 31, 2012. See the "Liquidity" section for further detail of Regions' borrowing capacity with the FHLB.

Table 24 provides selected information for certain short-term borrowings used for funding purposes as of and for the year ended December 31:

76

Table of Contents 

Table 24—Selected Short-Term Borrowings Data  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CUSTOMER-RELATED BORROWINGS

Short-term borrowings that are the result of customer activity related to investment opportunities totaled $2.2 billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. 

Repurchase agreements are also offered as short-term investment opportunities for commercial banking customers. At the end of each business day, customer balances are swept into the agreement account. In exchange for cash, Regions sells the customer securities with a commitment to repurchase them on the following business day. The repurchase agreements are collateralized to allow for market fluctuations. Securities from Regions Bank’s investment portfolio are used as collateral. From the customer’s perspective, the investment earns more than a traditional money market instrument. From Regions’ standpoint, the repurchase agreements are similar to deposit accounts, although they are not insured by the FDIC or guaranteed either directly by the United States or one of its agencies. Regions Bank does not manage the level of these investments on a daily basis as the transactions are initiated by the customers. The level of these borrowings can fluctuate significantly on a day-to-day basis.

Customer collateral reported as short-term borrowings was zero at December 31, 2013 and $125 million at December 31, 2012. These balances represent cash collateral posted by customers related to derivative transactions. Regions began netting cash collateral, subject to enforceable master netting agreements, against the net derivative asset or liability beginning in 2013.

Long-term borrowings

Regions’ long-term borrowings consist primarily of FHLB borrowings, senior notes, subordinated notes and other long-term notes payable. Total long-term borrowings decreased $1.0 billion to $4.8 billion at December 31, 2013. The decrease between years was the result of approximately $750 million in maturities of senior and subordinated notes, a tender offer for $350 million in senior notes and the redemption or extinguishment of $498 million of junior subordinated notes and $118 million of other long-term debt. Pre-tax losses on these extinguishments totaled $61 million, $29 million of which was not deductible for income tax purposes. These decreases were partially offset by a $750 million issuance of senior notes. The weighted-average interest rate on total long-term debt, including the effect of derivative instruments, was 4.8 percent, 4.7 percent and 3.3 percent for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. See Note 12 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates.

Other Liabilities

Other liabilities decreased $776 million to $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2013. The decrease was primarily driven by lower derivative liabilities and accrued employee benefit costs. The decrease in derivative liabilities was primarily due to Regions beginning to net cash collateral, subject to enforceable master netting agreements, against the net derivative asset or liability beginning in 2013. See Note 20 "Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities" for additional information.

77

Table of Contents 

Ratings

Table 25 “Credit Ratings” reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by Standard and Poor's ("S&P"), Moody’s, Fitch and Dominion Bond Rating Service ("DBRS") as of December 31, 2013 and 2012.

Table 25—Credit Ratings

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions’ access to the capital markets or short-term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, and funding of variable rate demand notes ("VRDNs"), thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions’ financial condition and liquidity. See the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.

On June 20, 2013, S&P revised Regions' outlook from stable to positive while affirming its current ratings for both the holding company and bank. The outlook revision and affirmation reflects improvement in earnings performance, core capital position, and maintenance of a strong liquidity profile. In announcing their change in outlook, S&P also cited benefits of a strengthening economy and a more stable business position for Regions. This is another important step in returning Regions' credit ratings to more competitive levels.

With this revision, both S&P and Fitch now have positive outlooks on Regions. Regions continues to proactively work with the agencies to ensure they have a full and complete understanding of the progress the Company is making in restoring its financial performance. 

During 2013, Regions redeemed all of its junior subordinated notes; therefore, the ratings table above has been adjusted accordingly.

78

Table of Contents 

A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

Stockholders' Equity

Stockholders’ equity was $15.8 billion at December 31, 2013 compared to $15.5 billion at December 31, 2012. During 2013, net income increased stockholders’ equity by $1.1 billion, while shares repurchased reduced equity by $340 million and cash dividends on common stock reduced equity by $138 million. Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income decreased equity by $384 million, primarily due to unrealized losses on securities available for sale.

On March 19, 2012, Regions issued 153 million shares of common stock at $5.90 per share. The proceeds from the sale, net of issuance costs, increased equity by approximately $875 million. 

On April 4, 2012, Regions repurchased all 3.5 million shares of Series A preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury and in early May of 2012, Regions repurchased the related warrant from the U.S. Treasury. Therefore, there was $125 million in preferred dividends and discount accretion in 2012.

On November 1, 2012, Regions issued $500 million in depositary shares each representing a fractional ownership interest in a share of the Company’s 6.375% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, par value $1.00 per share. The net proceeds from the issuance increased equity by approximately $486 million. Cash dividends on preferred stock reduced equity by $32 million in 2013 and $4 million in 2012.

Regions increased its annual dividend to $0.10 per common share for 2013, compared to $0.04 per common share for both 2012 and 2011. Regions understands the importance of returning capital to shareholders. Management will continue to execute the capital planning process, including evaluation of the amount of the common stock dividend, with the Board of Directors and in conjunction with regulatory supervisors, subject to the Company’s results of operations.

As part of its 2013 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review ("CCAR") submission, Regions' proposed capital plans included up to $350 million in common share repurchases. The Federal Reserve did not object to these plans, and Regions' Board of Directors approved the share repurchase plan. The share repurchase authority granted by the Board of Directors was available from the beginning of the second quarter of 2013 and will continue through the first quarter of 2014. As of December 31, 2013, Regions had repurchased approximately 36 million shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $340 million. These shares were immediately retired upon repurchase and therefore are not included in treasury stock.

Regions’ ratio of stockholders’ equity to total assets was 13.43 percent at December 31, 2013 and 12.77 percent at December 31, 2012. Regions’ ratio of tangible common stockholders’ equity (stockholder's equity less preferred stock, goodwill and other identifiable intangibles and the related deferred tax liability) to total tangible assets was 9.24 percent at December 31, 2013, compared to 8.63 percent at December 31, 2012 (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further discussion).

See Note 14 “Stockholders’ Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)” for further information.

REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 

CURRENT CAPITAL RULES

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of the Company’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. Currently, there are two basic measures of capital adequacy: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure. See Note 13 "Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions" for further discussions of these measures and tabular presentation of the applicable holding company and bank regulatory capital requirements.

In recent years, the Federal Reserve and banking regulators began supplementing their assessment of the capital adequacy of a bank based on a variation of Tier 1 capital, known as Tier 1 common equity. This measure has been a key component of assessments of capital adequacy under the CCAR process. While not currently prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations (under Basel I), analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions’ capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders’ equity and/or the Tier 1 common equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders’ equity and Tier 1 common equity are not formally defined by GAAP or prescribed in amount by federal banking regulations (under Basel I), these measures are currently considered to be non-GAAP financial measures and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed 

79

Table of Contents 

calculations (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further details). The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System assesses banks' capital levels in periods of stress against a minimum Tier 1 common (non-GAAP) capital level of 5 percent.

BASEL III AND THE NEW CAPITAL RULES 

In July 2013, Regions' and Regions Bank's primary federal regulator, the Federal Reserve, published final rules (the “New Capital Rules”) establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. The New Capital Rules implement the Basel Committee's December 2010 framework known as “Basel III” for strengthening international capital standards as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The New Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and depository institutions, including the Company and the Bank, compared to the current U.S. risk-based capital rules. The New Capital Rules define the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios. The New Capital Rules also address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing risk-weighting approach, which was derived from Basel I capital accords of the Basel Committee, with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the standardized approach in the Basel Committee's 2004 “Basel II” capital accords. The New Capital Rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal banking agencies' rules. The New Capital Rules are effective for Regions and Regions Bank on January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period).

The New Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a new capital measure called “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”), (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consist of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments to capital as compared to existing regulations.

Under the New Capital Rules, the initial minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2015 will be as follows:

•4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets.

•6.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets.

•8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.

The New Capital Rules also introduce a new capital conservation buffer designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. The capital conservation buffer is composed entirely of CET1, on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. In addition, the New Capital Rules provide for a countercyclical capital buffer applicable only to certain covered institutions. It is not expected that the countercyclical capital buffer will be applicable to Regions or Regions Bank. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. 

When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the New Capital Rules will require Regions and Regions Bank to maintain such additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1, effectively resulting in minimum ratios of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%, and (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%.

The New Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, certain deferred tax assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Under current capital standards, the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income items included in capital are excluded for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. Under the New Capital Rules, the effects of certain accumulated other comprehensive items are not excluded; however, non-advanced approaches banking organizations, including Regions and Regions Bank, may make a one-time permanent election to continue to exclude these items. Regions and Regions Bank expect to make this election in order to avoid significant variations in the level of capital depending upon the impact of interest rate fluctuations on the fair value of its securities portfolio. As previously mentioned, the New Capital Rules also preclude certain hybrid securities, such as trust preferred securities, as Tier 1 capital of bank holding companies, subject to phase-out. As of December 31, 2013, Regions did not have any remaining hybrid securities subject to disallowance.

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 will begin on January 1, 2015 and will be phased-in over a 4-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter). The implementation of the capital 

80

Table of Contents 

conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and be phased in over a 4-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).

With respect to Regions Bank, the New Capital Rules also revise the “prompt corrective action” regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by (i) introducing a CET1 ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the current 6%); and (iii) eliminating the current provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized. The New Capital Rules do not change the total risk-based capital requirement for any “prompt corrective action” category.

The New Capital Rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weightings that expands the risk-weighting categories from the current four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. Specific changes to current rules impacting Regions' determination of risk-weighted assets include, among other things:

•Applying a 150% risk weight instead of a 100% risk weight for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction loans.

•Assigning a 150% risk weight to exposures (other than secured exposures including residential mortgage exposures) that are 90 days or more past due (currently set at 100%).

•Providing for a 20% credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a commitment with an original maturity of one year or less that is not unconditionally cancellable (currently set at 0%). 

•Providing for a risk weight, generally not less than 20% with certain exceptions, for securities lending transactions based on the risk weight category of the underlying collateral securing the transaction (currently set at between 20% and 100% for on balance sheet transactions).

•Providing for a 100% risk weight for claims on securities firms (currently set at 20%).

•Eliminating the current 50% cap on the risk weight for over-the-counter derivative exposures.

•Replacing the existing Ratings Based Approach for certain asset-backed securities with a Simplified Supervisory Framework Approach ("SSFA") which results in risk weights ranging from 20% to 1,250%.

•Applying a 250% risk weight to the portion of mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are includible in capital (currently set at 100%).

In addition, the New Capital Rules also provide more advantageous risk weights for derivatives and repurchase-style transactions cleared through a qualifying central counterparty and increase the scope of eligible guarantors and eligible collateral for purposes of credit risk mitigation. As of December 31, 2013, the increase in Regions' Basel III risk-weighted assets versus risk-weighted assets as calculated under Basel I was due primarily to:

•Applying a 20% conversion factor to the unused portion of commitments of less than one year.

•Applying a 250% risk weight to the portion of mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets that are includible in capital.

•Applying a 150% risk weight to high volatility commercial real estate exposures.

The New Capital Rules do not address the proposed Liquidity Coverage Ratio Test and Net Stable Funding Ratio Test called for by the proposed Basel III framework. See the "Supervision and Regulation -- Capital Requirements -- Leverage Requirements" subsection of the "Business" section for more information on these proposed requirements.

Regions is currently evaluating the impact of the final U.S. rules implementing Basel III as well as any potential future SIFI surcharges for regional banks. The Company’s estimated CET1 ratio as of December 31, 2013, based on Regions’ current interpretation of the final Basel III requirements was approximately 10.58 percent and therefore exceeded the Basel III minimum 

81

Table of Contents 

of 7 percent for CET1. Because the Basel III capital calculations will not be fully phased-in until 2019, are not formally defined by GAAP, and because the calculations currently include the Company's interpretations of the requirements including informal feedback received through the regulatory process and are therefore likely to change as clarifying guidance becomes available, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures, and other entities may calculate them differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further details).

LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO

In January 2013, the Basel Committee published an update that included revisions to the LCR calculation. Also included in this update were provisions concerning, among other things, lower deposit run-off assumptions and full implementation on a phased-in schedule. On October 24, 2013, the Federal Reserve released an NPR (notice of proposed rulemaking) and introduced a "modified" LCR that will apply to banks including Regions, who are not internationally active and are between $50 billion and $250 billion in assets. Based on Regions' current understanding and interpretation of the rules for the calculation of the LCR, full implementation will still be based on a phased-in schedule but in a more condensed timeframe that is 2 years shorter than the Basel committee version. Starting in 2015, institutions will be required to be at a minimum compliance ratio of 80 percent, in 2016 the minimum would increase to 90 percent, and full compliance with the 100 percent minimum requirement must be reached in 2017. Regions continues to review these proposals and their impact on the calculation of the LCR. The Company anticipates being fully compliant with the LCR requirements upon finalization and implementation. However, should Regions’ cash position or investment mix change in the future, Regions’ ability to meet the liquidity coverage ratio may be impacted. The comment period on these proposed rules ended on January 31, 2014.

See the “Supervision and Regulation—Capital Requirements” subsection of the “Business” section and the “Risk Factors” section for more information.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Regions has certain interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities (i.e., Regions is not the primary beneficiary). Regions owned the common stock of subsidiary business trusts, which had issued mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities (“trust preferred securities”). During the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first nine months of 2013, Regions redeemed all of its issued and outstanding trust preferred securities. These trusts met the definition of a variable interest entity of which Regions was not the primary beneficiary; the trusts’ only assets were junior subordinated debentures issued by Regions, which were acquired by the trusts using the proceeds from the issuance of the trust preferred securities and common stock. These junior subordinated debentures were also fully redeemed during 2013. Prior to the redemption, these junior subordinated debentures were included in long-term borrowings and Regions’ equity interests in the business trusts were included in other assets.

Also, Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. Regions’ maximum exposure to loss as of December 31, 2013 was $863 million, which included $267 million in unfunded commitments to the partnerships. Additionally, Regions has short-term construction loans or letters of credit commitments with the partnerships totaling $227 million as of December 31, 2013. The funded portion of these loans and letters of credit was $110 million at December 31, 2013. The funded portion is included with loans on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 2 “Variable Interest Entities” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity-to-assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation.

Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions’ ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the Company’s interest rate positioning. The Company is moderately asset sensitive as of December 31, 2013. Refer to Table 26 “Interest Rate Sensitivity” for additional details on Regions’ interest rate sensitivity.

82

Table of Contents 

EFFECTS OF DEFLATION

A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings.

Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions’ ability to maintain a sufficient amount of capital to cushion against future losses. However, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop.

RISK MANAGEMENT

Regions is exposed to various risks as part of the normal course of operations. The exposure to risk requires sound risk management practices that comprise an integrated and comprehensive set of programs and processes that apply to the entire Company. Accordingly, Regions has established a risk management framework to manage risks and provide reasonable assurance of the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives. 

The primary risk exposures identified and managed through the Company’s risk management framework are market risk (including related interest rate risk and prepayment risk), liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk (including information security risk), legal risk, compliance risk, reputational risk, and strategic risk. Market risk is the risk that values of assets and liabilities or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions, such as interest rate movements (interest rate risk) and the associated impact on prepayments (prepayment risk). Interest rate risk is the risk to net interest income due to the impact of movements in interest rates. Prepayment risk is the risk that borrowers may repay their loans or other debt earlier than at their stated maturities. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will be unable to meet obligations as they come due in the normal course of business without undue hardship or incurring unacceptable losses. Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet a contractual obligation. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events. Legal risk reflects the inherent legal risk arising out of the daily banking and other operations of the Company that could result in disputes, threatened and/or actual litigation, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties, enforcement actions, or reputational damage. Compliance risk is the risk of failure or perceived failure to comply with the laws, regulations and standards that govern the activities of the Company. Reputational risk is the risk that negative publicity regarding the Company’s conduct or business practices will adversely affect its profitability, operations or customer base, or result in litigation. Strategic risk is the risk to the Company due to uncertainty and actions (or inaction) related to strategic risk factors, including negative effects from business planning or decisions, environmental changes, competitive dynamics, or management of our resources and activities. Several of these primary risk exposures are expanded upon further within the remaining sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis.

Regions’ risk management framework is founded on three pillars, each of which is critical to ensuring that risks are properly identified, assessed, and managed:

Three Lines of Defense - All associates are risk owners and serve as the first line of defense in the identification and mitigation of risks. The Risk Management Group independently assesses Company and industry risks in support of the business groups and serves as the second line of defense. Assurance functions (Credit Review, Internal Audit, and Model Validation) serve as the third line of defense and play a key role in ensuring risk identification and mitigation.

Enterprise Risk Management Governance - Regions has established a corporate governance framework consisting of committees, working groups, processes and procedures that are collectively charged with identifying, measuring, mitigating, monitoring and reporting risks. 

Continuous Improvement Cycle - Regions has established the continuous improvement cycle to drive its associates to targeted risk management levels by ensuring risks are identified, measured, mitigated, monitored and reported.

The Board of Directors provides the highest level of risk management governance. The principal risk management functions of the Board are to oversee processes for evaluating the adequacy of internal controls, risk management, financial reporting and compliance with laws and regulations. The Board has designated an Audit Committee of outside directors to focus on oversight of management's establishment and maintenance of appropriate disclosure controls and procedures over financial reporting. See the "Financial Disclosures and Internal Controls" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information. The Board has also designated a Risk Committee of outside directors to focus on Regions’ overall risk profile. The committee 

83

Table of Contents 

annually approves a Risk Appetite Statement that reflects core business principles and strategic vision and provides the foundations of corporate risk appetite, which is the aggregate amount of risk the Company is willing to accept in pursuit of its mission. By establishing boundaries around risk taking and business decisions, and by incorporating the needs and goals of its shareholders, regulators, customers and other stakeholders, the Company’s risk appetite is aligned with its priorities and goals. 

The Risk Management Group, led by the Company’s Chief Risk Officer, ensures the consistent application of Regions’ risk management approach within the structure of the Company’s operating, capital and strategic plans. The primary activities of the Risk Management Group include:

•Deciphering internal and external signals that point to possible risk issues for the Company;

•Identifying risks and determining which Company areas and/or products will be affected;

•Ensuring there are mechanisms in place to specifically determine how risks will affect the Company as a whole and the individual area and or product;

•Assisting Business Groups in analyzing trends and ensuring Company areas have appropriate risk identification and mitigation processes in place; and

•Reviewing the limits, policies, and procedures in place to ensure the continued appropriateness of risk controls.

As part of its ongoing assessment process, the Risk Management Group makes recommendations to management and the Risk Committee of the Board regarding adjustments to these controls as conditions or risk tolerances change. In addition, the Internal Audit division provides an independent assessment of the Company’s internal control structure and related systems and processes. 

Management, with the assistance of the Risk Management Group, follows a formal process for identifying and documenting key risks facing each business group and determining how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, as well as how the controls can be monitored to ensure they are effective. The Risk Committee receives reports from management to ensure operations are within the parameters established by the Committee’s Risk Appetite Statement. 

Some of the more significant processes used by management to manage and control risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond management’s control may result in losses despite the Risk Management Group’s efforts.

MARKET RISK—INTEREST RATE RISK 

Regions’ primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income sensitivity is a useful short-term indicator of Regions’ interest rate risk.

Sensitivity Measurement—Financial simulation models are Regions’ primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions’ balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate-related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the lag time in pricing deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior.

The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on “market forward rates.” The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 50 basis points scenario, as minus 100 and 200 basis scenarios are of limited use in the current rate environment. Up-rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six-month period, and include rate shifts of minus 50 basis points and plus 100 and 200 basis points.

Exposure to Interest Rate Movements—As of December 31, 2013, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous parallel yield curve shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending December 2014. 

84

Table of Contents 

The estimated exposure associated with the parallel yield curve shift of minus 50 basis points in the table below reflects the combined impacts of movements in short-term and long-term rates. Long-term interest rate reductions will drive yields lower on certain fixed rate loans newly originated or renewed, and on prospective yields of certain investment portfolio purchases, as well as drive higher amortization of premium on existing securities in the investment portfolio. The decline in short-term interest rates (such as the Fed Funds rate and the rate of Interest on Excess Reserves) will lead to a reduction of yield on assets and liabilities contractually tied to such rates, but since rates have been at low levels for such an extended period, it is expected that declines in deposit costs will only partially offset the decline in asset yields. 

Long-term interest rates have exhibited volatility over the second half of 2013 after rising significantly in the first half, but short-term rates have remained stable. As described above, with respect to sensitivity to long-term rates, the balance sheet is estimated to be asset sensitive. The primary factors are that higher long-term rates will drive higher rates on loans and securities newly originated or renewed, as well as induce a slower pace of premium amortization on certain securities within the investment portfolio. Current simulation models estimate that, as compared to the base case, net interest income over a 12 month horizon would respond favorably by approximately $102 million if long-term rates were to immediately and on a sustained basis exceed the base scenario by 100 basis points. Similarly, if long-term rates were to immediately and on a sustained basis underperform the base case by 50 basis points, then net interest income, as compared to the base case, would decline by approximately $99 million. 

The table below summarizes Regions' positioning in various parallel yield curve shifts. The scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate risk hedging activities. 

Table 26—Interest Rate Sensitivity 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions’ securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of stockholders’ equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). 

Derivatives—Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. The Asset and Liability Committee (“ALCO”), which consists of members of Regions’ senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks.

Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed-upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Company's customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform.

85

Table of Contents 

Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed-rate funding position to a variable-rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable-rate loan portfolio to fixed-rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held-for-sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing.

Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non-dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and/or posted to that counterparty. The “Credit Risk” section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk.

Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations.

The primary objective of Regions’ hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions’ execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 20 “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities” to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions’ year-end derivatives positions and further discussion.

Regions accounts for mortgage servicing rights at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Regions enters into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to mortgage servicing rights. Derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions’ current portfolio.

MARKET RISK—PREPAYMENT RISK 

Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage-related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower-yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions’ interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions’ greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage-backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed-rate loan portfolio and the mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Each of these assets is also exposed to prepayment risk due to factors which are not necessarily the result of interest rates, but rather due to changes in policies or programs related, either directly or indirectly, to the U.S. Government's governance over certain lending and financing within the mortgage market. Such policies can work to either encourage or discourage financing dynamics and represent a risk that is extremely difficult to forecast and may be the result of non-economic factors. The Company attempts to monitor and manage such exposures within reasonable expectations while acknowledging all such risks cannot be foreseen or avoided. Further, Regions has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non-interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because current interest rates are relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that are expected to coincide with increasing interest rates in both the loan and securities portfolio. 

LIQUIDITY RISK

Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions’ ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. Regions intends to fund obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies. See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Company’s funding requirements.

86

Table of Contents 

Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, purchased funds, borrowed funds and stockholders’ equity. Regions’ goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting the Company’s cash flow needs. The challenges of the recent recession and the recovery in the current market environment demonstrate the importance of having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Company’s funding requirements.

In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company, and affiliate levels. Regions updated its liquidity policy related to minimum holding company cash requirements during the fourth quarter of 2013. The new policy requires the holding company to maintain cash sufficient to cover the greater of (1) 18 months of debt service and other cash needs or (2) a minimum cash balance of $500 million. Compliance with the holding company cash requirements will be reported to the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Regions has similar minimum liquidity requirements for the Bank and subsidiaries. The Bank's funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on unsecured sources. Risk limits are established within the Company's ALCO, which regularly reviews compliance with the established limits. 

The securities portfolio is one of Regions’ primary sources of liquidity. Proceeds from maturities and principal and interest payments of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 4 “Securities” to the consolidated financial statements). The agency guaranteed mortgage portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities.

Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one-to-four family residential first mortgage loans. In addition, liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets, although Regions does not currently rely on unsecured wholesale market funding. Regions’ liquidity has been further enhanced by its relatively stable customer deposit base. 

Regions elected to exit the FDIC's TAG program on July 1, 2010. The TAG program was a component of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, whereby the FDIC guaranteed all funds held at participating institutions beyond the $250,000 deposit insurance limit in qualifying transaction accounts. The decision to exit the program did not have a significant impact on liquidity. The Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the FDIC coverage limit to $250,000. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, effective December 31, 2010, unlimited coverage for non-interest-bearing demand transaction accounts was provided until January 1, 2013. The expiration of unlimited coverage for non-interest-bearing demand transaction accounts did not have a significant impact on liquidity. 

Regulation Q prohibited banks from paying interest on business checking accounts in accordance with the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933. However, the Dodd-Frank Act repealed Regulation Q. In July 2011, financial institutions, such as Regions, were allowed to offer interest on corporate checking accounts. Regions responded to these changes by enhancing its existing core interest-bearing products. However, due to the low interest rate environment and unlimited FDIC insurance available on non-interest-bearing balances until January 1, 2013, the Company did not experience, nor does it anticipate experiencing, significant migration of business customer balances from non-interest-bearing accounts to interest-bearing accounts.

 As the economy continues to improve, Regions has been able to decrease the higher levels of excess cash held with the Federal Reserve Bank due to the uncertainty and inconsistency in the funding markets during the recession. The balance with the Federal Reserve Bank is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, “interest-bearing deposits in other banks.” Regions held approximately $2.3 billion in average excess cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve during 2013, down approximately 22 percent from average 2012 balances. Regions’ borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2013, based on assets pledged as collateral on that date, was $22.2 billion.

Regions periodically accesses funding markets through sales of securities with agreements to repurchase. Repurchase agreements are also offered through a commercial banking sweep product as a short-term investment opportunity for customers. All such arrangements are considered typical of the banking industry and are accounted for as borrowings.

Regions’ financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing the Company's liquidity position. As of December 31, 2013, Regions’ borrowing availability from the FHLB totaled $9.6 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank and its subsidiaries have pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one-to-four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Regions held $67 million in FHLB stock at December 31, 2013. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding.

In February 2013, Regions filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. This shelf registration does not have a capacity limit and can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and/or equity securities. The registration statement will expire in February 2016.

87

Table of Contents 

Regions’ Bank Note program allows Regions Bank to issue up to $5 billion aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. No issuances have been made under this program as of December 31, 2013. Notes issued under the program may be senior notes with maturities from 30 days to 15 years and subordinated notes with maturities from 5 years to 30 years. These notes are not deposits and they are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC.

Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments.

Table 27—Contractual Obligations 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for the Company’s commercial commitments at December 31, 2013.

(2)Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non-interest bearing demand, savings, interest-bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts.

(3)Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non-qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan.

(4)Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less.

(5)Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $51 million and tax-related interest and penalties of $4 million. See Note 19 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements.

(6)See Note 23 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the indemnification obligation to Raymond James, and the rationale for the expected payment timeframe.

CREDIT RISK

Regions’ objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high-quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Regions has a diversified loan portfolio in terms of product type, collateral and geography. See the “Credit Quality” section found earlier in this report for further information. 

Management Process

Regions employs a credit risk management process with defined policies, accountability and regular reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Credit risk management is guided by credit policies that provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and approvals of credits. Within the Credit Policy department, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on custom credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and investor real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk-rated, approved and monitored.

88

Table of Contents 

Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies in the individual business groups. For consumer and small business portfolios, the risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. The credit risk management division works with commercial relationship teams to analyze and underwrite new business opportunities, manage the overall loan portfolio, and perform ongoing credit servicing activities utilizing a risk-based approach which incorporates quantitative and qualitative factors.

To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions’ Problem Asset Management Division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures.

There are also separate and independent commercial credit and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These organizational units partner with the business line to assist in the processes described above, including the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio. Independent commercial and consumer credit risk management provides for more accurate risk ratings and the timely identification of problem credits, as well as oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios.

Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports, by product, business unit and geography, are reviewed by business group personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board of Directors. Finally, the Credit Review department provides ongoing independent oversight of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk-rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended.

Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio

In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. See Table 9 "Loan Portfolio" and the related discussion found earlier in this report for further information on the major categories of loans.

Economic Environment in Regions’ Banking Markets 

One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions’ loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. The “Great Recession” that began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009 took a severe toll on the U.S. economy, but by year-end 2013 many of the economic headwinds that had restrained the economy had diminished. Household balance sheets improved further due in part to continued low interest rates, continued housing market recovery and inventories of distressed properties having been greatly diminished in many markets, corporate balance sheets remained healthy, and by year-end 2013 consumer and business confidence had begun to improve. The economy overcame a significant fiscal drag - the cumulative effects of higher personal tax rates and cutbacks in federal government spending - that weighed down growth over the first half of the year. Additionally, the pace of economic growth accelerated meaningfully over the second half of the year, with annualized real GDP growth of 4.1 percent in the third quarter and 3.2 percent in the fourth quarter.

As such, the economy entered 2014 on firmer footing and the momentum established over the second half of 2013 is expected to be sustained. After deducting roughly 1.5 percent from top-line real GDP growth in 2013, fiscal drag is expected to be reduced in 2014 and deduct roughly 0.4 percent from top-line growth. At the same time, faster growth in private sector demand than seen in 2013 is expected to also contribute to improved growth. After growth of 1.9 percent in 2013, real GDP growth of approximately 3.0 percent is expected in 2014.

Still, it is important to note the economy is not yet fully healed from the Great Recession. As of December 2013, the level of non-farm payroll employment remained over one million jobs below the pre-recession peak. Moreover, while the unemployment rate stood at 6.7 percent as of December 2013, down from a cyclical peak of 10.0 percent in October 2009, a considerable portion of this decline has been due to a declining labor force participation rate as discouraged job seekers, many having been unemployed six months or more, exited the labor force. Further declines in the unemployment rate are expected due to the expiration of extended Unemployment Insurance benefits in the coming months, which could cause significant numbers of unemployed individuals to exit the labor market. Additionally, just under eight million adults are working part-time for economic reasons (for example, they would prefer a full-time job but can only find part-time employment) - such individuals are not unemployed but are underemployed. As such, the falling unemployment rate currently overstates the extent of improvement in the labor market. Should the rate of overall economic growth pick up as anticipated, it should lead to more genuine improvement in labor market conditions.

While the downside risks from fiscal policy seem diminished in 2014 relative to 2013, there is some degree of uncertainty pertaining to monetary policy, specifically the effects of the Federal Reserve reducing, and ultimately ending, its large-scale asset 

89

Table of Contents 

purchases. While monetary policy is expected to remain accommodative, market expectations of the timing of an initial hike in the Fed funds rate could be pulled forward, particularly in the context of an accelerating pace of economic growth and a rapidly falling unemployment rate. In such an environment, long-term interest rates would be expected to trend higher, but there could be an above-normal degree of volatility in interest rates, along the entire yield curve, as a result of uncertainty over the future course of the Fed funds rate. Moreover, the paring down and ultimate ending of the Fed’s large-scale asset purchases can be expected to contribute to volatility in international flows of capital, which in turn could contribute to economic stress in emerging market nations. 

Within the Regions footprint, the pace of economic growth is proceeding roughly on par with that of the U.S. as a whole. Payroll employment is rising but still below its pre-recession peak. Those markets with exposure to energy exploration and production, durable goods manufacturing, and technology are faring the best, and across the footprint health care remains a key driver of job growth while the drag from job reductions in the state and local government sectors appears to have abated to a certain extent. Housing market activity appears to be picking up at a steady pace; while many Florida markets continue to see elevated inventories of distressed properties, those inventories are nonetheless being worked down which should ultimately pave the way for a faster pace of new single family construction.

In summation, we expect the pace of real GDP growth to accelerate to approximately 3.0 percent for 2014 as a whole, with firmer growth in private sector demand and a significantly smaller degree of fiscal drag, and we look for growth in 2015 to be slightly faster than in 2014.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses ("allowance") consists of two components: the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. The allowance represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of period end. 

Allowance Process—Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: 1) detailed reviews of individual loans; 2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge-offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; 3) the Company’s policies relating to delinquent loans and charge-offs; 4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; 5) levels and trends in non-performing and past due loans; 6) collateral values of properties securing loans; 7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; 8) management’s analysis of current economic conditions; 9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and 10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio.

Commercial and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Problem Asset Management are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program for consumer lending is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent.

In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non-performing loans on at least an annual basis. For loans that are individually identified for impairment in certain loan categories, those valuations are currently discounted from the most recent appraisal to consider continued declines in property values. The discounted valuations are utilized in the measurement of the level of impairment in the allowance calculation. For loans that are not individually identified for impairment and secured by real estate, Regions considers the impact of declines in real estate valuations in the loss given default estimates within the allowance calculation.

As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure the guarantor’s ability to perform under the guarantee. Evaluation of guarantors’ ability and willingness to pay is considered as part of the risk rating process, which provides the basis for the allowance for loan losses for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments. In some cases, the credit support provided by the guarantor is integral to the risk rating. In concluding that the risk rating is appropriate, Regions considers a number of factors including whether underlying cash flow is adequate to service the debt, payment history, and whether there is appropriate guarantor support. Accordingly, Regions has concluded that the impact of credit support provided by guarantors has been appropriately considered in the calculation and assessment of the allowance for loan losses.

90

Table of Contents 

For a discussion of the methodology used to calculate the allowance for credit losses refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” in the consolidated financial statements. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s total, are included in Table 15 “Allowance for Credit Losses.” Also, refer to Table 16 “Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses” for details pertaining to management’s allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category.

Counterparty Risk

Counterparty risk within Regions Bank is the risk that the counterparty to any transaction could default or experience deterioration in its credit profile before the settlement of a financial transaction. Exposure may be to a financial institution (such as commercial banks, insurance companies, broker dealers, etc.) or a corporate client. 

Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management, and monitoring of counterparty exposure. Financial Institution and Counterparty Credit, housed within Capital Markets Risk Management, is responsible for the independent credit risk management of financial institution counterparties and their affiliates. Market Risk Management is responsible for the suitability, measurement, and stress testing of counterparty exposures. Business Services Credit is responsible for the independent credit risk management of client side counterparties.

Financial institution exposure may result from a variety of transaction types generated in one or more departments of the Company. Exposure limits are established to manage the exposure generated by various areas of the Company. Counterparty client credit risk arises when Regions sells a risk management product to hedge risks in the client’s business. Exposures to counterparties are aggregated across departments and regularly reported to senior management.

INFORMATION SECURITY RISK

Operational risks comprise several elements, including information security risks. Information security risks for large financial institutions such as Regions have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, activists and other external parties.  Regions spends significant resources on operational and information security. Regions is a member of the Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center ("FS-ISAC"). The FS-ISAC is a nonprofit organization and is funded entirely by its member firms and sponsors. Total membership exceeds 4,400 organizations primarily focused in the U.S. financial services sector. The overall objective of FS-ISAC is to protect the financial services sector against cyber and physical threats and risk. It acts as a trusted third party that provides anonymity to allow members to submit threat, vulnerability and incident information in a non-attributable and trusted manner so information that would normally not be shared is instead provided for the good of the membership. In addition to FS-ISAC, Regions is a member of BITS, the technology arm of the Financial Services Roundtable. BITS serves the financial community and its members by providing industry best practices on a variety of security and fraud topics. Regions also maintains a close working relationship with its regulators and law enforcement partners to keep them updated on pertinent risks. 

Denial of service attacks, hacking or terrorist activities, could disrupt the Company's or the Company's customers' or other third parties' business operations. For example, during 2013, a group launched several denial of service attacks against a number of large financial services institutions, including Regions. These events did not result in a breach of Regions' client data, and account information remained secure; however, the attacks did adversely affect the performance of Regions Bank's website, www.regions.com, and, in some instances, temporarily prevented customers from accessing Regions Bank's secure websites. In addition, some outbound internet slowness existed. The 2013 events were all resolved during the same business day of the attack. In all cases, the attacks primarily resulted in inconvenience to employees and customers. Regions engages employees from all business groups, not just information technology, to combat these attacks. 

Regions will continue to commit the resources necessary to mitigate these growing risks. In addition, Regions has contracts with vendors to provide denial of service mitigation and these vendors have also continued to commit the necessary resources to support Regions in the event of an attack.

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS

Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions’ process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they 

91

Table of Contents 

are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective.

Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) are generally designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Regions’ Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations, treasury and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, treasury, the business groups, and administration. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from accounting, treasury, legal, audit, risk management, the business groups and administration. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Company’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Form 10-K is presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval, and the Forms 10-Q are reviewed by the Audit Committee. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.

As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions’ periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary.

COMPARISON OF 2012 WITH 2011—CONTINUING OPERATIONS

Regions reported net income available to common shareholders of $991 million, or $0.71 per diluted common share, in 2012 compared to a net loss available to common shareholders of $429 million, or ($0.34) per diluted share, in 2011. Regions reported income from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.76 per diluted common share, in 2012 compared to a loss from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $25 million, or ($0.02) per diluted share, in 2011. 

Net interest income from continuing operations was $3.3 billion in 2012 compared to $3.4 billion 2011. The net interest margin from continuing operations (taxable-equivalent basis) was 3.11 percent in 2012, compared to 3.07 percent during 2011. The decrease in net interest income resulted from a $4.4 billion decline in average interest earning assets. The margin improvement was driven primarily by mix shift from time deposits to lower cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 0.30 percent in 2012 from 0.49 percent in 2011. 

Non-interest income from continuing operations decreased $43 million to $2.1 billion in 2012 compared to 2011. The year-over-year decrease was due primarily to lower securities gains and service charges, partially offset by increased mortgage income, capital markets fee income and other income.

Service charges on deposit accounts decreased 16 percent in 2012 and totaled $985 million compared to $1.2 billion in 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by policy changes negatively impacting non-sufficient fund fees related to Regulation E, as well as a decline in interchange income as a result of debit interchange price controls implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011. During 2012, service charges on deposit accounts were also negatively impacted by a total of approximately $35 million in customer refunds resulting from a change in the Company’s non-sufficient funds policy.

In 2012, mortgage income increased $143 million, or 65 percent to $363 million. The increase reflects wider margins as a result of favorable market conditions, as well as an increase in originations driven by customers taking advantage of the opportunity to refinance under the extended Home Affordable Refinance Program, or HARP II. Mortgage originations totaled $8.0 billion in 2012 as compared to $6.3 billion in 2011. In 2012, refinancing encompassed 63 percent of mortgage originations versus 54 percent in 2011.

Regions reported net gains of $48 million from the sale of securities available for sale in 2012, compared to net gains of $112 million in 2011. Lower security gains during 2012 were due to lower volumes of securities sales resulting from the Company’s asset/liability management process.

92

Table of Contents 

Credit card/bank card income increased $20 million in 2012 as compared to 2011. Credit card income is derived from activity related to the Regions-branded credit card amounts purchased from FIA Card Services in the second quarter of 2011 and any subsequent originations. Bank card income relates to commercial purchasing cards. The increase in 2012 is due to an entire year's worth of impact from the 2011 credit card portfolio purchase.

Non-interest expense from continuing operations decreased $336 million in 2012. Non-interest expense in 2011 included a $253 million goodwill impairment charge plus $75 million in branch consolidation and property and equipment charges. The decline in non-interest expense in 2012 included $61 million in net gains related to the sale of loans held for sale in excess of their carrying values, plus a reduction in other real estate owned expenses of $110 million partially offset by a $159 million increase in salaries and employee benefits. See Table 6 “Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations” for additional information.

Total salaries and employee benefits increased $159 million, or 10 percent, in 2012. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to higher pension costs, annual merit increases, restricted stock awards and incentive increases, including mortgage-related incentives, partially offset by a decline in headcount from 23,707 at December 31, 2011 to 23,427 at December 31, 2012.

Net occupancy expense decreased 2 percent to $382 million in 2012. Furniture and equipment expense decreased by $14 million to $261 million in 2012. Both of these decreases were primarily driven by branch consolidations.

Professional and legal fees are comprised of amounts related to legal, consulting and other professional fees. These fees decreased $61 million or 35 percent to $114 million in 2012, reflecting a decrease in the level of legal expenses.

OREO expense decreased $110 million to $52 million in 2012 compared to $162 million in 2011, primarily driven by the reduction in foreclosed properties balances along with lower valuation charges. Through Regions’ efforts to sell foreclosed properties, OREO balances decreased $147 million to $149 million in 2012 compared to $296 million in 2011.

Deposit administrative fees decreased $55 million to $162 million in 2012. Deposit administrative fees were impacted by a new assessment rule in 2011, which revised the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The new rule changed the assessment base from deposits as the basis and utilizes a risk-based approach which calculates the assessment using average consolidated assets minus average tangible equity. Implementation of the new rule was effective beginning in the second quarter of 2011. The lower fees were a result of improved financial performance.

During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company redeemed all issued and outstanding 8.875% Trust Preferred Securities issued by Regions Financing Trust III (“trust preferred securities”). The aggregate principal amount of the trust preferred securities was approximately $345 million. The Company recognized an $11 million loss on the early redemption of these securities.

On November 30, 2012, Regions entered into an agreement with a third party investor in Regions Asset Management Company, Inc., a real estate investment trust, pursuant to which the investment was fully redeemed. As a result, Regions incurred early termination costs of approximately $42 million.

Other miscellaneous expenses increased $43 million to $479 million in 2012. The primary drivers of the increase were mortgage repurchase expenses, amortization of intangible assets related to the credit card portfolio purchase and bank operational losses. Other miscellaneous expenses also include communications, postage, supplies, credit-related costs and business development services.

The Company’s income tax expense for 2012 was $482 million compared to a tax benefit of $28 million in 2011, resulting in an effective tax rate of 29.0 percent and (17.4) percent, respectively. The increase in income tax expense was primarily a result of positive consolidated pre-tax earnings.

At December 31, 2012, the allowance for loan losses totaled $1.9 billion or 2.59 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $2.7 billion or 3.54 percent at year-end 2011. Net charge-offs totaled $1.0 billion, or 1.37 percent of average loans in 2012 compared to $2.0 billion, or 2.44 percent of average loans in 2011. Net charge-offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2012 to the prior year. The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in management’s judgment is appropriate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2012, the provision for loan losses was $213 million. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $1.5 billion in 2011. Net charge-offs exceeded the provision for loan losses during 2012 primarily from continued improving credit metrics, as well as an overall reduction in loan balances, problem loan resolutions and a continuing mix shift in loans out of higher risk investor real estate and into less risky commercial and industrial loans. Non-performing assets decreased from $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011, to $1.9 billion at December 31, 2012, reflecting management’s efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures.

93

Table of Contents 

Table 28—Quarterly Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]________

(1)Quarterly amounts may not add to year-to-date amounts due to rounding.

(2)High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices.

94

Table of Contents 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data