ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

Introduction

This MD&A is intended to provide investors with an understanding of our recent performance, financial condition and prospects. This discussion and analysis compares 2016 results to 2015, and 2015 results to 2014. The reference to "N.M." indicates that the calculation is not meaningful. In addition, we provide commentary regarding organic sales growth, which describes the impact of changes in volume, product mix and net selling prices on net sales. Changes in foreign currency rates also impact the year-over-year change in net sales. Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted. 

The following will be discussed and analyzed:

•Overview of Business

•Overview of 2016 Results

•Results of Operations and Related Information

•Unaudited Quarterly Data

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

•Legal Matters

•New Accounting Standards 

•Business Outlook

•Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Throughout this MD&A, we refer to financial measures that have not been calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP, and are therefore referred to as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures include adjusted operating profit, adjusted net income, adjusted earnings per share, adjusted other (income) and expense, net, and adjusted effective tax rate. We believe these measures provide our investors with additional information about our underlying results and trends, as well as insight to some of the financial measures used to evaluate management. 

Non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the comparable GAAP measures, and they should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. There are limitations to these non-GAAP financial measures because they are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and items being excluded. We compensate for these limitations by using these non-GAAP financial measures as a supplement to the GAAP measures and by providing reconciliations of the non-GAAP and comparable GAAP financial measures. 

The non-GAAP financial measures exclude the following items for the relevant time periods as indicated in the reconciliations included later in this MD&A:

•2014 Organization Restructuring - In 2014, we initiated a restructuring plan in order to improve organization efficiency and offset the impact of stranded overhead costs resulting from the spin-off of our health care business. Results in 2016, 2015 and 2014 include charges related to this initiative. See Item 8, Note 2, of the consolidated financial statements for details.

•Adjustments related to Venezuelan operations - Results in 2016 and 2015 include adjustments for the deconsolidation of our Venezuelan operations, and in 2015 and 2014 include charges for remeasuring the local currency balance sheet in Venezuela. See Item 8, Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements for details.

•Pension settlement charges - In 2015, we recorded settlement-related charges from certain actions taken for our U.S. pension plan. See Item 8, Note 9 of the consolidated financial statements for details.

•Uncertain tax positions adjustment - In 2015, we updated our assessment of uncertain tax positions for certain international operations, and recorded a charge related to prior years in provision for income taxes. See Item 8, Note 14 of the consolidated financial statements for details.

  11KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

•Turkey restructuring - In 2015, we recorded charges related to the restructuring of our operations in Turkey. 

•Regulatory dispute in the Middle East - In 2014, we recorded a charge as a result of an adverse court ruling regarding the treatment of capital contributions in prior years to an affiliate in the Middle East. 

•European strategic changes and related restructuring charges - In 2012, we initiated strategic changes to, and a related restructuring in, our Western and Central European businesses. Results in 2014 include charges related to this restructuring activity. See Item 8, Note 4 of the consolidated financial statements for details.

Overview of Business

We are a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life, with manufacturing facilities in 35 countries and products sold in more than 175 countries. Our products are sold under well-known brands such as Kleenex, Scott, Huggies, Pull-Ups, Kotex and Depend. We have three reportable business segments: Personal Care, Consumer Tissue and KCP. These business segments are described in greater detail in Item 8, Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.

In operating our business, we seek to:

•manage our portfolio to balance growth, profit margin and cash flow, 

•invest in our brands, innovation and growth initiatives, 

•deliver sustainable cost reductions, and 

•provide disciplined capital management to improve return on invested capital and return cash to shareholders. 

We describe our business outside North America in two groups – Developing and Emerging Markets ("D&E") and Developed Markets. D&E markets comprise Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Latin America and Asia-Pacific, excluding Australia and South Korea. Developed Markets consist of Western and Central Europe, Australia and South Korea. 

Highlights for 2016 include the following:

•Net sales of $18.2 billion decreased 2 percent compared to 2015. Weakening foreign currency exchange rates reduced sales by 4 percent. Organic sales increased 2 percent. 

•Organic sales in our North American consumer business grew 1 percent primarily due to 3 percent sales volume growth.

•Organic sales in D&E markets grew 4 percent in 2016. While we continued to benefit from innovation, expansion, category development and higher net selling prices, our overall growth in D&E markets moderated compared to prior years, primarily due to slower economic growth and weaker category dynamics.

•In our Developed Markets outside North America, organic sales were essentially even.

•We generated an all-time record $435 of cost savings from our ongoing FORCE (Focused On Reducing Costs Everywhere) program. These savings helped fund investments in innovations and growth initiatives and improve our profit margins.

•We completed our 2014 Organization Restructuring in order to improve organization efficiency and offset the impact of stranded overhead costs resulting from the spin-off of our health care business in 2014. Savings from this initiative were $70 in 2016, bringing annualized savings to $140.

•We continued to focus on generating cash flow and allocating capital to shareholders. In 2016, cash provided by operations was $3.2 billion, an increase of 40 percent year-on-year. Share repurchases of Kimberly-Clark common stock were $750. In addition, we raised our dividend in 2016 by 4.5 percent, the 44th consecutive annual increase in our dividend. Altogether, share repurchases and dividends in 2016 amounted to $2.1 billion.

We completed the spin-off of our health care business on October 31, 2014. As a result, the health care business is presented as discontinued operations on the consolidated income statement in 2014. 

We are subject to risks and uncertainties, which can affect our business operations and financial results. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K for additional information.

  12KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

Overview of 2016 Results

•Net sales of $18.2 billion decreased 2 percent compared to prior year, as changes in foreign currency exchange rates decreased net sales by 4 percent.

•Operating profit and Net Income Attributable to Kimberly-Clark Corporation were $3,317 and $2,166 in 2016 and $1,613 and $1,013 in 2015, respectively. Diluted earnings per share was $5.99 in 2016 compared to $2.77 in 2015. Results in 2015 included $1,358 ($835 after tax) of pension settlement charges and $153 ($147 after tax) of charges related to our Venezuelan operations.

• Adjusted operating profit and adjusted diluted earnings per share increased 4 percent and 5 percent, respectively, compared to 2015.

Results of Operations and Related Information

This section presents a discussion and analysis of net sales, operating profit and other information relevant to an understanding of 2016 results of operations. 

Consolidated

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Profit Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP

Operating profit includes the following adjusting items:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  13KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

Consolidated Net Sales and Adjusted Operating Profit

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 vs. 2015

Net sales of $18.2 billion decreased 2 percent compared to 2015, as changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced sales by about 4 percent. Organic sales increased approximately 2 percent due to higher volumes. Operating profit was $3,317 in 2016 versus $1,613 in 2015. Results in 2015 included $1,358 of pension settlement charges and $153 of charges related to our Venezuelan operations. Adjusted operating profit of $3,341 in 2016 increased 4 percent compared to $3,210 in 2015. Results in 2016 included benefits from organic sales growth, $435 of FORCE cost savings and $70 of savings from the 2014 Organization Restructuring. In addition, input costs were $65 lower. Translation effects due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates lowered operating profit by $90 and transaction effects also negatively impacted results. 

2015 vs. 2014

Net sales of $18.6 billion decreased 6 percent compared to 2014, as changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced net sales more than 10 percent. Organic net sales increased 5 percent, as volumes increased 4 percent and product mix was favorable by 1 percent. Operating profit of $1,613 decreased 36 percent compared to 2014. Comparisons were negatively impacted by significant unfavorable currency effects, as well as adjusting items described in the operating profit reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP above. Adjusted operating profit of $3,210 in 2015 increased 1 percent compared to $3,184 in 2014. The comparisons benefited from organic sales growth, FORCE cost savings of $365, input cost deflation of $150 and $65 of savings from the 2014 Organization Restructuring. Translation effects due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates lowered adjusted operating profit by $360 and foreign currency transaction effects also negatively impacted the operating profit comparisons. Total marketing, research and general expenses increased on a local currency basis, driven by higher administrative costs.

Other (Income) & Expense, Net Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP

Other (income) & expense, net includes the following adjusting items:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted other (income) and expense, net was expense of $22 in 2016 and $62 in 2015. The change was driven by higher currency transaction losses in 2015. Adjusted other (income) and expense, net was expense of $62 in 2015 and income of $3 in 2014. The change was driven by higher foreign currency transaction losses in 2015 compared to 2014, and gains on asset sales in 2014. 

  14KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

Provision for Income Taxes Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP

Provision for income taxes includes the following adjusting items:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in adjusted effective tax rate in 2016 is primarily due to certain planning initiatives. The increase in adjusted effective tax rate in 2015 is primarily due to the redemption of preferred securities in 2014.

Share of Net Income from Equity Companies

Our share of net income of equity companies was $132 in 2016, $149 in 2015 and $146 in 2014. Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. ("KCM") results in 2016 compared to 2015 were negatively impacted by a weaker Mexican peso and higher input costs, partially offset by benefits from organic sales growth and cost savings. KCM results in 2015 compared to 2014 benefited from increased organic sales, cost savings, and lower input costs, partially offset by a weaker Mexican peso.

  15KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

Net Income Attributable to Kimberly-Clark and Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations Reconciliations of GAAP to Non-GAAP

Net Income Attributable to Kimberly-Clark and Diluted Earnings Per Share include the following adjusting items:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations in 2016 and 2015 are due to higher earnings and lower share counts. 

  16KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

Geographical Information

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  17KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

Business Segments

Personal Care

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 vs. 2015

Net sales of $9.0 billion in 2016 decreased 2 percent compared to 2015. Unfavorable currency rates decreased sales by 5 percent while sales volumes increased 4 percent. Changes in net selling prices decreased sales by 1 percent. Operating profit of $1,857 decreased 1 percent. The comparison was impacted by unfavorable currency effects and higher marketing, research and general expenses on a local currency basis, mostly offset by organic sales growth and cost savings. 

Net sales in North America increased 2 percent. Sales volumes increased 4 percent, while lower net selling prices reduced sales by 2 percent. Child care volumes increased high-single digits and adult care volumes rose in the mid-single digits, as both businesses benefited from category growth and innovations launched in the last 12 months. Volumes on Huggies baby wipes rose mid-single digits. Huggies diapers volumes were down low-single digits, although market shares were up slightly.

Net sales in developing and emerging markets decreased 6 percent, including an 11 percent negative impact from unfavorable currency rate changes. This was partially offset by sales volume increases of 4 percent and changes in net selling prices that increased sales by 1 percent. Volume growth included gains in China, Eastern Europe, Africa and Central America, while volumes declined in Argentina and Brazil. Net selling prices increased in Argentina and Brazil, but decreased in China.

Net sales in developed markets outside North America decreased 2 percent. Currency rates were unfavorable by 3 percent. Sales volumes increased 2 percent and product mix was favorable 1 percent, while changes in net selling prices decreased sales by 2 percent.

2015 vs. 2014

In 2015, net sales of $9.2 billion decreased 4 percent compared to 2014. Unfavorable currency rates decreased net sales by 11 percent while sales volumes increased 5 percent and net selling prices and product mix each increased net sales by 1 percent. Operating profit of $1,885 increased 5 percent. The comparison benefited from growth in organic net sales, cost savings and lower input and other manufacturing costs, partially offset by unfavorable effects from changes in currency rates and higher marketing, research and general expenses on a local currency basis.

Net sales in North America increased 1 percent. Sales volumes increased 4 percent while net selling prices and currency decreased net sales by 2 percent and 1 percent, respectively. Adult care volumes increased high-single digits with benefits from innovations, brand investments and category growth. Volumes on Huggies diapers rose low-single digits including benefits from innovation and increased promotion support. Huggies baby wipes volumes rose mid-single digits with benefits from innovation and child care volumes were even with prior year.

Net sales in developing and emerging markets decreased 8 percent including a 22 percent decrease from unfavorable currency rate changes. This was partly offset by an increase in sales volumes of 8 percent which included gains in China, most of Latin America, 

  18KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

and Eastern Europe, and 5 percent higher net selling prices, driven by increases in Eastern Europe and Latin America in response to weaker currency rates. 

Net sales in developed markets outside North America decreased 10 percent. Currency rates were unfavorable by 11 percent. Volumes and product mix increased by 1 percent each while net selling prices decreased net sales by 1 percent.

Consumer Tissue

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 vs. 2015

Net sales of $6.0 billion in 2016 decreased 3 percent compared to 2015 as unfavorable currency rates and changes in product mix reduced sales by 2 percent and 1 percent, respectively. Operating profit of $1,117 increased 4 percent compared to prior year. The comparison benefited from cost savings and lower input costs, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects. 

Net sales in North America were essentially even with the prior year. Sales volumes increased by 1 percent, with increases in all product categories, while product mix was unfavorable by 1 percent. 

Net sales in developing and emerging markets decreased 7 percent as unfavorable currency rates reduced sales by about 7 percent. Sales volumes decreased about 4 percent, primarily in Latin America, while changes in net selling prices increased sales by 3 percent. 

Net sales in developed markets outside North America decreased 4 percent as unfavorable currency effects reduced sales by 4 percent. Sales volumes increased 1 percent, mostly in Australia, while changes in net selling prices decreased sales by 1 percent. 

2015 vs. 2014

In 2015, net sales of $6.1 billion decreased 8 percent compared to 2014. Unfavorable currency rates reduced net sales by 9 percent. Sales volumes increased net sales by 3 percent and net selling prices lowered net sales by 1 percent. Operating profit of $1,073 increased 1 percent compared to prior year. The comparison benefited from cost savings and higher sales volumes, mostly offset by the impact of unfavorable foreign currency rates. 

Net sales in North America increased 2 percent. Sales volumes increased by 6 percent, while net selling prices decreased net sales by 2 percent and product mix was unfavorable by 1 percent. Paper towel volumes rose double-digits led by Viva and bathroom tissue volumes rose high-single digits led by Cottonelle. 

Net sales in developing and emerging markets decreased 22 percent. Unfavorable currency rates reduced net sales by 25 percent. Net selling prices increased net sales by 2 percent while volumes increased 1 percent. 

Net sales in developed markets outside North America decreased 13 percent. Unfavorable currency effects reduced net sales by 11 percent. Sales volumes decreased 1 percent, mostly in Western/Central Europe, and net selling prices decreased net sales by 1 percent. 

  19KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

K-C Professional

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 vs. 2015

Net sales of $3,150 in 2016 decreased 2 percent compared to 2015 as unfavorable currency rate changes decreased sales by about 2 percent, partially offset by changes in net selling prices that increased sales by about 1 percent. Operating profit of $603 increased 2 percent. The comparison benefited from higher selling prices and cost savings, partially offset by unfavorable currency effects and higher marketing, research and general expenses on a local currency basis.

Net sales in North America increased 2 percent. Sales volumes increased 1 percent, mostly due to growth in washroom products, and the combined impact of changes in net selling prices and product mix increased sales by 1 percent.

Net sales in developing and emerging markets decreased 3 percent as unfavorable changes in currency rates reduced sales by 8 percent. Changes in net selling prices increased sales by 5 percent and product mix improved sales by 1 percent, while sales volumes decreased by 1 percent.

Net sales in developed markets outside North America were down 5 percent, including a 3 percent negative impact from unfavorable currency rates. Changes in net selling prices reduced sales by 2 percent and sales volumes decreased 1 percent, while product mix increased sales by 1 percent.

2015 vs. 2014

In 2015, net sales of $3.2 billion decreased 5 percent compared to 2014. Unfavorable currency rate changes decreased net sales by 9 percent. Sales volumes and product mix each increased net sales by 2 percent, including sales of nonwovens to Halyard Health, Inc. in conjunction with a near-term supply agreement. Operating profit of $590 decreased 2 percent. The comparison was impacted by unfavorable currency effects, mostly offset by benefits from organic net sales growth, cost savings and lower input costs.

Net sales in North America increased 1 percent. Sales volumes increased 2 percent, primarily due to growth in wipers, while unfavorable currency effects decreased net sales by 1 percent.

Net sales in developing and emerging markets decreased 15 percent, including a 21 percent decrease from unfavorable changes in currency rates. Volumes increased by 2 percent and the combined impact of changes in net selling prices and product mix improved net sales by 4 percent.

Net sales in developed markets outside North America were down 13 percent. Unfavorable changes in currency rates decreased net sales by 13 percent. Sales volumes increased 1 percent, while the combined impact of changes in overall net selling prices and product mix reduced sales 1 percent.

  20KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

Unaudited Quarterly Data

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net income (loss) in the fourth quarter of 2015 was impacted by a $108 pre-tax charge ($102 after tax) to deconsolidate our Venezuelan operations and a charge of $49 related to prior years for uncertain tax positions for certain international operations. Results in 2015 also included charges related to pension settlements of $0.8 billion after tax ($1.4 billion pre-tax), primarily in the second quarter. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Provided by Operations

Cash provided by operations was $3.2 billion in 2016 compared to $2.3 billion in 2015. The increase was driven by improved working capital and lower pension contributions. Cash provided by operations was $2.8 billion in 2014. The decrease in 2015 compared to 2014 was driven by higher pension contributions in 2015, the spin-off of the health care business in the fourth quarter of 2014 and increased operating working capital.

Obligations

The following table presents our total contractual obligations for which cash flows are fixed or determinable. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Projected interest payments for variable-rate debt were calculated based on the outstanding principal amounts and prevailing market rates as of December 31, 2016.

•The unconditional purchase obligations are for the purchase of raw materials, primarily superabsorbent materials, pulp and utilities. Although we are primarily liable for payments on the above operating leases and unconditional purchase obligations, based on historic operating performance and forecasted future cash flows, we believe exposure to losses, if any, under these arrangements is not material.

•The open purchase orders displayed in the table represent amounts for goods and services we have negotiated for delivery.

  21KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

The table does not include amounts where payments are discretionary or the timing is uncertain. The following payments are not included in the table:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Accrued income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, deferred taxes and noncontrolling interests.

Investing

Our capital spending was $0.8 billion in 2016 and $1.1 billion in 2015. We expect capital spending to be $850 to $950 in 2017. 

Financing

We issue long-term debt in the public market periodically. Proceeds from the offerings are used for general corporate purposes, including repayment of maturing debt or outstanding commercial paper indebtedness. See Item 8, Note 7 of the consolidated financial statements for details.

Our short-term debt, which consists of U.S. commercial paper with original maturities up to 90 days and/or other similar short-term debt issued by non-U.S. subsidiaries, was $170 as of December 31, 2016 (included in debt payable within one year on the consolidated balance sheet). The average month-end balance of short-term debt for the fourth quarter of 2016 was $227 and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 was $512. These short-term borrowings provide supplemental funding for supporting our operations. The level of short-term debt generally fluctuates depending upon the amount of operating cash flows and the timing of customer receipts and payments for items such as pension contributions, dividends and income taxes.

At December 31, 2016, total debt was $7.6 billion compared to $7.8 billion at December 31, 2015.

We maintain a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility which expires in 2021. This facility, currently unused, supports our commercial paper program, and would provide liquidity in the event our access to the commercial paper markets is unavailable for any reason.

We paid $1.3 billion in dividends in 2016. The Board of Directors approved a dividend increase of 5.4 percent for 2017. We repurchase shares of Kimberly-Clark common stock from time to time pursuant to publicly announced share repurchase programs. During 2016, we repurchased 6.0 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $750 through a broker in the open market. We are targeting full-year 2017 share repurchases of $800 to $1,000, subject to market conditions.

Management believes that our ability to generate cash from operations and our capacity to issue short-term and long-term debt are adequate to fund working capital, capital spending, payment of dividends, pension plan contributions and other needs for the foreseeable future. Further, we do not expect restrictions or taxes on repatriation of cash held outside of the United States to have a material effect on our overall business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations for the foreseeable future.

  22KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. The critical accounting policies we used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are those that are important both to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require significant judgments by management with regard to estimates used. The critical judgments by management relate to accruals for sales incentives and trade promotion allowances, pension and other postretirement benefits, deferred income taxes and potential income tax assessments. These critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Sales Incentives and Trade Promotion Allowances

Trade promotion programs include introductory marketing funds such as slotting fees, cooperative marketing programs, temporary price reductions, end-of-aisle or in-store product displays and other activities conducted by our customers to promote our products. Rebate and promotion accruals are based on estimates of the quantity of customer sales and the promotion accruals also consider estimates of the number of consumer coupons that will be redeemed and timing and costs of activities within the promotional programs. Generally, the estimates for consumer coupon costs are based on historical patterns of coupon redemption, influenced by judgments about current market conditions such as competitive activity in specific product categories. Our related accounting policies are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Employee Postretirement Benefits

Pension Plans

We have defined benefit pension plans in the United States and the United Kingdom (the "Principal Plans") and/or defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all regular employees. Certain other subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans or, in certain countries, termination pay plans covering substantially all regular employees. Our related accounting policies and account balances, as well as the 2015 transaction related to our U.S. pension plan, are discussed in Item 8, Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.

Changes in certain assumptions could affect pension expense and the benefit obligations, particularly the estimated long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rates used to calculate the obligations:

•Long-term rate of return on plan assets. The expected long-term rate of return is evaluated on an annual basis. In setting these assumptions, we consider a number of factors including projected future returns by asset class relative to the target asset allocation. Actual asset allocations are regularly reviewed and they are periodically rebalanced to the targeted allocations when considered appropriate. 

As of December 31, 2016, the Principal Plans had cumulative unrecognized investment and actuarial losses of approximately $1.5 billion. These unrecognized net losses may increase future pension expense if not offset by (i) actual investment returns that exceed the assumed investment returns, (ii) other factors, including reduced pension liabilities arising from higher discount rates used to calculate pension obligations, or (iii) other actuarial gains, including whether such accumulated actuarial losses at each measurement date exceed the "corridor" as required. If the expected long-term rates of return on assets for the Principal Plans were lowered by 0.25 percent, the impact on annual pension expense would not be material in 2017.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Other assumptions. There are a number of other assumptions involved in the calculation of pension expense and benefit obligations, primarily related to participant demographics and benefit elections. 

  23KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

Pension expense for defined benefit pension plans is estimated to approximate $65 in 2017. Pension expense beyond 2017 will depend on future investment performance, our contributions to the pension trusts, changes in discount rates and various other factors related to the covered employees in the plans.

Other Postretirement Benefit Plans

Substantially all U.S. retirees and employees have access to our unfunded healthcare and life insurance benefit plans. Changes in significant assumptions could affect the consolidated expense and benefit obligations, particularly the discount rates used to calculate the obligations and the healthcare cost trend rate:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Healthcare cost trend rate. The healthcare cost trend rate is based on a combination of inputs including our recent claims history and insights from external advisers regarding recent developments in the healthcare marketplace, as well as projections of future trends in the marketplace.

Our related accounting policies, account balances and the effects of a one percentage point change in the healthcare cost trend rate are discussed in Item 8, Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.

Deferred Income Taxes and Potential Assessments

As a global organization we are subject to income tax requirements in various jurisdictions in the U.S. and internationally. Changes in certain assumptions related to income taxes could significantly affect consolidated results, particularly with regard to valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside the U.S. and uncertain tax positions:

•Deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We have recorded deferred tax assets related to, among other matters, income tax loss carryforwards, income tax credit carryforwards and capital loss carryforwards and have established valuation allowances against these deferred tax assets. These carryforwards are primarily in non-U.S. taxing jurisdictions and in certain states in the U.S. Foreign tax credits earned in the U.S. in current and prior years, which cannot be used currently, also give rise to net deferred tax assets. In determining the valuation allowances to establish against these deferred tax assets, many factors are considered, including the specific taxing jurisdiction, the carryforward period, income tax strategies and forecasted earnings for the entities in each jurisdiction. A valuation allowance is recognized if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Uncertain tax positions. We record our global tax provision based on the respective tax rules and regulations for the jurisdictions in which we operate. Where we believe that a tax position is supportable for income tax purposes, the item is included in our income tax returns. Where treatment of a position is uncertain, a liability is recorded based upon the expected most likely outcome taking into consideration the technical merits of the position based on specific tax regulations and facts of each matter. These liabilities may be affected by changing interpretations of laws, rulings by tax authorities or the expiration of the statute of limitations. We currently believe that the ultimate resolution of matters subject to administrative appeals, litigation or other uncertainty, individually and in the aggregate, will not have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

  24KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

Our income tax related accounting policies, account balances and matters affecting income taxes are discussed in Item 8, Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Legal Matters

See Item 8, Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for information on legal matters.

New Accounting Standards

See Item 8, Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting standards and their anticipated effects on our consolidated financial statements.

Business Outlook

In 2017, we plan to continue to execute our Global Business Plan strategies, which include a focus on targeted growth initiatives, innovation and brand building, cost savings programs and shareholder-friendly capital allocation. In 2017, we expect earnings per share in a range of $6.20 to $6.35. Our outlook is based on the assumptions described below:

•Organic sales growth is expected to be approximately 2 percent, driven by higher volumes. Net selling prices and product mix are expected to be similar, or up slightly, year-on-year.

•We expect net sales to be similar to the prior year impacted by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate changes of 2 percent. We also expect unfavorable foreign currency translation effects to negatively impact operating profit growth by 2 percent. Currency transaction effects are also anticipated to negatively impact comparisons.

•We expect operating profit to improve compared to 2016 and to be up 2 to 4 percent compared to adjusted operating profit in 2016. 

•We plan to achieve cost savings of at least $400 from our FORCE program.

•We anticipate the net impact of changes in commodity costs to be between $50 and $200 of inflation, primarily due to inflation in international markets. 

•We expect an effective tax rate similar to 2016.

•We expect the net income from equity companies to decline due to lower income at K-C de Mexico as a result of a weaker Mexican peso.

•We anticipate capital spending to be in a $850 to $950 range and share repurchases to be between $800 and $1 billion, subject to market conditions.

•We expect to contribute up to $100 to our defined benefit pension plans.

•We have increased our quarterly dividend 5.4 percent.

Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

Certain matters contained in this report concerning the business outlook, including the anticipated cost savings from our FORCE program, cash flow and uses of cash, growth initiatives, innovations, marketing and other spending, net sales, anticipated currency rates and exchange risks, raw material, energy and other input costs, effective tax rate, contingencies and anticipated transactions of Kimberly-Clark, including dividends, share repurchases and pension contributions, constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are based upon management's expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting Kimberly-Clark. There can be no assurance that these future events will occur as anticipated or that our results will be as estimated. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update them. 

The assumptions used as a basis for the forward-looking statements include many estimates that, among other things, depend on the achievement of future cost savings and projected volume increases. In addition, many factors outside our control, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the prices and availability of our raw materials, potential competitive pressures on selling prices for our products, energy costs and retail trade customer actions, as well as general economic and political conditions globally and in the markets in which we do business, could affect the realization of these estimates.

The factors described under Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K, or in our other SEC filings, among others, could cause our future results to differ from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial could also affect our business operations and financial results.

  25KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2016 Annual Report

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK