PART I

ITEM 1.Business

General

Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading provider of specialty contracting services, offering infrastructure solutions primarily to the electric power, oil and gas and communication industries in the United States, Canada, Australia, Latin America and select other international markets. The services we provide include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of infrastructure within each of the industries we serve, such as electric power transmission and distribution networks, substation facilities, renewable energy facilities, pipeline transmission and distribution systems and facilities. 

We report our results under two reportable segments: (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Services and (2) Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services. This structure is generally focused on broad end-user markets for our services. Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 were $9.47 billion, of which 59% was attributable to the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment and 41% was attributable to the Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment. 

We have established a presence throughout the United States, Canada, Australia and Latin America with a workforce of approximately 32,800 employees as of December 31, 2017, which enables us to quickly and reliably serve a diversified customer base. We believe our reputation for responsiveness and performance, geographic reach, comprehensive service offering, safety leadership and financial strength have resulted in strong relationships with numerous customers, which include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. Our ability to deploy services to customers throughout the United States, Canada, Australia and Latin America as a result of our broad geographic presence and significant scope and scale of services is particularly important to our customers who operate networks that span multiple states or regions. We believe these same factors also position us to continue to take advantage of other international opportunities. Representative customers include:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We were organized as a corporation in the state of Delaware in 1997, and since that time, we have grown organically and through strategic acquisitions. This growth has allowed us to expand our geographic presence and scope of services and develop new capabilities to meet our customers’ evolving needs. 

We believe that our business strategies, along with our competitive and financial strengths, are key elements in differentiating us from our competition and position us to capitalize on future capital spending by our customers. We offer comprehensive and diverse solutions on a broad geographic scale and have a solid base of long-standing customer relationships in each of the industries we serve. We also have an experienced management team, both at the executive level and within our operating units, and various proprietary technologies that enhance our service offerings. Our strategies of expanding our portfolio of service offerings for existing and potential customers, increasing our geographic and technological capabilities, promoting best practices and cross-selling services to our existing customers, as well as continuing to maintain our financial strength, place us in the position to capitalize on opportunities and trends in the industries we serve and expand our operations to select international markets. We also continue to evaluate potential acquisitions of companies with strong management teams and good reputations and believe our financial strength and experienced management are attractive to potential acquisition targets. 

2

Reportable Segments

The following is an overview of the types of services provided by each of our reportable segments. 

Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment

The Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the electric power industry. Services performed by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of electric power transmission and distribution infrastructure and substation facilities along with other engineering and technical services. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including the repair of infrastructure damaged by inclement weather, the energized installation, maintenance and upgrade of electric power infrastructure utilizing unique bare hand and hot stick methods and our proprietary robotic arm technologies, and the installation of “smart grid” technologies on electric power networks. In addition, this segment designs, installs and maintains renewable energy generation facilities, consisting of solar, wind and certain types of natural gas generation facilities, and related switchyards and transmission infrastructure. To a lesser extent, the segment also provides comprehensive communications infrastructure services to wireline, fiber and wireless carrier customers within the communications industry; services in connection with the construction of electric power generation facilities; the design, installation, maintenance and repair of commercial and industrial wiring; and the installation of traffic networks and cable and control systems for light rail lines. 

Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services Segment

The Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers involved in the development, transportation, storage and processing of natural gas, oil and other pipeline products. Services performed by the Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and maintenance of pipeline transmission and distribution systems, gathering systems, production systems, storage systems and compressor and pump stations, as well as related trenching, directional boring and mechanized welding services. In addition, this segment’s services include pipeline protection, integrity testing, rehabilitation and replacement, and fabrication of pipeline support systems and related structures and facilities. We also serve the offshore and inland water energy markets, primarily providing services to oil and gas exploration platforms, including mechanical installation (or “hook-ups”), electrical and instrumentation, pre-commissioning and commissioning, coatings, shallow water pipeline installation, fabrication and marine asset repair. To a lesser extent, this segment designs, installs and maintains fueling systems, as well as water and sewer infrastructure. Through a recent acquisition, we expanded our service offerings in this segment to include high-pressure and critical-path turnaround services to the downstream and midstream energy markets and enhanced our capabilities with respect to instrumentation and electrical services, piping, fabrication and storage tank services.

Financial Information Regarding Reportable Segments

For financial information about our reportable segments, refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, which note is incorporated herein by reference.

Financial Information about Geographic Areas

We operate primarily in the United States; however, we derived $2.48 billion, $1.59 billion and $1.54 billion of our revenues from foreign operations during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Of our foreign revenues, 79%, 75% and 85% were earned in Canada during the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In addition, we held property and equipment of $330.4 million and $320.7 million in foreign countries, primarily Canada, as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. 

Our business, financial condition and results of operations in foreign countries may be adversely impacted by monetary and fiscal policies, currency fluctuations, regulatory requirements and other political, social and economic developments or instability. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for additional information and discussion regarding the potential impact of currency rate fluctuations.

Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred Provider Relationships

Our customers include electric power, oil and gas and communications companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. We have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. Our 10 largest customers accounted for 36% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2017. Our largest customer accounted for 9% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017.

3

Although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. Our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenues. Many of these customer relationships are long-standing and are maintained through a partnering approach with centralized account management, which includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. Additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective customers. We also encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complex. Our corporate-level business development group supports these activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units.

We are a preferred service provider for many of our customers, which means we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. We strive to maintain preferred status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer. Furthermore, many of our strategic relationships with customers take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements, which typically extend for an initial term of approximately two to five years and may include renewal options to extend the initial term. Strategic alliance agreements also generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. 

Backlog

Backlog is not a term recognized under United States generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP); however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. Our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies. 

Our backlog represents the amount of consolidated revenues that we expect to realize from future work under construction contracts, long-term maintenance contracts and master service agreements (MSAs). These estimates include revenues from the remaining portion of firm orders not yet completed and on which work has not yet begun, as well as revenues from change orders, renewal options, and funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent that they are reasonably expected to occur. For purposes of calculating backlog, we include 100% of estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (VIEs). The following table presents our total backlog by reportable segment as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue estimates included in our backlog can be subject to change as a result of project accelerations, cancellations or delays due to various factors, including but not limited to commercial issues, regulatory requirements and adverse weather. These factors can also cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods and at levels different than originally projected. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2017, we reduced our 12-month backlog for the Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment by approximately $100 million as a result of a cancellation of a natural gas pipeline project, for which we received a termination fee. Generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our MSAs, and most of our contracts may be terminated, typically upon 30 to 90 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. We determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under MSAs by using recurring historical trends inherent in current MSAs, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. In addition, many of our MSAs are subject to renewal options. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, MSAs accounted for 44% and 42% of our estimated 12-month backlog and 52% and 53% of total backlog. There can be no assurance as to our customers’ actual requirements or that our estimates are accurate. As discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, effective for the quarter ending March 31, 2018, we will adopt new revenue recognition guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Pursuant to the new guidance, we will also disclose the amount of remaining performance obligations at each period end as a separate component of backlog. We expect to continue to report total backlog on a basis consistent with our current definition.

4

Competition

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. A significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. Accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. We believe that as demand for our services increases, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. In addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. There can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, oil and gas and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we provide. Although these companies currently outsource a significant portion of these services, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that they will continue to do so in the future or that they will not acquire additional in-house capabilities.

Employees

As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 32,800 employees, consisting of approximately 8,100 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 24,700 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects that are ongoing and planned at any particular time. Approximately 38% of our employees at December 31, 2017 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multiemployer pension plans and employee benefit trusts. These collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates, and the majority contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewals, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement.

We provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We also have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. We make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee’s contribution up to 3% of that employee’s salary and 50% of each employee’s contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law.

Our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. In response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we support and utilize various training and educational programs and have developed additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs, as described in further detail below.

Training, Quality Assurance and Safety

Performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to hazardous conditions. Although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injury. In response to these inherent hazards and as part of our commitment to employee safety, our operating units have established safety programs, policies and procedures requiring that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to starting work. Additionally, we have implemented an enterprise-wide Automated External Defibrillator (AED) program, which provides AEDs to all of our crews and training to enhance life safety response measures. Our operating units performing more sophisticated and technical jobs utilize, when applicable, training programs provided by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers/National Electrical Contractors Associations (IBEW/NECA) Apprenticeship Program, training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the Pipe Line Contractors Association (PLCA), apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the Canadian Union of Skilled Workers (CUSW) or our equivalent programs. Under the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete classroom education and on-the-job training, as well as extensive testing and certification. Certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program. Similarly, the CUSW offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians that requires classroom education and on-the-job training. In addition, the Laborers International Union of North America, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, the United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters and the International Union of Operating Engineers have training 

5

programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. Our operating units also share best practices for training and educational programs and safety policies.

We have also continued to invest in our internal education and training capabilities. We recently expanded our training facility to add training for beginning linemen, lead and cable splicing and directional drilling in addition to our existing energized electric power and pipeline training. This facility helps us facilitate classroom and on-the-job training programs and allows us to train employees in a controlled environment without the challenges of limited structure access and utility constraints. Additionally, we recently acquired Northwest Lineman College, which has four campuses across the United States and specializes in pre-apprenticeship training, apprenticeship training and specialized utility task training. We expect these capabilities to support future demand for qualified labor in the industries we serve and provide a platform for the development of additional educational and training programs.

Materials

Our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. However, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. As we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings, the cost of materials may become a proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. We do not anticipate experiencing any significant procurement difficulties, as we purchase our required materials from a variety of sources.

Regulation

Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including:

•licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers;

•regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection;

•permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects;

•wage and hour regulations;

•regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements;

•building and electrical codes; and

•special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects.

We believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities.

Environmental Matters and Climate Change Impacts

We are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, liability can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties or currently owned properties at which hazardous substances or wastes were discharged or disposed of by a former owner or operator, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. The presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could also interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or use it as collateral for financing. In addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations or be subject to revocation of certain licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our contracts with customers may also impose liability on us for environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services.

From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance.

6

The potential impact of climate change on our operations is highly uncertain. Climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensity and temperature levels. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in Item 1A. Risk Factors, our operating results are significantly influenced by weather, and significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. For example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could positively impact our revenues and gross margins. Conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. Further, while an increase in severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, blizzards and ice storms, can create a greater amount of emergency restoration service work, it often also can result in delays or other negative consequences for our existing projects, which could negatively impact our financial results. Climate change could also have a negative impact on the demand for fossil fuels, which in turn could negatively impact demand for certain of our services.

Risk Management and Insurance

We are insured for employer’s liability, workers’ compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. Under these programs, the deductible for employer’s liability is $1.0 million per occurrence, the deductible for workers’ compensation is $5.0 million per occurrence, and the deductibles for auto liability and general liability are $10.0 million per occurrence. We manage and maintain a portion of our casualty risk through our wholly-owned captive insurance company, which insures all claims up to the amount of the applicable deductible of our third-party insurance programs. In connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our obligations. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $0.4 million per claimant per year. 

Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. 

We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage exceeds any additional benefits. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Seasonality and Cyclicality

Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, receipt of required regulatory approvals, permits and rights of way, project timing and schedules, and holidays. Please read the section entitled Seasonality; Fluctuations of Results; Economic Conditions included in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Website Access and Other Information

Our website address is www.quantaservices.com. Interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading Investors & Media/Financial Info/SEC Filings or through the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) at www.sec.gov. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters of each of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Governance and Nominating Committee and Investment Committee are posted on our website under the heading Investors & Media/Governance. We intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5.05 of Form 8-K. Free copies of these items may be obtained from our website. We will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC. For copies of this or any other Quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to Quanta Services, Inc., Attn: Corporate Secretary, 2800 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 2600, Houston, TX 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. 

Investors and others should note that we announce material financial information and make other public disclosures of information regarding Quanta through SEC filings, press releases, public conference calls, and our website. We also utilize social media to communicate this information, and it is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed material. 

7

Accordingly, we encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to follow Quanta, and review the information we post, on the social media channels listed on our website in the Investors & Media/Social Media section.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, our website and our social media channels contain information provided by other sources that we believe is reliable. We cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. No information on our website or our social media channels is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 1A.Risk Factors