Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

Dollars in millions  

Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. However, these are not the only risks we face.  

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS  

The deterioration in economic conditions that began in 2007 affected our business in several ways. Elevated unemployment, the tightening of consumer credit and the decline in the housing and stock markets in the United States all contributed to a reduction in consumer spending, which in turn had a negative impact on our revenues. We sell high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories, which many consumers consider to be discretionary items. During economic downturns, fewer customers may shop in our stores and on our website, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases, all of which may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending in response to lower demand. The deterioration of economic conditions also adversely affected our credit customers’ payment patterns and delinquency rates, increasing our bad debt expense. Our business has improved and some macroeconomic indicators suggest that a modest economic recovery has begun, however key factors such as employment levels, consumer credit and housing market conditions remain weak. A sluggish economic recovery or a renewed downturn could have a significant adverse effect on our business.  

In addition, many states where we conduct business are facing significant budget shortfalls as a result of the economic downturn, and may seek to address those shortfalls through unfavorable changes in tax laws and interpretation of existing laws. An increase in our tax liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations.  

IMPACT OF COMPETITIVE MARKET FORCES  

The fashion specialty retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with other national, regional and local retail establishments that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, boutiques and Internet businesses. If we are unable to remain competitive in the key areas of customer service, fashion newness, quality of products, the shopping experience across all channels, depth of selection, store environment and location, we may lose market share to our competitors and our sales and profitability could suffer.  

Our Credit segment faces competition from large banks and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. Many of our competitors offer general-purpose credit card products with a variety of loyalty programs. In addition, there is intense competition for cardholders with “prime” credit ratings who make up a significant portion of our credit portfolio. If we do not effectively respond to the competitive banking and credit card environment, we could lose market share to our competitors, which would have an adverse effect on our credit business.  

AVAILABILITY AND COST OF MERCHANDISE  

Our relationships with our merchandise vendors have been a significant contributor to our success and our position as a retailer of high-quality fashion merchandise. We have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our key vendors, many of whom limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise. Competition to obtain and sell this merchandise is intense. Nearly all of the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers, and many of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores. If one or more of our top vendors were to limit or reduce our access to their merchandise, our business could be adversely affected. Further, if our merchandise costs increase due to increased raw material or labor costs or other factors, our ability to respond or the effect of our response could adversely affect our sales or gross margins.  

ABILITY TO RESPOND TO CONSUMER PREFERENCES AND FASHION TRENDS  

We strive to ensure the merchandise we offer and our shopping experience remain current and compelling to our customers. We make decisions regarding inventory purchases well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. Therefore, our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns, and to match our merchandise levels, mix and shopping experience to sales trends and consumer tastes, significantly impacts our sales and operating results. If we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may harm our ability to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. If we purchase too much inventory, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at higher average markdown levels and lower average margins, which could harm our business. Conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and damage our relationships with our customers.  

GROWTH STRATEGY  

Our strategic growth plan includes opening new Nordstrom full-line and Nordstrom Rack stores, with 6 announced Nordstrom full-line and 18 announced Nordstrom Rack store openings, the majority of which will occur by 2012. The availability and cost of suitable locations for our stores depends on a number of factors, including competition from other retailers and businesses, local land use and other regulations, new shopping center construction and developers’ financial condition. New store openings also involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. Our sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could adversely affect our return on investment.  

We are also pursuing other growth opportunities, which may include acquisitions of, or investments in, other businesses, as well as new technologies or other investments to improve the customer shopping experience in our stores and online. If these investments do not perform as expected, our profitability and growth could be adversely affected.  

6  

Table of Contents 

LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND SUCCESSION PLANNING  

The training and development of our future leaders is important to our long-term success. If we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop future leaders, our business may suffer. We rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace. If unexpected leadership turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any negative perceptions of our business as a result of those losses, could damage our brand image and our business.  

MERCHANDISE PLANNING  

We are making investments to improve our multi-channel merchandise planning, procurement and allocation capabilities. These efforts involve changes in personnel, processes and technology over a period of several years. If we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute our strategy could be adversely affected. As a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current projections.  

FINANCIAL SYSTEM REFORMS  

The recent financial crisis resulted in increased legislative and regulatory changes affecting the financial industry. The Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “Credit CARD Act”) included new rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. These rules required us to make changes to our credit card business practices and systems, and we expect more regulations and interpretations of the new rules to emerge. Depending on the nature and extent of the full impact from these rules, and any interpretations or additional rules, the revenues and profitability of our Credit segment could be adversely affected.  

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) was enacted in July 2010. It significantly restructures regulatory oversight and other aspects of the financial industry, creates a new federal agency to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations and expands state authority over consumer lending. Numerous regulations will be issued in the near future to implement the requirements of this Act. The final regulatory details remain uncertain at this time. Depending on the nature and extent of these regulations, and the enforcement approach of regulators under the new law, there could be an adverse impact to our Credit segment.  

INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY  

The protection of our customer, employee and company data is important to us. Our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. In addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. A significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation, our brand and our relationship with our customers and result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in disruption of our operations.  

CONSUMER CREDIT  

Our credit card operations help drive sales in our stores, allow our stores to avoid third-party transaction fees and generate additional revenues from extending credit. Our credit card revenues and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends, laws and regulations and other factors. Elevated levels of unemployment have historically corresponded with increased credit card delinquencies and write-offs, which may continue in the future. Further, these economic conditions could impair our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the criteria and/or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses. This could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations.  

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY  

Our access to debt and equity capital, and our ability to invest capital to maximize the total returns to our shareholders, is critical to our long-term success. We utilize capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Our ability to obtain capital and the cost of the capital depend on company performance, financial market conditions and independent rating agencies’ short- and long-term debt ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. If our access to capital is restricted or if our cost of capital increases, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows and returns to shareholders could be adversely affected.  

BRAND AND REPUTATION  

We have a well-recognized brand that consumers may associate with a high level of customer service and quality merchandise. Any significant damage to our brand or reputation could negatively impact sales, reduce employee morale and productivity and diminish customer trust, any of which would harm our business.  

 Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries     7   

Table of Contents 

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY  

We make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. In 2011, we expect to spend approximately $185 on information technology operations and systems development, which is key to our growth. We must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. Excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from the technology. Targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs may result in the loss of our competitive position. In addition, if we do not maintain our current systems we may see interruptions to our business and increase our costs in order to bring our systems up to date.  

HEALTH CARE REFORM  

In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Health Care Reform Acts”) were signed into law. These laws include numerous health care related provisions which will take effect over a four year period beginning in 2010. Increased costs required to meet the requirements of the Health Care Reform Acts and any interpretations or additional rules resulting from the Acts could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if it is necessary to make changes to the health benefits provided to our employees as a result of the Health Care Reform Acts, we may not be able to offer competitive health care benefits to attract and retain employees.  

LAWS, REGULATIONS AND LITIGATION  

Our policies, procedures and practices are designed to comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC, NYSE, the banking industry and foreign countries, which may change from time to time. These laws and regulations are complex, continuously evolving and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of California, which has increased the cost of compliance. Significant legislative changes, including those that relate to employment matters, could impact our relationship with our workforce, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. Possible legislative changes include changes to an employer’s obligation to recognize collective bargaining units. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, civil and criminal liability, increased cost of regulatory compliance, restatements of our financial statements, disruption of our business and loss of customers. Any required changes to our employment practices could result in the loss of employees, reduced sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale and harm to our business and results of operations. In addition, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. Litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and financial condition.  

BUSINESS CONTINUITY  

Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by supply chain disruptions, severe weather patterns, natural disasters, widespread pandemics and other natural or man-made disruptions. We derive a significant amount of our total sales from stores located on the west and east coasts, particularly in California, which increases our exposure to conditions in these regions. These disruptions could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales; staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers, or corporate offices; interruptions in the flow of merchandise to our stores; disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers; increased costs; and a negative impact on our reputation and long-term growth plans.  

ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS  

We are incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, one provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (an “acquiring person”) for a period of five years following the time that the shareholder became an acquiring person.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

Item 2. Properties.