Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts  

OVERVIEW  

Nordstrom is a fashion specialty retailer offering high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men and children. We offer a wide selection of brand name and private label merchandise through various channels: our ‘Nordstrom’ branded full-line stores and website, our off-price ‘Nordstrom Rack’ stores and our ‘Jeffrey’ boutiques. Our stores are located throughout the United States. In addition, we offer our customers a variety of payment products and services, including credit and debit cards with an associated loyalty program.  

We started to experience positive momentum in our business in the second half of 2009, which continued throughout 2010, allowing us to achieve record sales and inventory turnover and increased gross profit. This reflected our ongoing efforts in multi-channel execution, merchandising and inventory management, combined with store expansion and other growth initiatives and, most important, improving customer service. We strive to provide an outstanding customer experience, regardless of channel, with a balanced offering of compelling new fashion and a high level of service. Our multi-channel capabilities allow us to better serve our customers by offering greater access to our inventory and making it easier for them to shop with us however and whenever they choose. We are continuing to invest in these capabilities as part of our commitment to provide a superior shopping experience.  

Our strong financial position has enabled us to continue to invest in our business during the economic downturn through store growth and remodels, technology, merchandising systems and other opportunities. During 2010, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores and seventeen Nordstrom Rack stores, and relocated one Nordstrom full-line store and one Nordstrom Rack store. Overall, our new stores are delivering a high return on investment while allowing us to expand our presence in top retail markets across the country. In 2011, we plan to open three Nordstrom full-line stores and seventeen Nordstrom Rack stores, and to relocate two Nordstrom Rack stores. We are also working to improve the customer experience by investing in areas such as mobile shopping and sales floor tools, social media and updated merchandise allocation and assortment systems in order to evolve with our customers’ changing needs and expectations.  

Our credit business began to recover during 2010 as economic conditions improved. Customer payment rates have returned to pre-recession levels, resulting in improved delinquency and write-off trends, while our credit and debit card volumes have increased. We continue to open accounts with high credit quality.  

In February 2011, we reached an agreement to acquire HauteLook, Inc., a leader in the online private sale marketplace. This acquisition, which we expect to close during the first quarter of 2011, will enable us to participate in this fast-growing channel and provide a platform that can lead to greater innovation and speed in the way we serve customers in all channels.  

We begin 2011 in a strong position and are gaining market share in a competitive retail industry. Our customer-driven model enables us to adapt quickly to the changing consumer environment. We continue to operate under a solid financial framework focused on creating a superior shopping experience for our customers and producing high returns for our shareholders.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Our reportable segments are Retail and Credit. Our Retail segment includes our Nordstrom branded full-line stores and online store, and our Nordstrom Rack and Jeffrey stores. For purposes of discussion and analysis of our results of operations, we combine our Retail segment results with revenues and expenses in the “Corporate/Other” column of our segment reporting footnote (collectively, the “Retail Business”). We analyze our results of operations through earnings before interest and income taxes for our Retail Business and Credit, while interest expense, income taxes and net earnings are discussed on a total company basis.  

 Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries     17   

Table of Contents 

Retail Business  

Summary  

The following table summarizes the results of our Retail Business for the fiscal years ended January 29, 2011, January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Retail Business Net Sales  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1Prior to February 2010, merchandise purchased from our online store that was later returned to our Nordstrom full-line stores was reported as a deduction from Nordstrom full-line store sales. Beginning in February 2010, we now deduct these returns from Direct sales instead of from Nordstrom full-line store sales in order to better align sales and sales returns within each channel. For purposes of comparison, 2009 and 2008 net sales results for both Nordstrom full-line stores and Direct have been revised to reflect this realignment of returns. This realignment of sales returns between channels had no effect on total Retail segment sales.  

NET SALES – 2010 VS 2009  

Net sales for 2010 increased 12.7% compared with 2009. During the year, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores, relocated one Nordstrom full-line store, opened seventeen Nordstrom Rack stores and relocated one Nordstrom Rack store. These stores represented 3.3% of our total net sales for 2010, and increased our gross square footage by 4.7%. Same-store sales increased 8.1%, with increases of 9.3% at Nordstrom and 0.7% at Nordstrom Rack.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Nordstrom net sales were $7,700, up 11.2% compared with 2009, with same-store sales up 9.3%. The number of sales transactions increased in 2010 compared with 2009, while the average selling price of Nordstrom merchandise was approximately flat. Category highlights included jewelry, shoes and dresses. The Midwest and South were the top-performing geographic regions for 2010. Our sales growth was due in large part to the success of our merchandising, inventory management and multi-channel initiatives. In the fall of 2009, we updated our inventory platform to allow for shared inventory across all of our Nordstrom full-line stores and our website, allowing us to fulfill online orders from any full-line store or from our fulfillment center. These enhancements increased sales and led to significant improvements in our sell-through and inventory turnover rates beginning in the second half of 2009 and continuing throughout 2010.  

Nordstrom Rack net sales were $1,720, up 19.5% compared with 2009, while same-store sales increased 0.7% for the year. Cosmetics and shoes were the strongest performing categories for the year. The number of sales transactions increased in 2010 compared with 2009, partially offset by declines in the average selling price of Nordstrom Rack merchandise.  

NET SALES – 2009 VS 2008  

Net sales for 2009 were approximately flat compared with 2008. During 2009, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores and thirteen Nordstrom Rack stores. These stores represented 2.6% of our total net sales for 2009, and increased our gross square footage by 4.1% during 2009. Same-store sales decreased 4.2%, with a decrease of 5.0% at Nordstrom, partially offset by an increase of 2.5% at Nordstrom Rack.  

Nordstrom net sales were $6,923, down 2.9% compared with 2008, with same-store sales down 5.0%. Although the number of sales transactions increased compared with 2008, the average selling price of our Nordstrom merchandise decreased. During 2009, we made continued progress on our multi-channel strategy, providing our customers with easier access to more of our merchandise. These enhancements led to increased sales in the second half of the year. Category highlights included women’s shoes, dresses and jewelry. The South and Mid-Atlantic were the top-performing geographic regions for 2009.  

Nordstrom Rack net sales were $1,440, up 16.0% compared with 2008, with same-store sales up 2.5%. The shoes and women’s apparel categories led the positive performance for the year. In 2009, both the average selling price of Nordstrom Rack merchandise and the number of sales transactions increased compared with 2008.  

Retail Business Gross Profit  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1Gross profit is calculated as net sales less Retail Business cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs. Retailers do not uniformly record the costs of buying and occupancy and supply chain operations (freight, purchasing, receiving, distribution, etc.) between gross profit and selling, general and administrative expense. As such, our gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses and rates may not be comparable to other retailers’ expenses and rates.  

2Gross profit rate is calculated as gross profit divided by net sales.  

3Inventory turnover rate is calculated as annual cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments) divided by 4-quarter average inventory.  

GROSS PROFIT – 2010 VS 2009  

Retail gross profit increased $494 in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to higher sales and merchandise margin, partially offset by increases in occupancy costs for new Nordstrom full-line and Nordstrom Rack stores opened during both 2010 and 2009. Our gross profit rate improved 123 basis points compared with 2009 primarily due to improvement in our merchandise margin, as well as leveraging buying and occupancy costs on higher net sales. As a result of our merchandising and multi-channel capabilities, we achieved increases in regular-priced selling along with a higher inventory turnover rate. Our merchandising efforts enabled us to manage inventory levels consistent with sales trends and maintain fresh flow of merchandise into our stores.  

GROSS PROFIT – 2009 VS 2008  

Retail gross profit in 2009 increased $80 from 2008 while our gross profit rate improved 101 basis points. The improvement in 2009 was driven by improvement in our merchandise margin, particularly in the second half of the year. The latter half of 2008 was highly promotional among retailers, meaning many competitors took steep markdowns and/or offered special events or incentives to attract customers, as sales declined. We were able to be less promotional and reduce markdowns during 2009, particularly during the second half of the year, by aligning inventory with sales trends and improving our inventory turnover rate. The improvement in our merchandise margin was offset by an increase in our buying and occupancy costs primarily driven by performance-related incentives that were a result of strong company performance relative to our plans for 2009.  

 Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries     19   

Table of Contents 

Retail Business Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1Selling, general and administrative rate is calculated as selling, general and administrative expenses for our Retail Business as a percentage of net sales.  

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2010 VS 2009  

Our Retail selling, general and administrative expenses (“Retail SG&A”) increased $303 in 2010 compared with 2009. The majority of the increase in expense dollars was due to higher sales volume and expenses for new stores. Our Retail SG&A rate increased 38 basis points for 2010 compared with 2009. The increase was in part due to planned increases in marketing and technology expenses as we continue to reinvest in the business and expand our capabilities in areas such as online marketing and social media. The increased Retail SG&A rate also reflects higher fulfillment costs as we shipped more items to our customers due to the shared inventory platform between our online and full-line stores.  

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2009 VS 2008  

Our Retail SG&A increased $6 due to increased performance-related incentives, partially offset by lower variable expenses in conjunction with lower sales volume and cost savings resulting from our focus on controlling our fixed costs.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Credit Segment  

The Nordstrom credit and debit card products are designed to strengthen customer relationships and grow retail sales by providing valuable services, loyalty benefits and payment products. We believe that owning all aspects of our credit business allows us to fully integrate our rewards program with our retail stores and provide better service to our customers, thus deepening our relationship with them and driving greater customer loyalty. Our Nordstrom private label credit and debit cards can be used only in Nordstrom stores and on our website (“inside volume”), while our Nordstrom VISA cards also may be used for purchases outside of Nordstrom (“outside volume”). Cardholders participate in the Nordstrom Fashion Rewards® program, through which they accumulate points based on their level of spending (generally two points per dollar spent at Nordstrom and one point per dollar spent outside of Nordstrom). Upon reaching two thousand points, customers receive twenty dollars in Nordstrom Notes®, which can be redeemed for goods or services in our stores or online. As customers increase their level of spending they receive additional benefits, including rewards such as complimentary shipping, early access to sale events and unique fashion and shopping events. Our cardholders tend to visit our stores more frequently and spend more with us than non-cardholders. We believe the Fashion Rewards program helps drive sales in our Retail segment.  

The table below provides a detailed view of the operational results of our Credit segment, consistent with the segment disclosure provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In order to better reflect the economic contribution of our credit and debit card program, intercompany merchant fees are also included in the table below. Intercompany merchant fees represent the estimated intercompany income of our Credit segment from the usage of our cards in the Retail segment. To encourage the use of Nordstrom cards in our stores, the Credit segment does not charge the Retail segment an intercompany interchange merchant fee. On a consolidated basis, we avoid costs that would be incurred if our customers used third-party cards.  

Interest expense is assigned to the Credit segment in proportion to the amount of estimated capital needed to fund our credit card receivables, which assumes a mix of 80% debt and 20% equity. The average credit card receivable investment metric included in the following table represents our best estimate of the amount of capital for our Credit segment that is financed by equity. Based on our research, debt as a percentage of credit card receivables for other credit card companies ranges from 70% to 90%. We believe that debt equal to 80% of our credit card receivables is appropriate given our overall capital structure goals.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries     21   

Table of Contents 

Credit Card Revenues  

Credit card revenues include finance charges, interchange fees, late fees and other fees. Finance charges represent interest earned on unpaid balances while late fees are assessed when cardholders pay less than their minimum balance by the payment due date. Interchange fees are earned from the use of Nordstrom VISA credit cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom.  

CREDIT CARD REVENUES – 2010 VS 2009  

Credit card revenues increased $20 in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to higher late fees, particularly in the first half of the year. As the year progressed, improving economic conditions led to an increase in general consumer spending, improved payment rates, lower revolving balances and reduced delinquencies. Our average credit card receivable balance in 2010 was $2,088, a decrease of $11, or 0.5%, from 2009.  

Slightly higher average annual percentage rates, partially offset by lower revolving balances from improvements in customer payment rates, resulted in a small increase in finance charges to $266, or 12.7% of average credit card receivables in 2010 compared with $264, or 12.6% of average credit card receivables in 2009. Increased use of our Nordstrom VISA credit cards at third parties resulted in an increase in interchange revenue to $76, or 3.7% of average credit card receivables in 2010 compared with $71, or 3.4% of average credit card receivables in 2009. Delinquencies increased during the first half of 2010 compared with the first half of 2009. Additionally, legal and regulatory changes in 2009 and 2010 affected our pricing and billing terms. Taken together, these factors resulted in an increase in late fees and other revenue to $48, or 2.3% of average credit card receivables in 2010 compared with $35, or 1.7% of average receivables in 2009.  

CREDIT CARD REVENUES – 2009 VS 2008  

Credit card revenues increased to $370 in 2009 compared with $302 in 2008 due primarily to higher finance charges and late fees. Worsening economic conditions led to a decline in general consumer spending, reduced payment rates, increased revolving balances and increased delinquencies. Our average credit card receivable balance in 2009 was $2,099, an increase of $188, or 9.8%, over 2008.  

Increased revolving balances, combined with an increase in our annual percentage rate terms implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008, resulted in an increase in finance charges to $264, or 12.6% of average credit card receivables in 2009. This compared with $215, or 11.3% of average credit card receivables in 2008. Increased delinquencies resulted in an increase in late fees and other revenue to $35, or 1.7% of average credit card receivables in 2009, compared with $18, or 0.9% of average credit card receivables in 2008.  

Credit Segment Interest Expense  

Interest expense decreased to $21 in 2010 from $41 in 2009 and $50 in 2008. These year-over-year decreases were due to lower interest rates.  

Credit Segment Cost of Sales and Related Buying and Occupancy Costs  

Cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs, which includes the estimated cost of Nordstrom Notes that will be issued and redeemed under our Fashion Rewards program, increased to $66 in 2010 compared with $55 in 2009 and $50 in 2008. The increases were due to a higher number of Fashion Rewards customers, larger average spend per customer, increased inside volume and increased utilization of program benefits. We provide these benefits to our customers as participation in the Fashion Rewards program generates enhanced customer loyalty and incremental sales in our stores.  

Credit Segment Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Credit segment (“Credit SG&A”) are made up of operational and marketing expenses, and bad debt. These expenses are summarized in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2010 VS 2009  

Total Credit SG&A decreased $83 in 2010 compared with 2009, due primarily to lower bad debt expense, partially offset by increases in operational and marketing expenses. The decrease in bad debt expense reflects continued improvement in our credit trends which are further discussed below. Operational and marketing expenses are incurred to support and service our credit and debit card products and the related rewards programs. The increase in these expenses in 2010 was primarily driven by increased information technology expenses, higher collection agency fees from increased recovery efforts and expenses related to our Fashion Rewards program.  

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2009 VS 2008  

Total Credit SG&A increased $82 in 2009 compared with 2008 due primarily to increased bad debt expense. The increase in bad debt expense reflects higher write-offs due to consumer credit trends which are further discussed below.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Allowance for Credit Losses and Credit Trends  

The following table illustrates activity in the allowance for credit losses for the past three fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

CREDIT TRENDS – 2010 VS 2009  

During 2010, our delinquency and net write-off results improved. Write-offs were higher during the first half of 2010, reflecting accounts that became delinquent during the second half of 2009. By the fourth quarter of 2010, net write-offs were $39, or 7.2% of average credit card receivables compared with $56, or 10.5% of average credit card receivables in the fourth quarter of 2009. As a result of the continued improvements in our delinquency and write-off results, including in California, we reduced our allowance for credit losses by $45 during 2010, from $190 to $145.  

CREDIT TRENDS – 2009 VS 2008  

Delinquency rates and write-offs ran at elevated levels throughout 2009 as a result of economic conditions, including rising unemployment. California experienced particular weakness relative to our other geographic regions and accounted for approximately 50% of our write-offs. In light of the economic environment and based on our delinquency and write-off trends, we increased our allowance for credit losses by $52, from $138 to $190 in 2009.  

CREDIT QUALITY  

The quality of our credit card receivables at any time reflects, among other factors, general economic conditions, the creditworthiness of our cardholders and the success of our account management and collection activities. In general, credit quality tends to decline, and the risk of credit losses tends to increase, during periods of deteriorating economic conditions. Through our underwriting and risk management standards and practices, we seek to maintain a high quality cardholder portfolio, thereby mitigating our exposure to credit losses. As of January 29, 2011, 76.2% of our credit card receivables were from cardholders with FICO scores of 660 or above (generally considered “prime” according to industry standards) compared with 71.2% as of January 30, 2010.  

Recent Regulatory Changes  

In May 2009, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “Credit CARD Act”) was passed, resulting in new restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. These rules required us to make changes to our credit card business practices and systems. We have completed and implemented the necessary changes and new procedures to enable compliance with those rules that are currently effective, and we expect more regulations and interpretations of the new rules to emerge. Depending on the nature and extent of the full impact from these rules, and any interpretations or additional rules, the practices, revenues and profitability of our Credit segment could be adversely affected.  

In addition, on July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted. This law significantly restructures regulatory oversight and other aspects of the financial industry. It creates a new federal agency to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations and expands state authority over consumer lending. Numerous regulations will be issued within the next year to implement the requirements of this Act. The final regulatory details remain highly uncertain at this time. Depending on the nature and extent of these regulations, and the enforcement approach of regulators under the new law, there could be an adverse impact to our Credit segment.  

 Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries     23   

Table of Contents 

Total Company Results  

Interest Expense, Net  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET – 2010 VS 2009  

Interest expense, net decreased $11 in 2010 compared with 2009 due to lower interest rates, partially offset by higher debt balances.  

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET – 2009 VS 2008  

Interest expense, net increased $7 in 2009 compared with 2008 due to higher average debt levels resulting from the $400 debt offering in the second quarter of 2009, partially offset by the $250 senior notes which matured in January 2009 and the impact of declining variable interest rates.  

Income Tax Expense  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table illustrates the components of our effective tax rate for 2010, 2009 and 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

INCOME TAX EXPENSE – 2010 VS 2009  

The increase in the effective tax rate for 2010 compared with 2009 was primarily due to the impact of a non-recurring benefit of approximately $12 from a deferred tax adjustment during the first quarter of 2009 related to the closure of our 2007 federal tax return audit.  

INCOME TAX EXPENSE – 2009 VS 2008  

In 2009 and 2008, our effective tax rate was impacted by adjustments related to our deferred tax assets primarily driven by the closure of several tax years under audit, as well as permanent items related to investment valuation.  

24  

Table of Contents 

Fourth Quarter Results  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our fourth quarter performance reflected continued improvement in our sales and gross margin trends throughout the year. Net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2010 were $232, or $1.04 per diluted share compared with $172, or $0.77 per diluted share in 2009.  

NET SALES  

Total sales for the quarter increased 10.9% to $2,816. During the quarter, we opened one Nordstrom Rack store. Same-store sales increased 6.7%, with increases of 7.2% at Nordstrom and 3.9% at Nordstrom Rack.  

Nordstrom same-store sales increased 7.2% for the quarter. Both the number of sales transactions and the average selling price of our merchandise increased for the quarter ended January 29, 2011 compared with the same period last year. Category highlights for the quarter were jewelry, dresses and shoes. The South and Midwest were the top-performing geographic regions relative to the fourth quarter of 2009. We continued to drive sales growth through customer service, our merchandise offering and multi-channel capabilities.  

Nordstrom Rack net sales increased $93, or 24.1% for the quarter. Nordstrom Rack same-store sales increased 3.9% for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with the fourth quarter of 2009. The increase in part reflects a promotional event that occurred during the quarter. The number of sales transactions increased for the quarter, partially offset by decreases in the average selling price of Rack merchandise. Cosmetics, accessories and shoes were the leading categories for Nordstrom Rack.  

GROSS PROFIT  

Our gross profit rate increased 34 basis points to 37.6% from 37.3% last year. The improvement was mainly driven by our ability to leverage buying and occupancy expenses during the quarter as well as a slight improvement in merchandise margin. As a result of our merchandising and multi-channel capabilities, we achieved increases in regular priced selling and in our inventory turnover rate. We ended the quarter with inventory per square foot up 3.8% on a 6.0% increase in sales per square foot compared with the fourth quarter of 2009.  

SELLING, GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES  

Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Retail Business increased $66 compared with last year’s fourth quarter. The increase was largely driven by higher sales volume, and by expenses for the three Nordstrom stores and seventeen Nordstrom Rack stores opened since the fourth quarter of 2009. Our Retail SG&A rate decreased approximately 10 basis points primarily due to the timing of performance-related expenses, partially offset by higher overhead expenses related to technology and marketing as we continued to invest in improving the customer experience.  

In the fourth quarter, selling, general and administrative expenses for our Credit segment were $55, down from $106 in 2009. The decrease was primarily driven by lower bad debt expense resulting from continued improvements in our credit trends.  

For further information on our quarterly results in 2010 and 2009, refer to Note 15 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  

 Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries     25   

Table of Contents 

2011 Outlook  

Our expectations for 2011, excluding the impact of our HauteLook acquisition, are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1Includes both our Retail gross profit and the cost of our loyalty program, which is recorded in our Credit segment, as a percentage of net sales.  

2Selling, general and administrative rate is calculated as SG&A expense for the total company as a percentage of net sales.  

We plan to open three Nordstrom full-line stores and seventeen Nordstrom Rack stores and relocate two Nordstrom Rack stores during 2011. This will increase our retail square footage by approximately 4.3%.  

We expect our gross profit rate to remain approximately flat in 2011, after the significant improvement experienced in 2010.  

The majority of the increase in our Retail SG&A expenses relates to our expectations for increased variable expenses consistent with the planned increase in sales, to additional expenses from stores opened during 2010 and 2011, and to strengthening our capabilities to enable continued improvement in the customer experience.  

For our Credit segment, we expect a slight increase in credit card revenues as a result of increased volume, offset by higher payment rates. We expect Credit SG&A expenses to be flat to down slightly when compared with 2010 results, which included $45 of reductions in our allowance for credit losses.  

Interest expense, net is anticipated to be flat to down slightly due primarily to lower borrowing facility fees.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) (Non-GAAP financial measure)  

We define Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) as follows:  

     ROIC =    

Net Operating Profit After Taxes (NOPAT)     

     Average Invested Capital    

We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating our operating performance. When analyzed in conjunction with our net earnings and total assets and compared to return on assets (net earnings divided by average total assets), it provides investors with a useful tool to evaluate our ongoing operations and our management of assets from period to period. ROIC is one of our key financial metrics, and we also incorporate it into our executive incentive measures. We believe that overall performance as measured by ROIC correlates directly to shareholders’ return over the long term. For the 12 fiscal months ended January 29, 2011, our ROIC increased to 13.6% compared with 12.1% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 30, 2010. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP, should not be considered a substitute for return on assets, net earnings or total assets as determined in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is return on assets, which increased to 8.6% from 7.1% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 29, 2011, compared with the 12 fiscal months ended January 30, 2010. The following is a comparison of return on assets to ROIC:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our operating leases as if we had classified them as capital or purchased the property. Asset base is calculated as described in footnote 5 below.  

2Based upon our effective tax rate multiplied by the net operating profit for the 12 fiscal months ended January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010.  

3Based upon the trailing 12-month average.  

4Based upon the trailing 12-month average for accounts payable, accrued salaries, wages and related benefits, and other current liabilities.  

5Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base, which is calculated as the trailing 12-months rent expense multiplied by 8.  

Our ROIC increased compared with the prior year primarily due to an increase in our earnings before interest and income taxes. This was partly offset by an increase in our average invested capital, attributable primarily to growth in cash and cash equivalents.  

 Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries     27   

Table of Contents 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

We maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to maintain appropriate levels of short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows and available credit facilities are sufficient to finance our cash requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.  

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain our solid financial position and allow flexibility for strategic initiatives. We regularly assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and other future investments. We believe our existing cash on-hand, operating cash flows, available credit facilities and potential future borrowings will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives.  

Operating Activities  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,177 in 2010 and $1,251 in 2009. The majority of our operating cash inflows are derived from sales. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our merchandise vendors (net of vendor allowances), payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short- and long-term borrowings.  

The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2010 compared with 2009 was due primarily to working capital initiatives undertaken in 2009, which resulted in increased cash generated from operating activities in that year. Additionally, in 2010, we made higher payments for performance-related incentives and income taxes compared with 2009, relating to the improved earnings performance we experienced in 2009 as compared with 2008.  

In 2011, we expect our operating cash flows to increase as a result of higher sales and earnings.  

Investing Activities  

Net cash used in investing activities was $462 in 2010 and $541 in 2009. Our investing cash flows primarily consist of capital expenditures and changes in credit card receivables associated with cardholder purchases outside of Nordstrom using our Nordstrom VISA credit cards.  

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES  

Our capital expenditures over the last three years totaled $1,322, with $399 in 2010, $360 in 2009 and $563 in 2008. Capital expenditures included investments in new stores and relocations, remodels and information technology improvements.  

Capital expenditures increased in 2010 compared with 2009 due to greater store remodel activity and the timing of expenditures incurred for new stores. The following table summarizes our store count and square footage activity for the past three fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Additionally, we relocated one Nordstrom full-line store and one Nordstrom Rack store in 2010, compared with one Nordstrom full-line store in 2009. Our 2010 store openings and relocations increased our gross square footage by 4.7%.  

To date in 2011, we have opened three Nordstrom Rack stores. During the remainder of 2011, we anticipate opening three Nordstrom full-line stores and fourteen additional Nordstrom Rack stores, as well as relocating two Nordstrom Rack stores. This will increase our gross square footage by approximately 4.3%.  

28  

Table of Contents 

We received property incentives from our developers of $95 in 2010, $96 in 2009 and $119 in 2008. These incentives are included in our cash provided by operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows. However, operationally we view these as an offset to our capital expenditures. Our capital expenditure percentages, net of property incentives, for the last three years by category are summarized as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other capital expenditures consist of ongoing improvements to our stores in the ordinary course of business and expenditures related to various growth initiatives.  

We expect that our capital expenditures, net of property incentives, will be approximately $2,200 over the next five years, with approximately $400 to $440 in 2011. Over these five years, we expect that approximately 72% of our net capital expenditures will be for new store openings, relocations and remodels; 15% for information technology; and 13% for other projects. Our current five-year plans include 22 new stores and 4 relocations announced through 2013, and 2 new stores announced with dates to be determined. These would represent a 6.1% increase in square footage. Of the announced new stores, 18 will be Nordstrom Rack stores. We believe that we have the capacity for additional capital investments should opportunities arise.  

CHANGE IN CREDIT CARD RECEIVABLES ORIGINATED AT THIRD PARTIES  

The Nordstrom VISA credit cards allow our customers to make purchases at merchants outside of our stores and accumulate points for our Nordstrom Fashion Rewards® program. In 2010, net cash outflows from customers’ third-party purchases using their Nordstrom VISA credit cards decreased to $66, compared with $182 in 2009, as a result of improved payment rates.  

Financing Activities  

Net cash used in financing activities was $4 in 2010 compared with $13 provided by financing activities in 2009. Our financing activities include our short-term and long-term borrowing activity, dividends paid and repurchases of common stock.  

SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM BORROWING ACTIVITY  

During 2010, we issued $500 of senior unsecured notes at 4.75%, due May 2020. After deducting the original issue discount, underwriting fees and other expenses of $2, net proceeds from the offering were $498. Additionally, we retired $350 of securitized notes in April 2010 using available cash. We had no short-term borrowings and no amounts outstanding on our revolving line of credit during the year.  

DIVIDENDS  

In 2010, we paid dividends of $167, or $0.76 per share, compared with $139, or $0.64 per share, in 2009. During the second quarter of 2010, we increased our quarterly dividend from $0.16 per share to $0.20 per share. In determining the amount of dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, while taking into consideration our operating performance and capital resources. We plan to target a 25% to 30% dividend payout ratio, which is calculated as our dividend payments divided by net earnings.  

In February 2011, we declared a first quarter dividend of $0.23 per share.  

SHARE REPURCHASES  

In August 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $500 of our outstanding common stock, through January 28, 2012. Under this program, we have repurchased 2.3 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $89, and had $411 in remaining capacity. The actual amount and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will be subject to market conditions and applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules.  

 Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries     29   

Table of Contents 

Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP financial measure)  

We define Free Cash Flow as:  

Free Cash Flow = Net Cash Provided By Operating Activities – Capital Expenditures – Change in Credit Card Receivables Originated at Third Parties – Cash Dividends Paid +/(–) Increase/(Decrease) in Cash Book Overdrafts  

Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and, in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides us with a meaningful analysis of our cash flows. We believe that our ability to generate cash is more appropriately analyzed using this measure. Free Cash Flow is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for operating cash flows as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Free Cash Flow does have limitations:  

   •    Free Cash Flow does not necessarily represent funds available for discretionary use and is not necessarily a measure of our ability to fund our cash needs; and  

   •    Other companies in our industry may calculate Free Cash Flow differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.  

To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Free Cash Flow in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $1,177 and $1,251 for the 12 months ended January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010. The following is a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities and Free Cash Flow:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Credit Capacity and Commitments  

As of January 29, 2011, we had total short-term borrowing capacity available for general corporate purposes of $950. Of the total capacity, we had $650 under our commercial paper program, which is backed by our unsecured revolving credit facility (“revolver”), and $300 under our Variable Funding Note facility (“2007-A VFN”).  

Our $650 revolver, which expires in August 2012, is available for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. Under the terms of the agreement, we pay a variable rate of interest and a facility fee based on our debt rating. Under the revolver, we have the option to increase the revolving commitment by up to $100, to a total of $750, provided that we obtain written consent from the lenders who choose to increase their commitment. During 2010, we had no borrowings under our revolver.  

Our $650 commercial paper program allows us to use the proceeds to fund share repurchases as well as operating cash requirements. Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing borrowing capacity under our revolver by an amount equal to the principal amount of commercial paper. During 2010, we had no outstanding issuances under our $650 commercial paper program.  

During 2010, we renewed our 2007-A VFN. The 2007-A VFN has a capacity of $300 and matures in January 2012. The 2007-A VFN is backed by substantially all of the Nordstrom private label card receivables and a 90% interest in the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables. Borrowings under the 2007-A VFN incur interest based upon the cost of commercial paper issued by a third-party bank conduit plus specified fees. We pay a commitment fee for the notes based on the size of the commitment. During 2010, we had no borrowings against this facility.  

Our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb, also maintains a variable funding facility with a short-term credit capacity of $100. This facility is backed by the remaining 10% interest in the Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables and is available, if needed, to provide liquidity support to Nordstrom fsb. Borrowings under the facility incur interest based upon the cost of commercial paper issued by the third-party bank conduit plus specified fees. During 2010, Nordstrom fsb had no borrowings under this facility.  

We maintain trade and standby letters of credit to facilitate international payments. As of January 29, 2011, we have $10 available under a trade letter of credit, with $6 outstanding. We additionally hold a $15 standby letter of credit, with $12 outstanding under this facility at the end of the year.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Impact of Credit Ratings  

Under the terms of our $650 revolver, any borrowings we may incur will accrue interest at a floating base rate tied to either:  

   (i) LIBOR or  

   (ii) the higher of:  

   a. the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points or  

   b. the prime rate.  

The rate depends upon the type of borrowing incurred, plus in each case an applicable margin. This applicable margin varies depending upon the credit ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt. At the time of this report, our long-term unsecured debt ratings, outlook and resulting applicable margin were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt improve, the applicable margin associated with our borrowings may decrease, resulting in a slightly lower cost of capital under this facility. Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt worsen, the applicable margin associated with our borrowings may increase, resulting in a slightly higher cost of capital under this facility.  

Debt Covenants  

The revolver requires that we maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least two times, and a leverage ratio of not greater than four times. The fixed coverage ratio is defined as:  

Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent (“EBITDAR”) less gross capital expenditures  

Interest expense, net + rent expense  

The leverage ratio is defined as:  

Adjusted Debt  

EBITDAR  

(See additional discussion of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR below).  

As of January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, we were in compliance with these covenants. We will continue to monitor these covenants to ensure that we make any necessary adjustments to our plans and believe that we will remain in compliance with these covenants during 2011.  

 Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries     31   

Table of Contents 

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)  

We define Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR as follows:  

  Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR =      Adjusted Debt 

      EBITDAR 

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our current goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating as well as operate with an efficient capital structure for our size, growth plans and industry. Investment-grade credit ratings are important to maintaining access to a variety of short-term and long-term sources of funding, and we rely on these funding sources to continue to grow our business. We believe a higher ratio, among other factors, could result in rating agency downgrades. In contrast, we believe a lower ratio would result in a higher cost of capital and could negatively impact shareholder returns. As of January 29, 2011, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.2 compared with 2.5 as of January 30, 2010. The decrease was primarily the result of an increase in earnings before interest and income taxes in 2010 compared with 2009.  

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR does have limitations:  

   •    Adjusted Debt is not exact, but rather our best estimate of the total company debt we would hold if we had purchased the property and issued debt associated with our operating leases;  

   •    EBITDAR does not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments, including leases, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt; and  

   •    Other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.  

To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows, capital spending and net earnings. The closest measure calculated using GAAP amounts is debt to net earnings, which was 4.5 and 5.9 for 2010 and 2009. The following is a comparison of debt to net earnings and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

1The components of adjusted debt are as of the end of 2010 and 2009, while the components of EBITDAR are for the 12 months ended January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010.  

2The multiple of eight times rent expense used to calculate adjusted debt is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we had purchased the property.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of January 29, 2011. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $1,638 as of January 29, 2011, payable over the remaining life of the debts.  

The capital and operating lease obligations in the table above do not include payments for operating expenses that are required by most of our lease agreements. Such expenses, which include common area charges, real estate taxes and other executory costs, totaled $65 in 2010, $60 in 2009 and $56 in 2008. In addition, some of our leases require additional rental payments based on a percentage of our sales, referred to as “percentage rent.” Percentage rent, which is also excluded from the obligations in the table above, was $9 in each of 2010, 2009 and 2008.  

Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services and capital expenditure commitments.  

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and general liability insurance reserves and postretirement benefits. The payment amounts presented above were estimated based on historical payment trends. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above. Also excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $21, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash payments, if any, for these liabilities.  

We had no off-balance sheet arrangements, other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business, during 2010.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES  

The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we believe are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures that follow.  

Allowance for Credit Losses  

The allowance for credit losses reflects our best estimate of the losses inherent in our receivables as of the balance sheet date, including uncollectible finance charges and fees. We estimate such credit losses based on several factors, including historical aging and delinquency trends, write-off experience, concentration and risk metrics, and general economic conditions.  

We believe the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover anticipated losses in our credit card receivables under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the factors mentioned above could materially change these expectations. During 2009, increases in unemployment and associated delinquency and write-off trends prompted us to record significant increases to our allowance for credit losses, which increased from $138 at January 31, 2009 to $190 at January 30, 2010. As credit trends began to improve during 2010, we reduced our allowance for credit losses by $45, from $190 at January 30, 2010 to $145 at January 29, 2011. A 10% change in our allowance for credit losses would have affected net earnings by $9 for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011.  

Revenue Recognition  

We recognize revenue from sales at our retail stores at the point of sale, net of an allowance for estimated sales returns. We estimate customer merchandise returns based on historical return patterns and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly.  

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, there is a possibility that actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of our sales return reserve. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had a $5 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 29, 2011.  

 Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries     33   

Table of Contents 

Inventory  

Our merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories and the resulting gross margins are determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margin.  

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Our obsolescence reserve contains uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.  

We do not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence reserve. A 10% change in the obsolescence reserve would not have had a material effect on our net earnings for the year ended January 29, 2011.  

Income Taxes  

We regularly evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances and information available to us. If we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained, we recognize a benefit at the largest amount which we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our unrecognized tax benefit was $43 as of both January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010.  

Unrecognized tax benefits require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits and our particular facts and circumstances. Also, as audits are completed or statutes of limitations lapse, it may be necessary to record adjustments to our taxes payable, deferred tax assets, tax reserves or income tax expense. Such adjustments did not materially impact our effective income tax rate in 2010, but reduced our effective income tax rate by 1.8 percentage points in 2009.  

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect any of these pronouncements to have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.