PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

“Newell Brands” or the “Company” refers to Newell Brands Inc. (formerly, Newell Rubbermaid Inc.) alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we,” “us” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. The Company was founded in Ogdensburg, NY in 1903 and is incorporated in Delaware. The Company’s principal executive office is located at 221 River Street, Hoboken, New Jersey 07030, and the Company’s telephone number is 201-610-6600.

Website Access to Securities and Exchange Commission Reports

The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellbrands.com. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K.

GENERAL

Newell Brands is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that help people make life better every day, where they live, learn, work and play. Our products are marketed under a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Paper Mate®, Sharpie®, Dymo®, Expo®, Parker®, Elmer’s®, Coleman®, Jostens®, Marmot®, Rawlings®, Irwin®, Lenox®, Oster®, Sunbeam®, FoodSaver®, Mr. Coffee®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Graco®, Baby Jogger®, NUK®, Calphalon®, Rubbermaid®, Contigo®, First Alert®, Waddington and Yankee Candle®. The Company sells its products in nearly 200 countries around the world and has operations on the ground in nearly 100 of these countries.

This past year was one of the most transformational in its history as the Company more than doubled its size and extended its successful operating model across a broader set of categories acquired through the combination with Jarden Corporation. On April 15, 2016, Jarden Corporation (“Jarden”) became a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Newell Brands Inc. Jarden is a global consumer products company with brands such as Yankee Candle®, Crock-Pot®, FoodSaver®, Mr. Coffee®, Oster®, Coleman®, First Alert®, Rawlings®, Jostens®, K2®, Marker®, Marmot®, Völkl® and many others. Following the Jarden Acquisition, the Company was renamed Newell Brands Inc. 

This transformative transaction created a global consumer goods company with estimated annualized sales for 2016 of $16 billion and a portfolio of leading brands in large, growing, unconsolidated, global markets. The scaled enterprise is expected to accelerate profitable growth over time with leading brands in a global market that exceeds $100 billion, with business and capability development supported by the efficiencies of the combined company. Management believes the scale of Newell Brands in key categories, channels and geographies creates a much broader opportunity to deploy the Company’s advantaged set of brand development and commercial capabilities for accelerated growth and margin expansion. The Company’s intent is to design a benchmarked, efficient set of structures that support long-term business development.

The Company anticipates significant annualized cost synergies will be realized by Newell Brands, driven by efficiencies of scale and efficiencies in procurement, cost to serve and infrastructure. The Company anticipates incremental annualized cost synergies of at least $500 million over four years, driven by efficiencies of scale and new efficiencies in procurement, cost to serve and infrastructure that the combination unlocks. The Company currently expects to incur approximately $500 million of restructuring and integration-related costs over the same period to generate and unlock the more than $500 million of annualized cost synergies. 

After the completion of the Jarden Acquisition, the Company initiated a comprehensive strategic assessment of the business and in the third quarter of 2016 launched a new corporate strategy that focuses the portfolio, prioritizes investment in the categories with the greatest potential for growth, and extends the Company’s advantaged capabilities in insights, product design, innovation, and e-commerce to the broadened portfolio. The investments in new capabilities are designed to unlock the growth potential of the portfolio and will be funded by a commitment to release cost savings of $800 million through the combination of the completion of Project Renewal and delivery of $500 million in cost synergies associated with the Jarden integration. This new corporate strategy is called the New Growth Game Plan and builds on the successful track record of growth acceleration, margin development, and value creation associated with the transformation of Newell Rubbermaid Inc. from 2011 through 2016. 

 3
The Company has maintained continuity of operations through 2016 by preserving both legacy organizations’ operating segments. The 2016 segment information includes results of operations of Jarden since the acquisition date and are included in the following segments: Branded Consumables, Consumer Solutions, Outdoor Solutions and Process Solutions. The key brands included in each segment are as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Commercial Products: Rubbermaid Commercial Products® [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Process Solutions: Jarden Plastic Solutions, Jarden Applied Materials and Jarden Zinc Products

During 2016, the Company began the process of driving the New Growth Game Plan into action, announcing a series of portfolio changes. Based on the Company’s strategy to allocate resources to its businesses with the greater right to win in the marketplace, during 2016 the Company divested its Décor business, including Levolor® and Kirsch® window coverings and drapery hardware business, which was included in the Home Solutions segment. Both the divested Décor business and the 2015 divestiture of the Rubbermaid medical cart business, which was included in the Commercial Products segment, did not qualify as discontinued operations pursuant to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”). As a result, the medical cart business was included in the Company’s consolidated results from continuing operations in the Commercial Products segment until it was sold in August 2015, and the Décor business was included in the Company’s consolidated results from continuing operations in the Home Solutions segment until it was sold in June 2016.

During 2016, the Company committed to plans to divest several other businesses and brands to strengthen the portfolio to better align and focus the portfolio for growth and margin development. The affected businesses and brands are as follows: the Tools business, including the Irwin®, Lenox®, and hilmorTM brands in the Tools segment; the Winter Sports business, including the Völkl® and K2® brands and the Zoot® and Squadra® brands in the Outdoor Solutions segment; the heaters, fans, and humidifiers business with related brands in the Consumer Solutions segment; the Rubbermaid® consumer storage totes business in the Home Solutions segment; the Lehigh business, primarily ropes, cordage and chains under the Lehigh® brand and the firebuilding business, including the Pine Mountain® brand in the Branded Consumables segment; and the stroller business under the Teutonia® brand in the Baby and Parenting segment. These divestitures do not qualify as discontinued operations pursuant to U.S. GAAP, and as a result, are and will continue to be included in the Company’s consolidated results from continuing operating in each of the respective segments until the businesses are sold.

In the Company’s 2015 results, the Endicia on-line postage business and the Culinary electrics and retail businesses were classified as discontinued operations based on the Company’s commitment in 2014 to sell these businesses. Endicia was included in the Writing segment and the Culinary businesses were included in the Home Solutions segment. The Company completed the sale of Endicia in November 2015 and ceased operations in its Culinary electrics and retail businesses in the first quarter of 2015.

JARDEN ACQUISITION

On April 15, 2016, Jarden Corporation (“Jarden”) became a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Newell Brands, as a result of a series of merger transactions (the “Jarden Acquisition”). The Jarden Acquisition was effected pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 13, 2015 (the “Merger Agreement”) between the Company, Jarden and two wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company. Following the Jarden Acquisition, the Company was renamed Newell Brands Inc. See Footnote 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. The Company is committed to maintaining its investment grade credit rating by using strong cash flow from the combined enterprise to prioritize debt reduction in the short term, while simultaneously investing in the Company’s growth platforms and maintaining its dividend per share.

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES

Newell Brands is committed to building leading brands through understanding the needs of consumers and using those insights to create innovative, highly differentiated product solutions that offer superior performance and value. As a result of the Jarden Acquisition, the Company’s advertising and promotion investments in support of its brands increased by $217.1 million compared to 2015, and the Company intends to continue to leverage its portfolio of leading brands to create a margin structure that allows for further increases in brand investment. 

 4
During 2016, the Company launched the New Growth Game Plan, which is its strategy to simplify the organization and free up resources to invest in growth initiatives and strengthened capabilities in support of the Company’s brands. The changes being implemented in the execution of the New Growth Game Plan are considered key enablers to building a bigger, faster-growing, more global and more profitable company.

The New Growth Game Plan encompasses the following strategic elements:

The Newell Brands Vision

The Newell Brands vision for the company is grounded in three core characteristics of the business: its geographic reach with sales in nearly 200 countries and territories, its presence in a broad set of large growing household product categories, and its portfolio of leading brands that make a difference in the lives of consumers every day. The Company asserts that through the broad geographic reach of its business system, through its category presence and leading brands that touch consumers at home, in school, at work, and where they play, that Newell Brands can have a big impact on consumers’ lives. The Company’s vision is that Newell Brands makes life better for hundreds of millions of consumers every day, where they live, learn, work, and play.

The Newell Brands DNA and Ambition

The Newell Brands DNA represents an aspirational set of behaviors that define the culture the company aspires to create. The Newell Brands DNA and Ambition serve as a call to action for the Company’s employees, challenging them to grow, transform, lead, and win. The Company captures our ambition with our employees as follows:

We believe growth and scale benefits drive value creation and we achieve our potential by putting the consumer first in everything that we do. Our portfolio is a powerful collection of leading brands in large, growing, unconsolidated global categories. Over time we are choice-fully building a more international business that reaches the consumer wherever they want to buy our brands. Our strategy is designed to achieve meaningful relative market share advantage in our core categories. We will win by combining Brand Development (insights, product design, innovation, brand communication) with Every Day Great Execution, partnering with our customers to build our categories and maximize reach, availability, and visibility. We are a transformative company in the stretching ambitions we pursue. The clarity of our strategy and the decisive way that we put our choices into action is a distinctive characteristic of our leaders. Money flows to growth and we are true to our entrepreneurial roots by focusing on impact in the market place. This process creates growth missions for our empowered teams. We build our people as we build new business. We expect our people and our ideas to be judged as leaders in our business community. Our brands are better together. We win by acting as one operating company that has the scale and capabilities to outgrow, out execute, and out spend our competition. Our strong financial foundation of cash generation creates a platform for scaling this model through strategic M&A in our core categories.

The Newell Brands Portfolio Roles

Newell Brands allocates resources to the business with the greater growth and market share consolidation potential. There are three portfolio roles that shape performance objectives and resource allocation: Win Bigger, Develop for Growth, and Grow Entrepreneurially. 

Win Bigger businesses have innovations and brands that are ready now for investment. Develop for Growth businesses are businesses where investments in insights, design, and innovation can set the stage for future growth acceleration. Both Win Bigger and Develop for Growth businesses are resourced with Brand Development leaders and Commercial Delivery leaders. Grow Entrepreneurially businesses are leaner organizations that leverage the scale of the larger corporation for back office support, but operate as more independent focused organizations.

The Newell Brands Operating Model

As part of the New Growth Game Plan, in late 2016 the Company began to transform from a holding company to an operating company, consolidating its business units into global divisions while investing to extend its design, innovation and brand development capabilities across a broader set of categories. These organization changes were initiated in the third quarter and this major phase of the transformation was completed by year end. These new global divisions will become the key commercial nodes in the Company, including a new Global eCommerce Division, which will have responsibility for all ecommerce activity across the enterprise.The divisions will generally align to the four areas of strategic focus for the Company of Live, Learn, Work, and Play. The new structure will be effective January 1, 2017. 

 5
In 2016, the original business units were run in nine operating segments. The Company’s nine business segments and the key brands included in each of the segments are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Writing

The Company’s Writing segment is comprised of the Writing & Creative Expression business which has market share growth potential by further building strong brands like Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, and Expo® and deploying the portfolio into new geographies, the Elmer’s®, Labeling and Fine Writing businesses that focus investment on innovation and brand support in existing markets. The Writing segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes writing instruments, adhesives, cutting products and labeling solutions, primarily for use in business and the home. The Segment’s largest writing instrument factory is based in the U.S.A (Tennessee - 2). The segment’s product offerings include markers, highlighters, activity-based adhesives, cutting products and everyday and fine writing instruments and accessories. Permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase markers, highlighters and art supplies are primarily sold under the Sharpie®, Expo®, Sharpie® Accent®, Prismacolor® and Mr. Sketch® trademarks. Ballpoint pens and inks, roller ball pens, mechanical pencils and correction supplies are primarily sold under the Paper Mate®, InkJoy®, Uni-Ball® (used under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America and certain areas in Latin America), Sharpie®, Mongol® and Liquid Paper® trademarks. Activity-based adhesives and cutting products are primarily sold under the Elmer’s®, Krazy Glue® (a trademark of Toagosei Co. Ltd. used with permission) and X-Acto® trademarks. Fine writing instruments are primarily sold under the Parker®, Waterman® and Rotring® trademarks. The Writing segment’s on-demand labeling solutions are primarily sold under the Dymo® Office trademark.

The Writing segment generally markets its products directly to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers, travel retail, on-line and other retailers.

Home Solutions

The Company’s Food & Beverage business within the Home Solutions segment is a business with significant growth and geographic expansion opportunities, while the consumer storage and organization, cookware, and hair care accessories businesses within the Home Solutions segment concentrates innovation and investment in the brands in existing markets. The Home Solutions segment 

 6
designs, manufactures or sources and distributes a wide range of consumer products under multiple brand names. The Segment’s largest food storage and cookware factories are based in the U.S.A. (Ohio - 2, Kansas). Indoor/outdoor organization and home storage products are primarily sold under the Rubbermaid® and Roughneck® trademarks. Food storage and on-the-go hydration and thermal bottles are primarily sold under the Rubbermaid®, TakeAlongs®, Contigo®, Avex® and bubba® trademarks. Aluminum and stainless steel cookware and bakeware are sold under the Calphalon® trademark. Hair care accessories and grooming products are marketed primarily under the Goody® trademark.

The Home Solutions segment primarily markets its products directly to mass merchants and specialty, grocery/drug and department stores.

Tools

The Tools segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes hand tools and power tool accessories, industrial bandsaw blades, tools and industrial labeling solutions. The Segment has two key factories that are based in the U.S.A. (Maine, Massachusetts). Hand tools and power tool accessories are primarily sold under the Irwin® trademark, while industrial bandsaw blades and cutting and drilling accessories are sold under the Lenox® trademark. Heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) tools are sold under the hilmorTM trademark, and industrial label makers are sold under the Dymo® trademark.

The Tools segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, industrial/construction outlets and other professional customers. During the fourth quarter of 2016, the Company entered into an agreement to sell the Tools business for an estimated price of $1.95 billion, subject to working capital adjustments. The transaction is expected to close in early 2017, subject to certain customary conditions, including regulatory approvals. 

Commercial Products

The Company’s Commercial Products segment is a business with higher growth opportunities within the framework of the New Growth Game Plan. The Commercial Products segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems and material handling solutions. The Segment’s largest commercial products factory is based in the U.S.A. (Virginia). Rubbermaid Commercial Products® primarily sells its products under the Rubbermaid® and Brute® trademarks.

The Commercial Products segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, commercial products distributors, select contract customers and other professional customers.

Baby & Parenting

The Company’s Baby & Parenting segment focuses on optimizing the business and market share in existing markets and geographies within the framework of the New Growth Game Plan. The Baby & Parenting segment designs and distributes infant and juvenile products such as car seats, strollers, swings, highchairs and playards, and primarily sells its products under the Graco®, Baby Jogger®, City Mini®, City Select®, Aprica® and Teutonia® trademarks. The Baby & Parenting segment sources substantially all of its products.

The Baby & Parenting segment primarily markets its products directly to mass merchants, department stores, distributors and on-line retailers.

Branded Consumables

The Company’s Branded Consumables segment is a legacy Jarden segment that manufactures or sources, markets and distributes a broad line of branded consumer products, many of which are affordable, consumable and fundamental household staples, and primarily sells its products under the Yankee Candle®, Waddington, Ball®, Diamond®, First Alert®, NUK®, Quickie®, Pine Mountain® trademarks. The Segment’s largest candle, playing card, baby nurturing, and plastic cutlery and serve-ware factories are based in the U.S.A. (Massachusetts - 2, Wisconsin, Kentucky). The Company believes the home fragrance business with this segment offers higher growth and geographic expansion opportunities in the New Growth Game Plan, as demonstrated in the January 2017 acquisition of Smith Mountain Industries, a leading provider of premium home fragrance products, primarily under the WoodWick® Candle brand.

The Branded Consumables segment primarily markets its products directly to club, department store, drug/grocery, mass merchant, specialty retailers, casinos and distributors as well as company-operated retail stores and direct to consumer web-based sales for Yankee Candle. 

 7
Consumer Solutions

Consumer Solutions is a legacy Jarden segment that manufactures or sources, markets and distributes a diverse line of household products, including kitchen appliances and home environment products, and primarily sells its products under the Crock-Pot®, FoodSaver®, Holmes®, Mr. Coffee®, Oster®, Rainbow®, and Sunbeam® trademarks. The Consumer Solutions segment also has rights to sell various small appliance products, in substantially all of Europe under the Breville® brand name. The Consumer Solutions segment also utilizes an extensive licensing strategy to extend the reach of the brands across categories, geographies and strategic product extensions. The Consumer Solutions segment focuses investment on innovation and brand support in existing markets within the New Growth Game Plan.

The Consumer Solutions segment primarily markets its products directly to club, department store, drug/grocery, mass merchant, specialty retailers and distributors.

Outdoor Solutions

Outdoor Solutions is a legacy Jarden segment that manufactures or sources, markets and distributes global consumer active lifestyle products for outdoor and outdoor-related activities, and primarily sells its products under the Coleman®, Jostens®, Berkley®, Shakespeare®, Rawlings®, Völkl®, K2®, Marmot® trademarks. The businesses within Outdoor Solutions segment, such as camping, fishing and technical apparel, invest and innovate in brands in existing markets within the New Growth Game Plan.

The Outdoor Solutions segment primarily markets its products directly to club, department store, drug/grocery, mass merchant, sporting goods and specialty retailers and distributors.

Process Solutions

Process Solutions is a legacy Jarden segment that manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of plastic products including closures, contact lens packaging, medical disposables, plastic cutlery and rigid packaging. The materials business produces specialty nylon polymers, conductive fibers and monofilament used in various products. We also manufacture a line of industrial zinc products marketed globally for use in the architectural, automotive, construction, electrical component and plumbing markets. The Segment’s largest factory is based in the U.S.A. (South Carolina).

The Process Solutions segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, commercial products distributors, select contract customers and other professional customers. The zinc products business within the Process Solution segment is the sole source supplier of copper-plated zinc penny blanks to the United States Mint and a major supplier to the Royal Canadian Mint, as well as a supplier of brass, bronze and nickel-plated finishes on steel and zinc for coinage to other international markets.

OTHER INFORMATION

Multi-Product Offering

The Company’s broad product offering in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can assist volume purchasers in selling a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income, and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.

Foreign Operations

Information regarding the Company’s 2016, 2015 and 2014 foreign operations and financial information by geographic area is included in Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s foreign operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.

Please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Company’s Venezuelan operations. 

Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate, glass, plastic, expanded polystyrene, extinguisher powder, 

 8
nylon, paper, plastic resin, sawdust, tin plate, wax and wood, natural rubber, electrical components, glass fiber, magnesium, adhesives, various paper-related packaging materials and metals, including steel, stainless steel, aluminum copper and gold. 

The Company’s resin purchases principally comprise polyethylene, polypropylene and copolyester. Over the long-term, the Company has experienced inflation in raw material prices, labor and sourced products, and in 2016, inflation in labor and sourced products offset deflation in raw material prices. In 2017, the Company expects continued labor and sourced product inflation and moderate inflation in raw material prices. On an annualized basis, resin and metals consumed as raw materials generally represent 8% to 15% of annual cost of products sold, with neither resin nor metals purchased as raw materials individually representing more than 10% of cost of products sold.

The Company also relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. Historically, the Company has experienced inflation in sourced product costs due to currency fluctuations and increased input and labor costs. For a limited number of product lines, a single manufacturer or a limited number of manufacturers may supply substantially all of the finished goods for a product line. In particular, certain businesses within the Baby & Parenting and Home Solutions segments rely on third-party manufacturers for substantially all of their products. Specifically, the Company’s Baby & Parenting segment has a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of Baby & Parenting’s sales and which owns the intellectual property for many of those products.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.

Backlog

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.

Seasonal Variations

Sales of the Company’s products tend to be seasonal, with sales, operating income and operating cash flow in the first quarter generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced volume and the mix of products sold in the first quarter. The seasonality of the Company’s sales volume combined with the accounting for fixed costs, such as depreciation, amortization, rent, personnel costs and interest expense, impacts the Company’s results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company tends to generate the majority of its operating cash flow in the second, third and fourth quarters of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments, customer program payments, working capital requirements and credit terms provided to customers.

Patents and Trademarks

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks are Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Elmer’s®, Parker®, Waterman®, Dymo®, Rubbermaid®, Contigo®, Goody®, Calphalon®, Irwin®, Lenox®, Graco®, Baby Jogger®, Aprica®, Bionaire®, Coleman®, Crock-Pot®, First Alert®, FoodSaver®, Health o Meter®, Holmes®, K2®, Marmot®, Mr. Coffee®, Oster®, Pine Mountain®, Quickie®, Rawlings®, Ride®, Rival®, Shakespeare®, Starterlogg®, Stearns®, Sunbeam® and Völkl®.

Customers/Competition

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, craft stores, direct-to-consumer channels, specialty retailers and wholesalers, commercial distributors, e-commerce companies and Yankee Candle retail stores. Additionally we distribute our Jostens and Waddington products through the academic and achievement channel and foodservice channel, respectively. The dominant share of the market represented by large mass merchandisers, together with consumer shopping patterns, contributes to a market environment in which dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment may limit the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.

Current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, which compete with the Company’s products. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well-established. Our Yankee Candle retail stores compete primarily with specialty candle and personal care retailers and a 

 9
variety of other retailers, including department stores, gift stores and national specialty retailers that carry candles along with personal care items, giftware and housewares.

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining leading brands and differentiated products that deliver superior value and performance; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery; producing and procuring products at a competitive cost; and experienced management. In addition, the Company focuses on building consumer loyalty and increased consumer demand through increased investment in consumer insights and using those insights to develop innovative products and product features that meet consumers’ needs. 

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailers, including discount, drug/grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; contract stationers; and e-commerce companies. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 13.5%, 10.9% and 10.6% of net sales in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, across substantially all segments. The Company’s top-ten customers in 2016 included (in alphabetical order): amazon, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Costco, Lowe’s, Office Depot, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us and Wal-Mart.

Environmental Matters

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report and in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.

Research and Development

The Company’s research and development efforts focus on developing new, differentiated and innovative products to meet consumers’ needs. The Company’s product development efforts begin with consumer insights and the Company has consolidated its consumer marketing and insight capabilities into a global center of excellence and is investing further to strengthen these capabilities. The Company continues to invest to strengthen its product design and research and development capabilities and has consolidated its design and innovation capabilities into a center of excellence. The Company’s enhanced marketing and insight and research and development capabilities have been leveraged to implement a new ideation process throughout the business, resulting in idea fragments that feed the development of product concepts. 

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. 

Employees

As of December 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 53,400 employees worldwide. Approximately 4,500 of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute. Management believes that our relationships with our employees and collective bargaining unions are satisfactory.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS