ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Our business faces many risks and uncertainties that we cannot control. Any of the risks discussed below, as well as factors described in other places in this Form 10-K, or in our other filings with the SEC, could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, these items could cause our future results to differ from those in any of our forward-looking statements. These risks are not the only ones we face. Other risks that we do not presently know about or that we presently believe are not material could also adversely affect us.

Significant increases in prices for raw materials, energy, transportation and other necessary supplies and services, without corresponding increases in our selling prices, could adversely affect our financial results.

Increases in the cost and availability of raw materials, including pulp and petroleum-based materials, the cost of energy, transportation and other necessary services, supplier constraints, an inability to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relations or an inability to avoid disruptions in production output could have an adverse effect on our financial results.

Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or recycled fiber from recovered waste paper, is used extensively in our tissue products and is subject to significant price fluctuations. Cellulose fiber, in the form of fluff pulp, is a key component in our personal care products. In recent years, pulp prices have experienced significant volatility, and this volatility is expected to continue. Increases in pulp prices or limits in the availability of recycled fiber could adversely affect our earnings if selling prices for our finished products are not adjusted or if these adjustments significantly trail the increases in pulp prices. Derivative instruments have not been used to manage these risks.

A number of our products, such as diapers, training and youth pants, feminine pads, incontinence care products, disposable wipes and various health care products, contain certain materials that are principally derived from petroleum. These materials are subject to price fluctuations based on changes in petroleum prices, availability and other factors, with these prices experiencing significant volatility in recent years. We purchase these materials from a number of suppliers. Significant increases in prices for these materials could adversely affect our earnings if selling prices for our finished products do not adjust, if these adjustments significantly trail the increases in prices for these materials, or if we do not utilize substitutes with lower prices for these materials. 

3
PART I

(Continued)

Derivative instruments have not been used to manage these risks.

Our manufacturing operations utilize electricity, natural gas and petroleum-based fuels. To ensure that we use all forms of energy cost-effectively, we maintain ongoing energy efficiency improvement programs at all of our manufacturing sites. Our contracts with energy suppliers vary as to price, payment terms, quantities and duration. Our energy costs are also affected by various market factors including the availability of supplies of particular forms of energy, energy prices and local and national regulatory decisions (including actions taken to address climate change and related market responses). There can be no assurance that we will be fully protected against substantial changes in the price or availability of energy sources. Derivative instruments are used to manage a portion of natural gas price risk in accordance with our risk management policy.

Increased pricing pressure, intense competition for sales of our products and the inability to innovate effectively could have an adverse effect on our financial results.

We compete in highly competitive markets against well-known, branded products and low-cost or private label products both domestically and internationally. Inherent risks in our competitive strategy include uncertainties concerning trade and consumer acceptance, the effects of consolidation within retailer and distribution channels, and competitive actions. Our competitors for these markets include not only our traditional competitors but also private label manufacturers, low-cost manufacturers and rapidly-expanding international manufacturers. Some of these competitors may have increased access to financial resources and increased market penetration, which enable them to offer a wider variety of products and services at more competitive prices. Alternatively, some of these competitors may have significantly lower product development and manufacturing costs, allowing them to offer products at a lower cost. The actions of these competitors could adversely affect our financial results. It may be necessary for us to lower prices on our products and increase spending on advertising and promotions, each of which could adversely affect our financial results.

In addition, we compete in highly competitive regional markets, such as in European personal care and tissue markets, as well as in other areas such as Latin America, Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia. Intense competition in these areas may slow our sales growth and earnings potential, as well as adversely impact our margins.

Our ability to develop new products is affected by whether we can successfully anticipate consumer needs and preferences, develop and fund technological innovations, and receive and maintain necessary patent and trademark protection. In addition, we incur substantial development and marketing costs in introducing new and improved products and technologies. The introduction of a new consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually requires substantial expenditures for advertising and marketing to gain recognition in the marketplace. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising and promotional support to maintain its relative market position. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater financial resources. These competitors may spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions.

We may not be successful in developing new and improved products and technologies necessary to compete successfully in the industry, and we may not be successful in advertising, marketing, timely launching and selling our products.

Global and regional economic conditions, including recessions or slow economic growth, and continuing global and regional credit market volatility, could continue to adversely affect our business and financial results.

The global economy continues to be volatile, with particular regions such as Europe facing uncertain or slow economic growth. These unfavorable economic conditions could negatively impact:

•consumer demand for our products, including shifting consumer purchasing patterns to lower-cost options such as private-label products, as well as declining birth rates in countries due to slow economic growth or other factors,

•demand by businesses for our products, including the effects of increased unemployment and cost savings efforts of customers,

•the social and political environment,

•the product mix of our sales, and

•our ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis from certain customers.

4
PART I

(Continued)

Ongoing volatility in global and regional commodity, currency and financial markets, including in Europe, has continued to result in uncertainty in the business environment. We rely on access to credit markets, specifically the commercial paper and public bond markets, to provide supplemental funding for our operations. Although we have not experienced a disruption in our ability to access credit markets, it is possible that we may have difficulty accessing credit markets in the future, which may disrupt our businesses or further increase our cost of funding our operations.

Prolonged global or regional recessions, slow economic growth or credit market disruptions could result in decreased revenue, margins and earnings.

Changes in the policies of our retail trade customers, increasing dependence on key retailers in developed markets, and the emergence of new sales channels may adversely affect our business.

Our products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace, which continues to experience increased concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. With the consolidation of retail trade, especially in developed markets such as the U.S., Europe and Australia, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, and some of these retailers, including large-format retailers, may have greater bargaining power. They may use this leverage to demand higher trade discounts or allowances which could lead to reduced profitability. We may also be negatively affected by changes in the policies of our retail trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, delisting of our products, additional requirements related to safety, environmental, social and other sustainability issues, and other conditions. If we lose a significant customer or if sales of our products to a significant customer materially decrease, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, the emergence of new sales channels may affect customer preferences and market dynamics and could adversely impact our financial results. These new channels include sales of consumer and other products via e-commerce, as well as the growth of large-format retailers and discounters that exclusively sell private-label products.

Pending litigation, administrative actions, tax matters, regulatory requirements and new legal requirements could have an adverse effect.

As a global company, during the course of our business we are subject to various legal and administrative actions in which we assert our rights under various laws, including intellectual property laws. We may not be successful in defending against these actions or in asserting these rights. In addition, we could incur substantial costs in defending against, or in asserting our rights in, these actions.

We are subject to income tax requirements in various jurisdictions in the United States and internationally. Many of these jurisdictions face budgetary shortfalls or have volatile enforcement activity. Increases in applicable tax rates, changes in applicable tax laws and interpretations of these tax laws and actions by tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate could reduce our after-tax income and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Aspects of our business, including Health Care, are subject to many laws and governmental regulations, including regulations by the Food and Drug Administration and comparable foreign agencies, as well as potential litigation. Adverse regulatory action, including a recall, or product liability or other litigation may adversely affect our financial condition and business operations.

Our sales and results of operations also may be adversely affected by new legal requirements, including healthcare reform legislation and climate change and other environmental legislation and regulations. The costs and other effects of pending litigation and administrative actions against us and new legal requirements cannot be determined with certainty. For example, new legislation or regulations may result in increased costs to us, directly for our compliance or indirectly to the extent suppliers increase prices of goods and services because of increased compliance costs or reduced availability of raw materials.

Although we believe that none of these proceedings or requirements will have a material adverse effect on us, the outcome of these proceedings or effects of new legal requirements may not be as expected. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.”

If we are unable to hire, develop or retain key employees or a skilled and diverse workforce, it could have an adverse effect on our business.

Our strategy includes a focus on hiring, developing and retaining our management team and a skilled and diverse international workforce. A skilled and diverse international workforce is a significant factor in developing product innovation, as well as providing key viewpoints representative of our international consumer base. We compete to hire new employees and then seek to train them to develop their skills. We may not be able to successfully recruit, develop and retain the key personnel that we need. 

5
PART I

(Continued)

Unplanned turnover or failure to develop an effective succession plan for our leadership positions, or to hire and retain a diverse, skilled workforce, could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our results of operations. 

 There is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts to reduce costs will be successful.

We continue to implement plans to improve our competitive position by achieving cost reductions in our operations. In addition, we expect ongoing cost savings from our continuous improvement activities. We anticipate these cost savings will result from reducing material costs and manufacturing waste and realizing productivity gains, distribution efficiencies and overhead reductions in each of our business segments. See our discussion of our cost savings activities in MD&A. If we cannot successfully implement our cost savings plans, however, we may not realize all anticipated benefits. Any negative impact these plans have on our relationships with employees or customers or any failure to generate the anticipated efficiencies and savings could adversely affect our financial results.

Our international operations are subject to foreign market risks, including foreign exchange risk, currency restrictions and political, social and economic instability, which may adversely affect our financial results.

Because we and our equity companies have manufacturing facilities in 39 countries, with products sold in more than 175 countries, our results may be substantially affected by foreign market risks. We are subject to the impact of economic, social and political instability in developing countries.

We are exposed to the movement of various currencies against each other and versus the U.S. dollar. A portion of the exposures, arising from transactions and commitments denominated in non-local currencies, is systematically managed through foreign currency forward and swap contracts. We do not generally hedge our translation exposure with respect to foreign operations.

Weaker foreign currency exchange rates increase the potential impact of forecasted increases in dollar-based input costs for operations outside the U.S. There can be no assurance that we will be protected against substantial foreign currency fluctuations.

In addition, we face increased risks in our international operations, including currency exchange restrictions and other limits on our ability to repatriate earnings from outside the U.S., adverse political and economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, tariffs and other trade barriers, risks of expropriation, difficulties in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights, and developing and maintaining successful business alliances, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Each of these factors could adversely affect our financial results. See MD&A and Item 8, Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for information about the effects of currency restrictions and related exposures in Venezuela.

Damage to the reputation of Kimberly-Clark or to one or more of our brands could adversely affect our business.

Developing and maintaining our reputation, as well as the reputation of our brands, is a critical factor in our relationship with consumers, customers, suppliers and others. Our inability to address adverse publicity or other issues, including concerns about product safety, quality, efficacy or similar matters, real or perceived, could negatively impact sentiments towards us and our products and brands, and our business and financial results could suffer. Our business and results could also be negatively impacted by the effects of a significant product recall, product-related litigation, allegations of product tampering or contamination or the distribution and sale of counterfeit products. 

We may acquire or divest product lines or businesses, which could impact our results.

We may pursue acquisitions of product lines or businesses from third parties. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired product lines or businesses, estimation and assumption of liabilities and contingencies, personnel turnover and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. We may be unable to identify suitable additional acquisition candidates or may be unable to successfully integrate and manage product lines or businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. In addition, we may be unable to achieve anticipated benefits or cost savings from acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate, or at all.

The inability to integrate and manage acquired product lines or businesses in a timely and efficient manner, the inability to achieve anticipated cost savings or other anticipated benefits from these acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate or the unanticipated required increases in trade, promotional or capital spending from these acquisitions could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

6
PART I

(Continued)

Moreover, acquisitions could result in substantial additional indebtedness, exposure to contingent liabilities such as litigation or the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, or transactions costs, all of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

Alternatively, we may periodically divest product lines or businesses, which may adversely impact our results if we are unable to offset the dilutive impacts from the loss of revenue associated with the divested products or businesses. In addition, businesses under consideration for divestiture may be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our financial results. 

Disruption in our supply chain or the failure of third-party providers to satisfactorily perform could adversely impact our operations.

We operate on a global scale and therefore our ability to manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our operations. These activities are subject to inherent risks such as natural disasters, power outages, fires or explosions, labor strikes, terrorism, pandemics, import restrictions, regional economic, business, environmental, or political events, governmental regulatory requirements or nongovernmental voluntary actions in response to global climate change or other concerns regarding the sustainability of our business, which could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. This interruption, if not mitigated in advance or otherwise effectively managed, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to address.

In addition, third parties manufacture some of our products and provide certain administrative services. Disruptions or delays at these third-party manufacturers or service providers due to the reasons above or the failure of these manufacturers or service providers to otherwise satisfactorily perform, could adversely impact our operations, sales, payments to our vendors, employees, and others, and our ability to report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis.

If our information technology systems suffer interruptions or failures, our business operations could be disrupted.

Our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, serve an important role in the efficient operation of our business. This role includes ordering and managing materials from suppliers, managing our inventory, converting materials to finished products, facilitating order entry and fulfillment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting our results, facilitating internal and external communications, administering human resources functions, and providing other processes necessary to manage our business. The failure of these information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and negatively impact our results. In addition, these information technology systems could be damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, computer viruses, or cyber-based attacks. While we have contingency plans in place to prevent or mitigate the impact of these events, if they were to occur and our disaster recovery plans do not effectively address the issues on a timely basis, we could suffer interruptions in our ability to manage our operations, which may adversely affect our business and financial results.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES