Part I  

 Item 1. Business  

Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire,” “Company” or “Registrant”) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both a primary basis and a reinsurance basis, a freight rail transportation business and a group of utility and energy generation and distribution businesses. Berkshire also owns and operates a large number of other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as identified herein. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters are located in Omaha, Nebraska.  

Berkshire’s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire’s corporate headquarters in the day-to-day business activities of the operating businesses. Berkshire’s corporate office senior management participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses. It also is responsible for establishing and monitoring Berkshire’s corporate governance efforts, including, but not limited to, communicating the appropriate “tone at the top” messages to its employees and associates, monitoring governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and participating in the resolution of governance-related issues as needed.  

Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries employ approximately 302,000 persons world-wide, of which 25 are located at the corporate headquarters.  

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses  

Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through numerous domestic and foreign-based insurance entities. Berkshire’s insurance businesses provide insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty risks world-wide and also reinsure life, accident and health risks world-wide.  

In primary (or direct) insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that other primary insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring activities.  

Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a portion of a specified class of risks ceded by the primary insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual risks. Reinsurance contracts are further classified as quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums, losses and expenses of the primary insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the primary insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or “retention.” Both quota-share and excess reinsurance contracts may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.  

Insurance and reinsurance are generally subject to regulatory oversight throughout the world. Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, ratings, underwriting consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions.  

Insurers and reinsurers based in the United States are subject to regulation by their state of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed or write policies on a non-admitted basis. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise protected. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the authority to suspend or revoke a given company’s authority to do business as conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders and other transactions with affiliates. Dividends and capital distributions and other transactions of extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory approval.  

Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states where they are licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and premium rates. Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable from the admitted  

1  

Table of Contents 

 insurance markets of a state. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as “excess and surplus” lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by the insured party’s direct procurement from non-admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates and policy forms.  

The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements. However, an insurer’s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters. In addition to its activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, compliance with financial regulation standards and risk-based capital reporting requirements.  

Berkshire’s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels. This strength differentiates Berkshire’s insurance companies from their competitors. Collectively, the aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire’s U.S. based insurers was approximately $129 billion at December 31, 2013. All of Berkshire’s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AA+ by Standard & Poor’s and A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and operating performance.  

The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established within the Department of the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program (“Program”) for commercial property and casualty insurers by providing federal reinsurance of insured terrorism losses. The Program currently extends to December 31, 2014 through other Acts, most recently the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007. Hereinafter these Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying “acts of terrorism.” Coverage under TRIA occurs when the industry insured loss for a certified event exceeds $100 million. To be eligible for federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this coverage and of the federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA participation. TRIA currently also excludes certain forms of direct insurance (such as commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines). Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.  

In the event of a certified act of terrorism, the federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) for 85% of their insured losses in excess of an insurance group’s deductible. Under the Program currently in effect, the deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines of business in the immediately preceding calendar year. The aggregate deductible in 2014 for Berkshire’s consolidated insurance and reinsurance businesses will be approximately $575 million. There is also an aggregate limit of $100 billion on the amount of the federal government coverage for each TRIA year. It is not currently known whether TRIA will be extended beyond 2014.  

Regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United States is subject to the differing laws and regulations of each country in which an insurer has operations or writes premiums. Some jurisdictions impose complex regulatory requirements on insurance businesses while other jurisdictions impose fewer requirements. In certain foreign countries, reinsurers are required to be licensed by governmental authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification, suspension or revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of insurance liabilities and minimum capital and solvency tests. The violation of regulatory requirements may result in fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various jurisdictions. Berkshire subsidiaries have historically provided insuring capacity to insurance syndicates at Lloyd’s of London. Such capacity entitles the Berkshire subsidiaries to a share of the risks and rewards of the activities of the syndicates in proportion to the amount of capacity provided. This business is subject to regulation by the United Kingdom’s Prudential Regulation Authority which maintains comprehensive rules and regulations covering the legal, financial and operating activities of managing agents and syndicates.  

Berkshire’s insurance underwriting operations are comprised of the following sub-groups: (1) GEICO and its subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its subsidiaries, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Except for certain retroactive reinsurance products that generate significant amounts of up-front premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over very long periods of time creating “float” (see Investments section below), Berkshire expects to achieve a net underwriting profit over time and will reject inadequately priced risks. Underwriting profit is earned premiums less associated incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting and policy acquisition expenses. Underwriting profit does not include investment income earned from investments. Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries employ approximately 36,000 persons in the aggregate. Additional information related to each of Berkshire’s four underwriting groups follows.  

2  

Table of Contents 

GEICO—GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland and its insurance subsidiaries consist of: Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company, GEICO Casualty Company, GEICO Advantage Insurance Company, GEICO Choice Insurance Company and GEICO Secure Insurance Company. These companies primarily offer private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. In addition, GEICO insures motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles and small commercial fleets and acts as an agent for other insurers who offer homeowners, boat and life insurance to individuals. GEICO markets its policies primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via the Internet or by telephone.  

GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other companies that sell directly to the customer as well as with companies that use agency sales forces. The automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. Some insurance companies may exacerbate price competition by selling their products for a period of time at less than adequate rates. GEICO will not knowingly follow that strategy.  

As a result of an aggressive advertising campaign and competitive rates, voluntary policies-in-force have increased about 40% over the past five years. GEICO was the third largest private passenger auto insurer in the United States in terms of premium volume in 2012. According to A.M. Best data for 2012, the five largest automobile insurers have a combined market share of 52%, with GEICO’s market share being approximately 9.7%. Since the publication of that data, management believes that GEICO’s current market share has grown to approximately 10.4% and that it is now the second largest private passenger auto insurer in the United States. Seasonal variations in GEICO’s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary weather conditions or other factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.  

Private passenger auto insurance is stringently regulated by state insurance departments. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to differentiate their products. Competition for private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on price and level of customer service provided. GEICO’s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and value to its customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage and settle claims.  

The name and reputation of GEICO is a material asset and management protects it and other service marks through appropriate registrations.  

General Re—General Re Corporation (“General Re”) is the holding company of General Reinsurance Corporation (“GRC”) and its subsidiaries and affiliates. GRC’s subsidiaries include General Reinsurance AG, a major international reinsurer based in Germany. General Re subsidiaries currently conduct business activities globally in 51 cities and provide insurance and reinsurance coverages throughout the world. General Re provides property/casualty insurance and reinsurance, life/health reinsurance and other reinsurance intermediary and risk management services, underwriting management and investment management services. General Re is one of the largest reinsurers in the world based on premium volume and shareholder capital.  

Property/Casualty Reinsurance  

General Re’s property/casualty reinsurance business in North America is conducted through GRC domiciled in Delaware and licensed in the District of Columbia and all states but Hawaii where it is an accredited reinsurer. Property/casualty operations in North America are headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and are also conducted through 16 branch offices in the U.S. and Canada. Reinsurance activities are marketed directly to clients without involving a broker or intermediary. Coverages are written primarily on an excess basis and under treaty and facultative contracts. In 2013, approximately 35% of net written premiums in North America related to casualty reinsurance coverages and 46% related to property reinsurance coverages.  

General Re’s property/casualty business in North America also includes a few smaller specialty insurers (primarily the General Star and Genesis companies domiciled in Delaware and Connecticut.) These specialty insurers underwrite primarily liability and workers’ compensation coverages on an excess and surplus basis and excess insurance for self-insured programs. In 2013, the specialty insurers represented approximately 19% of General Re’s North American property/casualty net written premiums.  

General Re’s international property/casualty reinsurance business operations are conducted through internationally-based subsidiaries on a direct basis (via General Reinsurance AG as well as several other General Re subsidiaries and branches in 23 countries) and through brokers (primarily via Faraday, which owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd’s of London  

3  

Table of Contents 

 and provides capacity and participates in 100% of the results of Syndicate 435). Coverages are written on both a quota-share and excess basis for multiple lines of property, aviation and casualty reinsurance coverage. In 2013, international-based property/casualty operations principally wrote direct reinsurance in the form of treaties with lesser amounts written on a facultative basis.  

Life/Health Reinsurance  

General Re’s North American and international life, health, long-term care and disability reinsurance coverages are written on an individual and group basis. Most of this business is written on a proportional treaty basis, with the exception of the U.S. group health and disability business which is predominately written on an excess treaty basis. Lesser amounts of life and disability business are written on a facultative basis. The life/health business is marketed on a direct basis. In 2013, approximately 42% of life/health net premiums were written in the United States, 25% in Western Europe and the remaining 33% throughout the rest of the world.  

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group—The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”) operates from offices located in Stamford, Connecticut. Business activities are conducted through a group of subsidiary companies, led by National Indemnity Company (“NICO”) and Columbia Insurance Company (“Columbia”). BHRG provides principally excess and quota-share reinsurance to other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers. BHRG also offers life reinsurance and annuity contracts through Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska (“BHLN”) and financial guaranty insurance through Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation.  

The type and volume of insurance and reinsurance business written by BHRG is dependent on current market conditions, including prevailing premium rates and coverage terms as perceived by management, and can change rapidly. The level of BHRG’s underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets.  

BHRG writes catastrophe excess-of-loss treaty reinsurance contracts. BHRG also writes individual policies for primarily large or otherwise unusual discrete risks on both an excess direct and facultative reinsurance basis, referred to as “individual risk,” which includes policies covering terrorism, natural catastrophe and aviation risks. A catastrophe excess-of-loss policy provides protection to the counterparty from the accumulation of primarily property losses arising from a single loss event or series of related events. Catastrophe and individual risk policies may provide significant amounts of indemnification per contract and a single loss event may produce losses under a number of contracts. As a result, catastrophe and individual risk business can produce extremely volatile periodic underwriting results. The extraordinary financial strength of NICO and Columbia are believed to be the primary reasons why BHRG has become a major provider of such coverages.  

BHRG periodically assumes risks under retroactive reinsurance contracts. Retroactive reinsurance contracts afford protection to ceding companies against the adverse development of claims arising under policies issued in prior years. Coverage under such contracts is provided on an excess basis or immediately with respect to losses payable after the inception of the contract. Coverage provided is normally subject to a large aggregate limit of indemnification. Significant amounts of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims may arise under the contracts. Under certain contracts, the limits of indemnification provided are exceptionally large. In 2007, an agreement became effective between NICO and Equitas, a London based entity established to reinsure and manage the 1992 and prior years’ non-life liabilities of the Names or Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London. Under the agreement NICO provides up to $7 billion of new reinsurance to Equitas. In 2009, NICO agreed to provide up to 5 billion Swiss Francs of aggregate excess retroactive protection to Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. and its affiliates (“Swiss Re”). In 2010, NICO entered into a reinsurance agreement with Continental Casualty Company, a subsidiary of CNA Financial Corporation (“CNA”), and several of CNA’s other insurance subsidiaries (collectively the “CNA Companies”) under which NICO assumed the asbestos and environmental pollution liabilities of the CNA Companies subject to a maximum limit of indemnification of $4 billion. In 2011, NICO entered into a contract with Eaglestone Reinsurance Company, a subsidiary of American International Group, Inc. (“AIG”). Under the contract, NICO agreed to reinsure the bulk of AIG’s U.S. asbestos liabilities up to a maximum limit of indemnification of $3.5 billion.  

In BHRG’s retroactive reinsurance business, the concept of time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing prices and contract terms, since the payment of losses under the insurance contracts are often expected to occur over lengthy periods of time. Losses payable under the contracts are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore, produce underwriting losses. This business is accepted, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds (“float”) generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment results in future periods.  

4  

Table of Contents 

BHRG also underwrites traditional non-catastrophe insurance and reinsurance coverages, referred to as multi-line property/casualty business and beginning on January 1, 2008, it included a five-year 20% quota-share of property and casualty business underwritten by Swiss Re and its major property/casualty affiliates. This contract expired with respect to business incepting after December 31, 2012 and is now in run-off.  

For many years, BHLN has offered annuity insurance and reinsurance products, in which it usually receives an upfront premium and makes a stream of annuity payments in the future. In 2010, BHLN entered into a life reinsurance contract with Swiss Re Life & Health America Inc. (“SRLHA”), a subsidiary of Swiss Re. Under the agreement, BHLN assumed the liabilities and subsequent renewal premiums associated with a closed block of yearly renewable term reinsurance business. The agreement, as amended in 2013, is expected to remain in-force for several decades. At the end of 2010, BHLN also acquired the life reinsurance business of Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada.  

In the first quarter of 2013, BHRG reinsured certain guaranteed minimum death benefit coverages on a portfolio of variable annuity reinsurance contracts that have been in run-off for a number of years under a 100% coinsurance reinsurance treaty with Connecticut General Life Insurance Company (“CGLIC”). The CGLIC contract will remain in force until the natural expiry of the underlying business, subject to an aggregate limit of indemnification of $3.82 billion.  

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group—The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group (“BH Primary”) is a collection of independently managed primary insurance operations that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to policyholders located principally in the United States. These various operations are discussed below.  

NICO and certain affiliates (referred to as the National Indemnity Primary Group) underwrite motor vehicle and general liability insurance to commercial enterprises on both an admitted and excess and surplus basis. This business is written nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.  

A collection of insurance companies referred to internally as the “Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies” (“BHHC”) primarily offer standalone workers’ compensation, commercial auto and commercial property coverages. Over the past five years, BHHC has developed a national reach, with the ability to provide first dollar and small to mid-range deductible workers’ compensation coverage to employers in all states, except those where coverage is available only through state operated workers compensation funds. As a result, the volume of workers’ compensation business written over that period has grown significantly. BHHC serves a diverse client base. BHHC’s business is generated primarily through independent agents and BHHC employees adjust substantially all of related claims.  

Medical Protective Corporation (“MedPro”) offers products and solutions through its subsidiaries (The Medical Protective Company and Princeton Insurance Company, which was acquired at the end of 2011) and is a national leader in providing healthcare malpractice insurance coverage and risk solutions for physicians, dentists, hospitals and health systems, as well as other healthcare facilities and healthcare providers. MedPro has provided insurance coverage to protect healthcare providers against losses since 1899. MedPro’s insurance policies are distributed primarily through a nationwide network of appointed agents and brokers. MedPro offers strong claims handling and administration, risk management solutions, and a wide range of insurance coverage features though a team of experienced professional employees.  

U.S. Investment Corporation (“USIC”), through its four subsidiaries led by United States Liability Insurance Company, is a specialty insurer that underwrites commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted and excess and surplus basis. Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through wholesale and retail insurance agents. USIC companies underwrite and market 110 distinct specialty property and casualty insurance products.  

Applied Underwriters, Inc. (“Applied”) is a leading provider of payroll and insurance services to small and mid-sized employers. Applied, through its subsidiaries principally markets SolutionOne®, a product that bundles workers’ compensation and other employment related insurance coverages and business services into a seamless package that is designed to reduce the risks and remove the burden of administrative and regulatory requirements faced by small to mid-sized employers. Applied also markets EquityComp® which is a workers’ compensation–only product targeted to medium sized employers with a profit sharing component.  

In the fourth quarter of 2012, NICO acquired Clal U.S. Holdings, which owns GUARD Insurance Group (“GUARD”). GUARD is based in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania and through four insurance subsidiaries provides commercial property and casualty insurance coverage to small- and mid-sized businesses.  

5  

Table of Contents 

In 2007, Berkshire acquired Boat America Corporation, which owns Seaworthy Insurance Company and controls the Boat Owners Association of the United States (collectively “BoatU.S.”). BoatU.S. provides insurance, safety and other services to recreational watercraft owners and enthusiasts. Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha, located in Omaha, Nebraska, historically provided credit and income protection insurance and related services to credit and debit card holders nationwide and recently began writing Medicare Supplement insurance.  

Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (“BHSI”) was formed in April 2013 with the goal of providing customers with tailored solutions for large and complex risks ranging from natural catastrophes, to securities litigation, to construction liabilities. BHSI currently provides primary and excess commercial property, casualty, healthcare professional liability, executive and professional lines insurance and related programs. To date, BHSI’s business has principally been written on an excess & surplus lines basis in the U.S. market. Eventually, BHSI also plans to write policies on an admitted basis. BHSI has established a home office in Boston and regional underwriting offices in Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles and New York. BHSI expects to write business through wholesale and retail insurance brokers, as well as managing general agents. The type and volume of business written by BHSI will depend on prevailing premium rates and coverage terms that are deemed acceptable by its management.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Property and casualty loss liabilities  

Berkshire’s property and casualty insurance companies establish liabilities for estimated unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Such estimates include provisions for reported claims or case estimates, provisions for incurred-but-not-reported (“IBNR”) claims and legal and administrative costs to settle claims. The estimates of unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under reinsurance are established and continually reviewed by using a variety of actuarial, statistical and analytical techniques. Reference is made to “Critical Accounting Policies,” included in Item 7 of this Report.  

The table below presents the development of Berkshire’s net unpaid losses for property/casualty contracts from 2003 through 2012 and net unpaid loss data as of December 31, 2013. Data in the table related to acquisitions is included from the acquisition date forward. Berkshire’s management believes that the liabilities established as of December 31, 2013 are reasonable and adequate. However, due to the inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate. Dollar amounts are in millions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * The amounts of re-estimated liabilities in the table above related to these operations are based on the applicable foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of the re-estimation period. The cumulative foreign exchange effect represents the cumulative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates from the original balance sheet date to the end of the re-estimation period.  

7  

Table of Contents 

The first section of the table reconciles the estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years from the gross liability reflected in Berkshire’s Consolidated Balance Sheet to the net amount, after reductions for amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance, deferred charges on retroactive reinsurance contracts and loss reserve discounts.  

Certain workers’ compensation loss liabilities are discounted for both statutory and GAAP reporting purposes at an interest rate of 4.5% per annum for claims occurring before 2003 and at 1% per annum for claims occurring after 2002. In addition, deferred charges are recorded as assets at the inception of retroactive reinsurance contracts for the excess of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses over the premiums received. The deferred charges are subsequently amortized over the expected claim payment period. Deferred charge amortization and loss reserve discount accretion are recorded as components of insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred.  

The second section of the table shows the re-estimated net unpaid losses, including the impact of changes in related reserve discounts and deferred charges, based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The re-estimated amount also reflects the effect of loss payments and re-estimation of remaining unpaid liabilities. The line labeled “cumulative deficiency (redundancy)” represents the aggregate increase (decrease) in the initial estimates from the original balance sheet date through December 31, 2013. These amounts have been reported in earnings over time as components of losses and loss adjustment expenses and include accumulated reserve discount accretion and deferred charge amortization. Due to the significance of the deferred charges and reserve discounts, the cumulative changes in such balances which are included in the cumulative deficiency/redundancy amounts are also provided.  

The redundancies or deficiencies shown in each column should be viewed independently of the other columns because redundancies or deficiencies arising in earlier years may be included as components of redundancies or deficiencies in the more recent years. Liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts are treated as occurrences in the year the contract was entered into, as opposed to when the underlying losses actually occurred, which is prior to the contract date.  

The third part of the table shows the cumulative amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses paid with respect to recorded net liabilities as of the end of each succeeding year. While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses established in previous years, and the subsequent payments of claims, readers are cautioned against extrapolating redundancies or deficiencies of the past on current unpaid loss balances.  

Investments—Invested assets of insurance businesses derive from shareholder capital as well as funds provided from policyholders through insurance and reinsurance business (“float”). Float is an approximation of the amount of net policyholder funds available for investment. That term denotes the sum of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, life, annuity and health benefit liabilities, unearned premiums and other policyholder liabilities less the aggregate amount of premium balances receivable, losses recoverable from reinsurance ceded, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges on reinsurance contracts and related deferred income taxes. On a consolidated basis, the amount of float has grown from approximately $58 billion at the end of 2008 to approximately $77 billion at the end of 2013, primarily through internal growth. BHRG and General Re accounted for approximately 74% of the consolidated float as of December 31, 2013. Equally important as the amount of the float is its cost, represented by Berkshire’s periodic net underwriting gain or loss. The increases in the amount of float plus the substantial amounts of shareholder capital devoted to insurance and reinsurance activities have generated meaningful increases in the levels of investments and investment income over the past five years.  

Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include ownership of equity securities of other publicly traded companies which are concentrated in relatively few companies and large amounts of fixed maturity securities and cash and cash equivalents. Fixed maturity investments consist of obligations of the U.S. Government, U.S. states and municipalities, mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by the three major U.S. Government and Government-sponsored agencies, as well as obligations of foreign governments and corporate obligations. Investment portfolios are primarily managed by Berkshire’s corporate office. Generally, there are no targeted investment allocation rates established by management with respect to investment activities. Rather, management may increase or decrease investments in response to perceived changes in opportunities for income or price appreciation relative to risks associated with the issuers of the securities.  

Railroad Business  

On February 12, 2010, Berkshire completed its acquisition of Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation through the merger of a wholly-owned merger subsidiary and Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation. The merger subsidiary was the surviving entity and was renamed Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC (“BNSF”). BNSF is based in Fort Worth, Texas, and through BNSF Railway Company operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America. BNSF had about 43,000  

8  

Table of Contents 

 employees at the end of 2013. BNSF Railway operates one of the largest railroad networks in North America with approximately 32,500 route miles of track (excluding multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings) in 28 states and two Canadian provinces. BNSF Railway owns approximately 23,000 route miles, including easements, and operates on approximately 9,500 route miles of trackage rights that permit BNSF Railway to operate its trains with its crews over other railroads’ tracks. As of December 31, 2013, the total BNSF Railway system, including single and multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings, consisted of approximately 51,000 operated miles of track, all of which are owned by or held under easement by BNSF Railway except for approximately 10,500 miles operated under trackage rights.  

In serving the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, Western, Southwestern and Southeastern regions and ports of the country, BNSF transports a range of products and commodities derived from manufacturing, agricultural and natural resource industries. Over half of the freight revenues of BNSF are covered by contractual agreements of varying durations, while the balance is subject to common carrier published prices or quotations offered by BNSF. BNSF’s financial performance is influenced by, among other things, general and industry economic conditions at the international, national and regional levels. BNSF’s primary routes, including trackage rights, allow it to access major cities and ports in the western and southern United States as well as parts of Canada and Mexico. In addition to major cities and ports, BNSF efficiently serves many smaller markets by working closely with approximately 200 shortline partners. BNSF has also entered into marketing agreements with other rail carriers, expanding the marketing reach for each railroad and their customers. For the year ending December 31, 2013, approximately 33% of freight revenues were derived from consumer products, 27% from industrial products, 23% from coal and 17% from agricultural products.  

Regulatory Matters  

BNSF is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations generally applicable to all of its businesses. Rail operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”) of the United States Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), as well as other federal, state and Canadian regulatory agencies. The STB has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line extensions and construction and consolidation or merger with, or acquisition of control of rail common carriers. The outcome of STB proceedings can affect the profitability of BNSF’s business.  

The DOT and OSHA have jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a number of safety and health aspects of rail operations, including the transportation of hazardous materials. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law.  

Environmental Matters  

BNSF’s rail operations, as well as those of its competitors, are also subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulation covering discharges to water, air emissions, toxic substances and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. This regulation has the effect of increasing the cost and liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.  

Many of BNSF’s land holdings are and have been used for industrial or transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. As a result, BNSF is now subject to, and will from time to time continue to be subject to, environmental cleanup and enforcement actions. In particular, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as the Superfund law, generally imposes joint and several liability for the cleanup and enforcement costs on current and former owners and operators of a site, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. Accordingly, BNSF may be responsible under CERCLA and other federal and state statutes for all or part of the costs to clean up sites at which certain substances may have been released by BNSF, its current lessees, former owners or lessees of properties, or other third parties. BNSF may also be subject to claims by third parties for investigation, cleanup, restoration or other environmental costs under environmental statutes or common law with respect to properties they own that have been impacted by BNSF operations.  

Competition  

The business environment in which BNSF operates is highly competitive. Depending on the specific market, deregulated motor carriers and other railroads, as well as river barges, ships and pipelines in certain markets, may exert pressure on price  

9  

Table of Contents 

 and service levels. The presence of advanced, high service truck lines with expedited delivery, subsidized infrastructure and minimal empty mileage continues to affect the market for non-bulk, time-sensitive freight. The potential expansion of longer combination vehicles could further encroach upon markets traditionally served by railroads. In order to remain competitive, BNSF and other railroads continue to develop and implement operating efficiencies to improve productivity.  

As railroads streamline, rationalize and otherwise enhance their franchises, competition among rail carriers intensifies. BNSF’s primary rail competitor in the Western region of the United States is the Union Pacific Railroad Company. Other Class I railroads and numerous regional railroads and motor carriers also operate in parts of the same territories served by BNSF. Based on weekly reporting by the Association of American Railroads, BNSF’s share of the western United States rail traffic in 2013 was approximately 49.5 percent.  

Utilities and Energy Businesses  

Berkshire currently owns an 89.8% voting common stock interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company (“MidAmerican”), an international energy company with subsidiaries that generate, transmit, store, distribute and supply energy. MidAmerican’s businesses are managed as separate operating units. MidAmerican’s domestic regulated energy interests are currently comprised of four regulated utility companies serving approximately 4.5 million retail customers, two interstate natural gas pipeline companies with approximately 16,400 miles of pipeline and a design capacity of approximately 7.7 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day and a 50% interest in electricity transmission businesses. Its Great Britain electricity distribution subsidiaries serve about 3.9 million electricity end-users. In addition, MidAmerican’s interests include a diversified portfolio of domestic independent power projects, a hydroelectric facility in the Philippines, the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States, and the second-largest residential real estate brokerage franchise network in the United States. MidAmerican employs approximately 19,700 persons in connection with its various operations.  

General Matters  

PacifiCorp is a regulated electric utility company headquartered in Oregon, serving electric customers in portions of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. The combined service territory’s diverse regional economy ranges from rural, agricultural and mining areas to urban, manufacturing and government service centers. No single segment of the economy dominates the service territory, which helps mitigate PacifiCorp’s exposure to economic fluctuations. In addition to retail sales, PacifiCorp sells electricity on a wholesale basis.  

MidAmerican Energy Company (“MEC”) is a regulated electric and natural gas utility company headquartered in Iowa, serving electric and natural gas customers primarily in Iowa and also in portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska. MEC has a diverse customer base consisting of urban and rural residential customers and a variety of commercial and industrial customers. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, MEC sells electricity principally to markets operated by regional transmission organizations and regulated natural gas on a wholesale basis and sells electricity and natural gas services in deregulated markets.  

NV Energy, Inc. (“NV Energy”), acquired by MidAmerican on December 19, 2013, is an energy holding company headquartered in Nevada, primarily consisting of two regulated utility subsidiaries, Nevada Power Company (“Nevada Power”) and Sierra Pacific Power Company (“Sierra Pacific”) (collectively, the “Nevada Utilities”). Nevada Power serves electric customers in southern Nevada and Sierra Pacific serves electric and natural gas customers in northern Nevada. The Nevada Utilities’ combined service territory’s economy includes gaming, mining, recreation, warehousing, manufacturing and governmental. In addition to retail sales, the Nevada Utilities sell electricity on a wholesale basis.  

As vertically integrated utilities, MidAmerican’s domestic utilities own approximately 24,000 net MW of generation capacity. There are seasonal variations in these businesses that are principally related to the use of electricity for air conditioning and natural gas for heating. Typically, regulated electric revenues are higher in the summer months, while regulated natural gas revenues are higher in the winter months.  

The natural gas pipelines consist of Northern Natural Gas Company (“Northern Natural”) and Kern River Gas Transmission Company (“Kern River”). Northern Natural is based in Nebraska and owns the largest interstate natural gas pipeline system in the United States, as measured by pipeline miles, reaching from southern Texas to Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. Northern Natural’s pipeline system consists of approximately 14,700 miles of natural gas pipelines. Northern Natural’s extensive pipeline system, which is interconnected with many interstate and intrastate pipelines in the national grid system, has access to supplies from multiple major supply basins and provides transportation services to utilities and numerous  

10  

Table of Contents 

 other customers. Northern Natural also operates three underground natural gas storage facilities and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units. Northern Natural’s pipeline system experiences significant seasonal swings in demand and revenue, with the highest demand typically occurring during the months of November through March.  

Kern River is based in Utah and owns an interstate natural gas pipeline system that consists of approximately 1,700 miles and extends from supply areas in the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California. Kern River transports natural gas for electric utilities and natural gas distribution utilities, major oil and natural gas companies or affiliates of such companies, electricity generating companies, energy marketing and trading companies, and financial institutions.  

The Great Britain utilities consist of Northern Powergrid (Northeast) Limited (“Northern Powergrid (Northeast)”) and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc (“Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire)”), which own a substantial electricity distribution network that delivers electricity to end-users in northeast England in an area covering approximately 10,000 square miles. The distribution companies primarily charge supply companies regulated tariffs for the use of electrical infrastructure.  

MidAmerican Renewables is based in Iowa and owns interests in independent power projects that are in service or under construction in California, Illinois, Arizona, the Philippines, Texas, New York and Hawaii. These independent power projects, consisting of solar, natural gas, wind, geothermal and hydroelectric generating facilities, produce energy that is sold principally under long-term power purchase agreements.  

Regulatory Matters  

PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) is an independent agency with broad authority to implement provisions of the Federal Power Act, the Natural Gas Act (“NGA”), the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other federal statutes. The FERC regulates rates for wholesale sales of electricity; transmission of electricity, including pricing and regional planning for the expansion of transmission systems; electric system reliability; utility holding companies; accounting and records retention; securities issuances; construction and operation of hydroelectric facilities; and other matters. The FERC also has the enforcement authority to assess civil penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation of rules, regulations and orders issued under the Federal Power Act. MEC is also subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect to its ownership of the Quad Cities Nuclear Station.  

Except in Oregon, Washington, Nevada and Illinois, where certain customers have the right to choose alternative electricity service suppliers, MidAmerican’s utilities have an exclusive right to serve retail customers within their service territories and, in turn, have an obligation to provide service to those customers. Historically, state regulatory commissions have established retail electric and natural gas rates on a cost-of-service basis, which are designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover what each state regulatory commission deems to be the utility’s reasonable costs of providing services, including a fair opportunity to earn a reasonable return on its investments based on its cost of debt and equity. The retail electric rates of PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are generally based on the cost of providing traditional bundled services, including generation, transmission and distribution services.  

The natural gas pipelines are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The natural gas pipeline and storage operations of Northern Natural and Kern River are regulated by the FERC pursuant to the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. Under this authority, the FERC regulates, among other items, (a) rates, charges, terms and conditions of service and (b) the construction and operation of interstate pipelines, storage and related facilities, including the extension, expansion or abandonment of such facilities. Interstate natural gas pipeline companies are also subject to regulations administrated by the Office of Pipeline Safety within the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, an agency within the DOT. Federal pipeline safety regulations are issued pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, which establishes safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas pipeline facilities.  

Northern Powergrid (Northeast) and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) each charge fees for the use of their distribution systems that are controlled by a formula prescribed by the British electricity regulatory body, the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority. The current five-year price control period is scheduled to end March 31, 2015.  

Environmental Matters  

MidAmerican and its energy businesses are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding air and water quality, renewable portfolio standards, emissions performance standards, climate change, coal combustion byproduct disposal, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters that have the potential to impact  

11  

Table of Contents 

 MidAmerican’s current and future operations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations, such as the Federal Clean Air Act, provide regulators with the authority to levy substantial penalties for noncompliance including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.  

The Federal Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, provides a framework for protecting and improving the nation’s air quality and controlling sources of air emissions. These laws and regulations continue to be promulgated and implemented and will impact the operation of MidAmerican’s generating facilities and require them to reduce emissions at those facilities to comply with the requirements.  

Renewable portfolio standards have been established by certain state governments and generally require electricity providers to obtain a minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy resources by a certain date. Utah, Oregon, Washington, California, Iowa and Nevada have adopted renewable portfolio standards. In addition, the potential adoption of state or federal clean energy standards, which include low-carbon, non-carbon and renewable electricity generating resources, may also impact electricity generators and natural gas providers.  

Comprehensive climate change legislation has not been adopted by Congress; however, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under various provisions of the Federal Clean Air Act has continued since the Environmental Protection Agency’s December 2009 findings that greenhouse gas emissions threaten public health and welfare. Since that determination, significant sources of greenhouse gas emissions have been required to report their greenhouse gas emissions and to undergo a best available control technology determination in conjunction with permitting greenhouse gas emissions. As part of President Obama’s Climate Action Plan issued in June 2013, the Environmental Protection Agency was required to re-propose by September 2013 greenhouse gas new source performance standards that had originally been proposed in 2012 for new fossil-fueled power plants. The re-proposed standards for new sources were released in September 2013 and generally propose a standard of 1,000 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour for natural gas-fueled combustion turbines and 1,100 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour for coal-fueled units. In addition, the Climate Action Plan required the Environmental Protection Agency to issue proposed standards or guidelines to address greenhouse gas emissions from existing fossil-fueled electric generating units by June 2014, to finalize those standards or guidelines by June 2015, and to require states to submit implementation plans by June 2016.  

While the debate continues at the federal and international level over the direction of climate change policy, several states have continued to implement state-specific laws or regional initiatives to report or mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, governmental, nongovernmental and environmental organizations have become more active in pursuing climate change related litigation under existing laws.  

The impact of future federal, regional, state and international accords, legislation, regulation or judicial proceedings related to climate change cannot be quantified in any meaningful range at this time. New requirements limiting greenhouse gas emissions could have a material adverse impact on MidAmerican.  

MidAmerican continues to take actions to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. For example, as of December 31, 2013, MidAmerican owned 4,747 megawatts of wind-powered generating capacity in operation and under construction, which when completed is estimated to cost approximately $9 billion, and owned 1,271 megawatts of solar generating capacity in operation and under construction, which when completed is estimated to cost approximately $6 billion.  

Non-Energy Businesses  

MidAmerican also owns HomeServices of America, Inc. (“HomeServices”), the second largest full-service residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States. In addition to providing traditional residential real estate brokerage services, HomeServices offers other integrated real estate services, including mortgage originations and mortgage banking primarily through joint ventures and subsidiaries, title and closing services, property and casualty insurance, home warranties, relocation services and other home-related services. It operates under 30 residential real estate brand names with over 22,000 sales agents and in over 450 brokerage offices in 25 states.  

HomeServices’ principal sources of revenue are dependent on residential real estate sales, which are generally higher in the second and third quarters of each year. This business is highly competitive and subject to the general real estate market conditions.  

12  

Table of Contents 

In October 2012, HomeServices acquired a 66.7% interest in the second largest residential real estate brokerage franchise network in the United States, which offers and sells independently owned and operated residential real estate brokerage franchises. HomeServices’ franchise network currently includes over 500 franchisees in over 1,600 brokerage offices in 49 states with over 44,000 sales associates under three brand names. In exchange for certain fees, HomeServices provides the right to use the Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices, Prudential and Real Living brand names and other related service marks. In 2013, HomeServices began rebranding certain of its Prudential franchisees as Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices. As of December 31, 2013, 60 franchisees were rebranded. This activity will continue in 2014 with plans to rebrand the majority of the remaining franchisees. HomeServices also provides orientation programs, training and consultation services, advertising programs, and other services.  

Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Businesses  

Berkshire’s numerous and diverse manufacturing, service and retailing businesses are described below.  

Marmon—In 2008, Berkshire acquired approximately 64% of the outstanding common stock of Marmon Holdings, Inc. (“Marmon”), a private company then owned by trusts for the benefit of members of the Pritzker Family of Chicago. On various dates in 2010, 2012 and 2013, Berkshire acquired additional shares of outstanding stock held by noncontrolling shareholders and as of December 31, 2013 owned substantially all of Marmon. Marmon is currently comprised of three autonomous companies consisting of eleven diverse business sectors and approximately 160 independent manufacturing and service businesses.  

Marmon’s three companies and their respective sectors are as follows:  

Marmon Engineered Industrial & Metal Components, Inc. (“Engineered Components”)  

Distribution Services, supplying specialty metal pipe and tubing, bar and sheet products to markets including construction, industrial, aerospace and many others;  

Electrical & Plumbing Products Distribution, supplying electrical building wire primarily for residential and commercial construction, and copper tube for the plumbing, HVAC, refrigeration and industrial markets, through the wholesale channel; and  

Industrial Products, consisting of metal fasteners and fastener coatings for the construction, industrial and other markets, gloves for industrial markets, portable lighting equipment for mining and safety markets, overhead electrification equipment for mass transit systems, custom-machined aluminum and brass forgings for the construction, energy, recreation and other industries, brass fittings and valves for commercial and industrial applications, and drawn aluminum tubing and extruded aluminum shapes for the construction, automotive, appliance, medical and other markets.  

Marmon Natural Resource & Transportation Services, Inc. (“Natural Resources”)  

Crane Services, providing the leasing and operation of mobile cranes primarily to the energy, mining and petrochemical markets;  

Engineered Wire & Cable, supplying electrical and electronic wire and cable for energy related markets and other industries; and  

Transportation Services & Engineered Products, including manufacturing, leasing and maintenance of railroad tank cars, leasing of intermodal tank containers, in-plant rail services, manufacturing of bi-modal railcar movers, wheel, axle and gear sets for light rail transit and gear products for locomotives, manufacturing of steel tank heads, and services, equipment and technology for processing and distributing sulfur.  

Marmon Retail & End User Technologies, Inc. (“Retail Technologies”)  

Food Service Equipment, supplying commercial food preparation equipment for restaurants and shopping carts for retail stores;  

Highway Technologies, primarily serving the heavy-duty highway transportation industry with trailers, fifth wheel coupling devices and undercarriage products such as brake parts and suspension systems, and also serving the light vehicle aftermarket with clutches and related products;  

Retail Home Improvement Products, supplying electrical and plumbing products through the home center channel;  

Retail Store Fixtures, providing shelving systems, other merchandising displays and related services for retail stores, as well as work and garden gloves sold at retail; and  

13  

Table of Contents 

Water Treatment, including residential water softening, purification and refrigeration filtration systems, treatment systems for industrial markets including power generation, oil and gas, chemical, and pulp and paper, gear drives for irrigation systems and cooling towers, and air-cooled heat exchangers.  

Marmon businesses operate approximately 300 manufacturing, distribution and service facilities, and employ approximately 17,000 people worldwide.  

McLane Company— McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) provides wholesale distribution services in all 50 states to customers that include convenience stores, discount retailers, wholesale clubs, drug stores, military bases, quick service restaurants and casual dining restaurants. McLane provides wholesale distribution services to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Wal-Mart”), which accounts for approximately 25% of McLane’s revenues. A curtailment of purchasing by Wal-Mart could have a material adverse impact on McLane’s periodic revenues and earnings. McLane’s business model is based on a high volume of sales, rapid inventory turnover and tight expense control. Operations are currently divided into four business units: grocery distribution, foodservice distribution, beverage distribution, and software development. In 2013, the grocery and foodservice units comprised approximately 98.5% of the total revenues of the company. McLane and its subsidiaries employ approximately 21,000 employees.  

McLane’s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, maintains a dominant market share within the convenience store industry and serves most of the national convenience store chains and major oil company retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to more than 50,000 retail locations nationwide, including Wal-Mart. McLane’s grocery distribution unit operates 23 facilities in 19 states.  

McLane’s foodservice distribution unit, based in Carrollton, Texas, focuses on serving the quick service restaurant industry with high quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 18 facilities in 16 states. The foodservice distribution unit services more than 20,000 chain restaurants nationwide. On August 24, 2012, McLane acquired Meadowbrook Meat Company (MBM). MBM, based in Rocky Mount, North Carolina is a large customized foodservice distributor for national restaurant chains. MBM operates from 37 distribution facilities in 16 states. MBM services approximately 15,000 chain restaurants nationwide.  

On April 23, 2010, McLane acquired Kahn Ventures, parent company of Empire Distributors and Empire Distributors of North Carolina. Kahn Ventures and its subsidiaries are wholesale distributors of distilled spirits, wine and beer. Operations are conducted through nine distribution centers in two states. On December 31, 2010, Kahn Ventures acquired Horizon Wine and Spirits, Inc. and on April 30, 2012 acquired Delta Wholesale Liquors. Operations of Horizon and Delta are conducted through three distribution centers located in Tennessee. The beverage unit services more than 19,000 retail locations in the Southeastern United States.  

Other Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Businesses  

Apparel Manufacturing—Berkshire’s apparel manufacturing businesses include manufacturers of a variety of clothing and footwear. Businesses engaged in the manufacture and distribution of clothing products include Fruit of the Loom, Inc. (“Fruit”), Russell Brands, LLC (“Russell”), Vanity Fair Brands, LP (“VFB”), Garan and Fechheimer Brothers. Berkshire’s footwear businesses include H.H. Brown Shoe Group, Justin Brands and Brooks Sports. These businesses employ approximately 39,000 persons in the aggregate.  

Fruit, Russell and VFB (together “FOL”) are headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky. FOL is primarily a vertically integrated manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel, underwear, casualwear and athletic apparel and hardgoods. Products, under the Fruit of the Loom® and JERZEES® labels are primarily sold in the mass merchandise and wholesale markets. In the VFB product line, Vassarette®, Bestform® and Curvation® are sold in the mass merchandise market, while Vanity Fair® and Lily of France® products are sold in the mid-tier chains and department stores. FOL also markets and sells athletic uniforms, apparel, sports equipment and balls to team dealers; collegiate licensed tee shirts and fleecewear to college bookstores and mid-tier merchants; and athletic apparel, sports equipment and balls to sporting goods retailers under the Russell Athletic® and Spalding® brands. Additionally, Spalding® markets and sells balls in the mass merchandise market and dollar store channels. In 2013, approximately 33% of FOL’s sales were to Wal-Mart.  

FOL generally performs its own spinning, knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging for apparel. For the North American market which comprised about 82% of FOL’s net sales in 2013, the majority of its capital-intensive spinning operations are located in highly automated facilities in the United States with cloth manufacturing performed both in the U.S. and Honduras. Labor-intensive cutting, sewing and packaging operations are located in lower labor cost facilities in Central  

14  

Table of Contents 

 America and the Caribbean. For the European market, products are either sourced from third-party contractors in Europe or Asia or sewn in Morocco from textiles internally produced in Morocco. FOL’s bras, athletic equipment, sporting goods and other athletic apparel lines are generally sourced from third-party contractors located primarily in Asia.  

U.S grown cotton and polyester fibers are the main raw materials used in the manufacturing of FOL’s apparel products and are purchased from a limited number of third-party suppliers. Management currently believes there are readily available alternative sources of raw materials. However, if relationships with suppliers cannot be maintained or delays occur in obtaining alternative sources of supply, production could be adversely affected, which could have a corresponding adverse effect on results of operations. Additionally, raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. FOL has secured contracts to purchase cotton to meet the majority of its production plans for 2014. In 2012 and 2013, cotton market prices were in the range of $0.70 to $0.90 per pound which approximates the ten year average price. FOL’s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally based upon price, product style and quality and customer service.  

Garan designs, manufactures, imports and sells apparel primarily for children, including boys, girls, toddlers and infants. Products are sold under its own trademark Garanimals® and customer private label brands. Garan also licenses its registered trademark Garanimals® to third parties for apparel and non-apparel products. Garan conducts its business through operating subsidiaries located in the United States, Central America and Asia. Substantially all of Garan’s products are sold through its distribution centers in the United States. Wal-Mart accounted for over 90% of Garan’s sales in 2013. Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes and sells uniforms, principally for the public service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and military markets. Fechheimer Brothers is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.  

Justin Brands and H.H. Brown Shoe Group manufacture and distribute work, rugged outdoor and casual shoes and western-style footwear under a number of brand names, including Justin, Tony Lama®, Nocona®, Chippewa®, BØRN®, BŸØŸC®, Carolina®, Söfft, Double-H Boots®, Eürosoft®, and Softspots®. Brooks Sports markets and sells performance running footwear and apparel to specialty and national retailers under Brooks® and Moving Comfort® brands. In 2013 and 2012, Brooks® achieved a #1 market share position in performance running footwear with specialty retailers. A significant volume of the shoes sold by Berkshire’s shoe businesses are manufactured or purchased from sources outside the United States. Products are sold worldwide through a variety of channels including department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through company-owned retail stores.  

Building Products Manufacturing—Acme Brick Company (“Acme”) headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures and distributes clay bricks (Acme Brick® and Jenkins Brick), concrete block (Featherlite) and cut limestone (Texas Quarries). In addition, Acme and its subsidiaries distribute a number of other building products of other manufacturers, including floor and wall tile, wood flooring and other masonry products. Products are sold primarily in the South Central and South Eastern United States through company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.  

Acme and its affiliates operate 26 clay brick manufacturing facilities located in eight states, six concrete block facilities in Texas and two stone fabrication facilities located in Texas and Alabama. In addition, Acme and its subsidiaries operate a glass block fabrication facility, a concrete bagging facility and a stone burnishing facility all located in Texas. The demand for Acme’s products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months and is subject to the level of construction activity which is cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials used in many of its manufactured products. Acme’s raw materials supply is believed to be adequate into the foreseeable future.  

Benjamin Moore & Co. (“Benjamin Moore”), headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading formulator, manufacturer and retailer of a broad range of architectural coatings, available principally in the United States and Canada. Products include water-based and solvent-based general purpose coatings (paints, stains and clear finishes) for use by the general public, contractors and industrial and commercial users. Products are marketed under various registered brand names, including, but not limited to, Aura®, Nattura®, Regal®, Super Spec®, MoorGard®, ben®, Coronado®, Insl-x® and Lenmar®.   

Benjamin Moore and its manufacturing subsidiaries rely primarily on an independent dealer network for distribution of its products. Benjamin Moore’s distribution network includes approximately 72 company-owned stores as well as over 4,200 third party retailers currently representing over 6,300 storefronts in the United States and Canada. Benjamin Moore’s company-owned stores represent several multiple-outlet chains in various parts of the United States and Canada serving primarily contractors and general consumers. The independent dealer channel offers a broad array of products including Benjamin Moore®, Coronado® and Insl-x® brands and other competitor coatings, wall coverings, window treatments and sundries. In  

15  

Table of Contents 

 addition, Benjamin Moore operates an on-line “pick up in store” program, which allows consumers to place orders via an e-commerce site or for national accounts and government agencies via its customer information center. These orders may be picked up at the customer’s nearest dealer.  

Johns Manville (“JM”) is a leading manufacturer and marketer of premium-quality products for building insulation, mechanical insulation, commercial roofing and roof insulation, as well as fibers and nonwovens for commercial, industrial and residential applications. JM serves markets that include aerospace, automotive and transportation, air handling, appliance, HVAC, pipe insulation, filtration, waterproofing, building, flooring, interiors and wind energy. Fiber glass is the basic material in a majority of JM’s products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. Raw materials are readily available in sufficient quantities from various sources for JM to maintain and expand its current production levels. JM regards its patents and licenses as valuable, however it does not consider any of its businesses to be materially dependent on any single patent or license. JM is headquartered in Denver, Colorado, and operates 45 manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and China and conducts research and development at its technical center in Littleton, Colorado and at other facilities in the U.S. and Europe.  

JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including contractors, distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM holds leadership positions in all of the key markets that it serves and typically competes with a few large global and national competitors and several smaller regional competitors. JM’s products compete primarily on the basis of value, product differentiation and customization and breadth of product line. Sales of JM’s products are moderately seasonal due to increases in construction activity that typically occur in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. JM is seeing a trend in customer purchasing decisions being determined based on the sustainable and energy efficient attributes of its products, services and operations.  

MiTek is headquartered in Chesterfield, Missouri and is a leading provider of engineered connector products, engineering software and services and computer-driven manufacturing machinery to the truss fabrication segment of the building components industry. Primary customers are truss fabricators who manufacture pre-fabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the residential building market as well as the light commercial and institutional construction industry. MiTek also participates in the light gauge steel framing market under the Ultra-Span® name, manufactures and markets assembly line machinery used by the lead acid battery industry, manufactures and markets a line of masonry connector products and manufactures and markets air handling systems used in commercial building. In 2013, MiTek acquired Benson Industries, Inc., a market leading company providing design, engineering, supply and installations of quality curtainwall and external cladding worldwide and acquired Cubic Designs, Inc., a premier provider of pre-engineered, prefabricated mezzanine systems and related structures. MiTek operates on six continents with sales into approximately 100 countries. MiTek has 43 manufacturing facilities located in 13 countries and 52 sales/engineering offices located in 20 countries.  

The Shaw Industries Group, Inc. (“Shaw”), headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world’s largest carpet manufacturer based on both revenue and volume of production. Shaw designs and manufactures over 3,000 styles of tufted carpet, tufted and woven rugs, laminate and wood flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade names and under certain private labels. Shaw also provides installation services and sells ceramic and vinyl tile along with sheet vinyl. Shaw’s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the finishing of carpet. Shaw’s carpet, rugs and hard surface products are sold in a broad range of prices, patterns, colors and textures. Shaw acquired Sportexe (now Shaw Sports Turf) in 2009 and Southwest Greens International, LLC in 2011 which provides an entry into the synthetic sports turf, golf greens and landscape turf markets.  

Shaw products are sold wholesale to over 32,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico and are also exported to various overseas markets. Shaw’s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 2,000 salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw’s nine carpet, three hard surface, one rug and one sample full-service distribution facilities and 23 redistribution centers, along with centralized management information systems, enable it to provide prompt efficient delivery of its products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.  

Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene and polyester. In the tufting process, yarn is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming loops which may be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or construction. During 2013, Shaw processed approximately 98% of its requirements for carpet yarn in its own yarn processing facilities. The availability of raw materials continues to be good but margins are impacted by petro-chemical and natural gas price changes. Raw material cost changes are periodically factored into selling prices to customers.  

16  

Table of Contents 

The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 100 companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of carpet in the United States and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard surface floor covering production and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately 55% of the total United States consumption of all flooring types. The principal competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.  

Demand for products of Berkshire’s building products businesses is affected to varying degrees by commercial construction and industrial activity in the U.S. and Europe and the level of U.S. housing construction. The building products businesses are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances. The building products manufacturers employ approximately 36,000 persons in the aggregate.  

Other Manufacturing  

In September 2011, Berkshire acquired The Lubrizol Corporation (“Lubrizol”). Lubrizol is a specialty chemical company that produces and supplies technologies for the global transportation, industrial and consumer markets. Lubrizol operates two business sectors: (1) Lubrizol Additives, which includes engine additives, driveline additives and industrial specialties products; and (2) Lubrizol Advanced Materials, which includes personal and home care, engineered polymers, performance coatings, and life science polymers products. Lubrizol’s products are used in a broad range of applications including engine oils, transmission fluids, gear oils, specialty driveline lubricants, fuel additives, refineries and oilfields, metalworking fluids, compressor lubricants, greases for transportation and industrial applications, over-the-counter pharmaceutical products, performance coatings, personal care products, sporting goods and plumbing and fire sprinkler systems. Lubrizol is an industry leader in many of the markets in which it competes. Its principal lubricant additives competitors are Infineum International Ltd., Chevron Oronite Company and Afton Chemical Corporation. The advanced materials industry is highly fragmented with a variety of competitors in each product line.  

From a base of approximately 2,075 patents, Lubrizol uses its technological leadership position in product development and formulation expertise to improve the quality, value and performance of its products, as well as to help minimize the environmental impact of those products. Lubrizol uses many specialty and commodity chemical raw materials in its manufacturing processes and uses base oil in processing and blending additives. Raw materials are primarily feedstocks derived from petroleum and petrochemicals and, generally, are obtainable from several sources. The materials that Lubrizol chooses to purchase from a single source typically are subject to long-term supply contracts to ensure supply reliability. Lubrizol markets its products worldwide through a direct sales organization and sales agents and distributors where necessary. Lubrizol’s customers principally consist of major global and regional oil companies and industrial and consumer products companies that are located in more than 110 countries. Some of its largest customers also may be suppliers. In 2013, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of Lubrizol’s consolidated revenues.  

Lubrizol continues to implement a multi-year phased investment plan to increase global manufacturing capacity, upgrade operations and ensure compliance with health, safety and environmental requirements. As part of the investment plan, in August 2013, Lubrizol completed construction of its $310 million additives manufacturing facility and research laboratory in Zhuhai, China, and Lubrizol is implementing plans to invest approximately $150 million to increase chlorinated polyvinyl chloride resin and compounding capacity by the end of 2014 to meet global customer demand. Capital spending in 2013 was approximately $350 million. Capital expenditures over the next three years are expected to approximate $1.5 billion.  

Lubrizol is subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws to protect the environment and limit manufacturing waste and emissions. The company believes that its policies, practices and procedures are designed to limit the risk of environmental damage and consequent financial liability. Nevertheless, the operation of manufacturing plants entails ongoing environmental risks, and significant costs or liabilities could be incurred in the future.  

Lubrizol operates facilities in 27 countries (including production facilities in 16 countries and laboratories in 14 countries). On August 30, 2013, Lubrizol completed the acquisition of Chemtool, Inc., a leading global supplier of custom formulated greases and lubricants.  

Berkshire acquired an 80% interest in IMC International Metalworking Companies B.V. (“IMC B.V.”) in 2006. On April 29, 2013, Berkshire acquired the remaining 20% noncontrolling interests of IMC B.V. Through its subsidiaries, IMC B.V. is one of the world’s three largest multinational manufacturers of consumable precision carbide metal cutting tools for applications in a broad range of industrial end markets. IMC B.V.’s principal brand names include ISCAR®, TaeguTec®, Ingersoll®, Tungaloy®, Unitac®, UOP It.te.di® and Outiltec®. IMC B.V.’s manufacturing facilities are located mainly in Israel, United States, Germany, Italy, France, Switzerland, South Korea, China, India, Japan and Brazil.  

17  

Table of Contents 

IMC B.V. has five primary product lines: milling tools, gripping tools, turning/thread tools, drilling tools and tooling. The main products are split within each product line between consumable cemented tungsten carbide inserts and steel tool holders. Inserts comprise the vast majority of sales and earnings. Metal cutting inserts are used by industrial manufactures to cut metals and are consumed during their use in cutting applications. IMC B.V. manufactures hundreds of types of highly engineered inserts within each product line that are tailored to maximize productivity and meet the technical requirements of customers.  

IMC B.V.’s global sales and marketing network has representatives in virtually every major manufacturing center around the world staffed with highly skilled engineers and technical personnel. IMC B.V.’s customer base is very diverse, with its primary customers being large, multinational businesses in the automotive, aerospace, engineering and machinery industries. IMC B.V. operates a regional central warehouse system with locations in Israel, United States, Belgium, Korea and Brazil. Additional small quantities of products are maintained at local IMC B.V. offices in order to provide on-time customer support and inventory management.  

IMC B.V. competes in the metal cutting tools segment of the global metalworking tools market. The segment includes hundreds of participants who range from small, private manufacturers of specialized products for niche applications and markets to larger, global multinationals with a wide assortment of products and extensive distribution networks.  

Forest River, Inc. (“Forest River”) is a manufacturer of recreational vehicles, utility, cargo and office trailers, buses and pontoon boats, headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana. Its products are sold in the United States and Canada through an independent dealer network. Forest River has manufacturing facilities in six states.  

CTB International Corp. (“CTB”), headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a leading global designer, manufacturer and marketer of agricultural systems and solutions for preserving grain, producing poultry, pigs and eggs, and for processing poultry. CTB operates from facilities located around the globe and supports customers in more than 100 countries primarily through a worldwide network of independent distributors and dealers.  

The Scott Fetzer companies are a diversified group of 20 businesses that manufacture, distribute, service and finance a wide variety of products for residential, industrial and institutional use. The two most significant of these businesses are Kirby home cleaning systems and Campbell Hausfeld. Albecca Inc. (“Albecca”), headquartered in Norcross, Georgia, does business primarily under the Larson-Juhl® name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass, equipment and other framing supplies in the U.S., Canada and 15 countries outside of North America. Richline Group, Inc. is the business platform providing financial, operations and marketing support to its four independent strategic business units: Richline Brands, LeachGarner, Rio Grande and Inverness. Each business unit is uniquely a manufacturer and marketer of precious metal products to specific target markets including large jewelry chains, department stores, shopping networks, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and artisans plus worldwide manufacturers and wholesalers.  

Berkshire’s other manufacturers employ approximately 38,000 persons in the aggregate.  

Other Service Businesses  

FlightSafety International Inc. (“FlightSafety”), headquartered at New York’s LaGuardia Airport, is an industry leader in professional aviation training services to individuals, businesses (including certain commercial aviation companies) and U.S. and foreign governments. FlightSafety primarily provides high technology training to pilots, aircraft maintenance technicians, flight attendants and dispatchers who operate and support a wide variety of business, commercial and military aircraft. FlightSafety operates a large fleet of advanced full flight simulators at its learning centers and training locations in the United States, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Japan, Norway, South Africa, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. The vast majority of FlightSafety’s instructors, training programs and flight simulators are qualified by the United States Aviation Administration and other aviation regulatory agencies around the world.  

FlightSafety is also a leader in the design and manufacture of full flight simulators, visual systems, displays, and other advanced technology training devices. This equipment is used to support FlightSafety training programs and is offered for sale to airlines and government and military organizations around the world. Manufacturing facilities are located in Oklahoma, Missouri and Texas. FlightSafety strives to maintain and manufacture simulators and develop courseware using state of the art technology and invests in research and development as it builds new equipment and training programs.  

NetJets Inc. (“NetJets”) is the world’s leading provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation aircraft. NetJets’ executive offices and U.S. operations are located in Columbus, Ohio, with most of its logistical and flight operations based at Port Columbus International Airport. NetJets’ European operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal. The fractional  

18  

Table of Contents 

 ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of customers who cannot justify the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership programs are available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation needs or looking for additional capacity for peak periods and for others that previously chartered aircraft.  

NetJets’ fractional aircraft ownership programs permit customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allow customers to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight hours per annum. In addition, NetJets offers prepaid flight cards and aviation solutions that provide aircraft management, ground support and flight operation services under a number of programs including NetJets Shares™, NetJets Leases™ and the Marquis Jet Card®. In 2010, NetJets introduced the NetJets Signature Series™ of aircraft, which have been customized from design through production based on feedback from owners.  

NetJets is subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration, the National Institute of Civil Aviation of Portugal, and the European Aviation Safety Agency. Regulations address aircraft registration, maintenance requirements, pilot qualifications and airport operations, including flight planning and scheduling as well as security issues and other matters. NetJets places great emphasis on safety and customer service. Its programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, low and predictable operating costs and increased liquidity.  

TTI, Inc. (“TTI”), headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, is a global specialty distributor of passive, interconnect, electromechanical and discrete components used by customers in the manufacturing and assembling of electronic products. TTI’s customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, electronic manufacturing services, original design manufacturers, military and commercial customers, as well as design and system engineers. TTI services a variety of industries including telecommunications, medical devices, computers and office equipment, aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics. TTI’s business model covers design through production in the electronic component supply chain and consists of its core business, which supports high volume production business and its catalog division, which supports a broader base of customers with lower volume purchases.  

TTI’s franchise distribution agreements with the industry’s leading suppliers allow it to uniquely leverage its product cost and to expand its business by providing new lines and products to its customers. TTI operates sales offices and distribution centers from more than 100 locations throughout North America, Europe, Asia and Israel. In April 2012, TTI acquired Sager Electrical Supply Company, Inc. (“Sager”), a leading distributor of electronic components headquartered in Middleborough, Massachusetts. Sager’s business model and focus on electromechanical products allows TTI to further provide customers and suppliers a unique combination of operational excellence and innovative business solutions and to expand its customer base.  

Business Wire provides electronic dissemination of full-text news releases to the media, online services and databases and the global investment community in 150 countries and in 45 languages. Roughly 90% of the company’s revenue comes from its core business of news distribution. The Buffalo News and BH Media Group, Inc. (“BHMG”) are publishers of 31 daily and 41 weekly newspapers in upstate New York, New Jersey, Nebraska, Iowa, Oklahoma, Texas, Virginia, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, Alabama and Florida. In 2013, BHMG acquired four daily newspapers in Oklahoma, Virginia, North Carolina and New Jersey. The newspapers operate in small to mid-sized markets with strong local community connections. International Dairy Queen services a worldwide system of over 6,300 stores operating under the names Dairy Queen®, Orange Julius® and Karmelkorn® that offer various dairy desserts, beverages, prepared foods, blended fruit drinks, popcorn and other snack foods. Precision Steel and its affiliates operate steel service centers in the Chicago and Charlotte metropolitan areas. The service centers buy stainless steel, low carbon sheet and strip steel, coated metals, spring steel, and other metals, cut these metals to order, and sell them to customers involved in a wide variety of industries.  

Berkshire’s service businesses employ approximately 21,000 persons in the aggregate.  

Retailing Businesses—Berkshire’s retailing businesses principally consist of several independently managed home furnishings and jewelry operations. These retailers employ approximately 15,000 persons. Information regarding each of these operations follows.  

The home furnishings businesses are the Nebraska Furniture Mart (“NFM”), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture Company (“Star”) and Jordan’s Furniture, Inc. (“Jordan’s”). NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s each offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line of major household appliances, electronics, computers and other home furnishings. NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan’s also offer customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business volume by offering significant value to their customers.  

19  

Table of Contents 

NFM operates its business from two very large retail complexes with almost one million square feet of retail space and sizable warehouse and administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska and Kansas City, Kansas. NFM is the largest furniture retailer in each of its markets. NFM also owns Homemakers Furniture located in Des Moines, Iowa, which has approximately 215,000 square feet of retail space. In late 2011, NFM announced that it plans to build a new retail store, warehouse and administrative facility in a suburb of Dallas, Texas. The store is expected to include approximately 1.8 million square feet of retail and warehouse space and anchor a multi-use retail and entertainment development site. The completion of the new facilities is scheduled for 2015.  

R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, is the dominant home furnishings retailer in the Intermountain West region of the United States. R.C. Willey operates 11 retail stores, two retail clearance facilities and three distribution centers. These facilities include approximately 1.7 million square feet of retail space with eight stores located in Utah, one store in Idaho, three stores in Nevada and one store in California. Star’s retail facilities include about 700,000 square feet of retail space in 11 locations in Texas with eight in Houston. Star maintains a dominant position in each of its markets. Jordan’s operates a furniture retail business from five locations with approximately 625,000 square feet of retail space in Massachusetts, New Hampshire and Rhode Island supported by an 800,000 square foot distribution center in Taunton, Massachusetts. Jordan’s is the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. Jordan’s is well known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns.  

Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc. (“Borsheims”) operates from two locations in Nebraska, a 62,000 square foot flagship store in Omaha and a 5,500 square foot outlet store in Gretna. Borsheims is a high volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. Helzberg’s Diamond Shops, Inc. (“Helzberg”) is based in North Kansas City, Missouri, and operates a chain of 234 retail jewelry stores in 37 states, which includes approximately 500,000 square feet of retail space. Helzberg’s stores are located in malls, lifestyle centers, power strip centers and outlet malls, and all stores operate under the name Helzberg Diamonds® or Helzberg Diamonds Outlet®. The Ben Bridge Corporation (“Ben Bridge Jeweler”), based in Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 80 upscale retail jewelry stores located in 11 states that are primarily in the Western United States and Canada. Fifteen of its retail locations are concept stores that sell only PANDORA jewelry. Principal products include finished jewelry and timepieces. Ben Bridge Jeweler stores are located primarily in major shopping malls. Berkshire’s retail jewelry operations are subject to seasonality with approximately 36% of annual revenues earned in the fourth quarter.  

Also included in Berkshire’s group of retailing businesses is See’s Candies (“See’s”), which produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in Los Angeles and San Francisco and one smaller facility in Burlingame, California. See’s operates over 200 retail and quantity discount stores located mainly in California and other Western states. See’s revenues are highly seasonal with approximately 45% of total annual revenues earned in the months of November and December. The Pampered Chef, LTD (“TPC”) is a premier direct seller of high quality kitchen tools with operations in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Germany and Mexico. TPC product portfolio consists of approximately 500 TPC branded items in twelve categories, which are researched, designed and tested by TPC and manufactured by third-party suppliers. TPC products are available primarily through a sales force of independent consultants.  

Oriental Trading Company, Inc. (“OTC”) is a leading multi-channel retailer and online destination for value-priced party supplies, arts and crafts, toys and novelties, school supplies, educational games, home décor and giftware. OTC, based in Omaha, Nebraska, serves a broad base of nearly four million customers annually including consumers, schools, churches, non-profit organizations and other businesses. OTC operates a number of websites and utilizes multiple print and online marketing efforts.  

Finance and Financial Products  

Clayton Homes, Inc. (“Clayton”), which is headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated manufactured housing company. At December 31, 2013, Clayton operated 35 manufacturing plants in 12 states. Clayton’s homes are marketed in 48 states through a network of 1,528 retailers, including 322 company-owned home centers. Financing is offered through its finance subsidiaries to purchasers of Clayton’s manufactured homes as well as those purchasing homes from selected independent retailers.  

Clayton competes at the manufacturing, retail and finance levels on the basis of price, service, delivery capabilities and product performance and considers the ability to make financing available to retail purchasers a major factor affecting the market acceptance of its product. Retail sales are supported by Clayton’s offering of various finance and insurance programs.  

20  

Table of Contents 

 Finance programs include home note and mortgage originations supporting company-owned home centers and select independent retailers. Proprietary loan underwriting guidelines have been developed and include gross income, debt to income limits and credit score requirements, which are considered in evaluating loan applicants. Approximately 62% of the originations are home-only loans and the remaining 38% have land as additional collateral. The average down payment is about 20%, which may be from cash or land equity. Each loan with land will have an independent appraisal in order to establish the value of the land. Originations are all at fixed rates and for fixed terms. Loans outstanding also include bulk purchases of contracts and mortgages from banks and other lenders. Clayton also provides inventory financing to certain independent retailers and services housing contracts and mortgages that were not purchased or originated. The bulk contract purchases and servicing arrangements may relate to the portfolios of other lenders or finance companies, governmental agencies, or other entities that purchase and hold housing contracts and mortgages. Clayton also acts as agent on physical damage insurance policies, home buyer protection plan policies and other programs.  

XTRA Corporation (“XTRA”), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading transportation equipment lessor operating under the XTRA Lease® brand name. XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 80,000 units located at 56 facilities throughout the United States. The fleet includes over-the-road and storage trailers, chassis, temperature controlled vans and flatbed trailers. XTRA is one of the largest lessors (in terms of units available) of over-the-road trailers in North America. Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing. Therefore, as a provider of marginal capacity of transportation equipment, XTRA’s utilization rates (the number of units on lease to total units available) and operating results tend to be cyclical. In addition, transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a broad selection of equipment and quick response times.  

CORT Business Services Corporation is the leading national provider of rental relocation services including rental furniture, accessories and related services in the “rent-to-rent” segment of the furniture rental industry. BH Finance invests in fixed-income financial instruments pursuant to proprietary strategies with the objective of earning above average investment returns. BH Finance also enters into derivative contracts and assumes foreign currency, equity price and credit default risk. This business is conducted from Berkshire’s corporate headquarters. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur due to the nature of these activities as well as the markets in general. Berkshire’s finance and financial products businesses employ approximately 14,000 persons.  

Additional information with respect to Berkshire’s businesses  

The amounts of revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to the aforementioned business segments are included in Note 23 to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding Berkshire’s investments in fixed maturity securities, equity securities and other investments is included in Notes 3, 4 and 5 to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

On June 7, 2013, Berkshire and an affiliate of the global investment firm 3G Capital (such affiliate, “3G”), through a newly formed holding company, H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation (“Heinz Holding”), acquired H.J. Heinz Company (“Heinz”). Berkshire and 3G each made equity investments in Heinz Holding, which, together with debt financing obtained by Heinz Holding, was used to acquire Heinz for approximately $23.25 billion. Additional information concerning these investments is included in Note 6 to the Registrant’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Heinz is one of the world’s leading marketers and producers of healthy, convenient and affordable foods specializing in ketchup, sauces, meals, soups, snacks and infant nutrition. Heinz is a global family of leading branded products, including Heinz® Ketchup, sauces, soups, beans, pasta, infant foods, Ore-Ida® potato products, Weight Watchers® Smart Ones® entrées and T.G.I. Friday’s® snacks.  

Berkshire maintains a website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com) where its annual reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim shareholder reports and links to its subsidiaries’ websites can be found. Berkshire’s periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of these reports can be accessed at the SEC’s website (http://www.sec.gov) and indirectly through Berkshire’s website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com). Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3555 Farnam Street, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these reports from the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).  

21  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors