Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

Forward-Looking Information and Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results  

From time to time, including in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These “forward-looking statements” may relate to such matters as our anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, the expected content of and timing for new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the content and timing of planned entertainment releases including motion pictures and television; and marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. Forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “looking forward,” “may,” “planned,” “potential,” “should,” “will” and “would” or any variations of words with similar meanings. We note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. The factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as on Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K. We undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts.  

The volatility of changing consumer interests makes it difficult to design and develop products which will be popular with children and families.  

The children’s and family entertainment business is one in which consumer interests evolve extremely quickly and can change dramatically from year to year. To be successful requires properly anticipating what content, properties and products will capture children’s and families’ interests and imagination, and then quickly developing and marketing products to meet those interests. Critical to this process is understanding market insights that drive product popularity and providing innovative product offerings which can compete successfully against many other products for consumers’ limited time, attention and spending.  

Our performance depends on our successful ability to develop, market and sell innovative toys, games and other entertainment offerings, and license our brands for products which are sought after by consumers, including both children and their parents. We need to do this in an environment of rapidly evolving consumer tastes and increasing utilization of technology and digital media in product offerings. Consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment are continuously changing and are difficult to anticipate. We may not successfully identify, design and market product offerings which are sought after by consumers. Evolving consumer tastes, coupled with an ever changing pipeline of entertainment and consumer properties and products which compete for  

10  

Table of Contents 

 children’s and families’ interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be extremely popular during a certain period in time but then rapidly be replaced in consumers’ minds with other properties. As a result, individual family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles.  

If we devote time and resources to developing entertainment and consumer products that consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in significant quantities to be profitable to us, our sales and profits will decline and our business performance will be damaged. Similarly, brands or products that were successful at one time may lose consumer interest over time as tastes change and product innovation continues. Our success is critically dependent upon developing and maintaining the consumer appeal of our brands and products and in our ongoing ability to achieve and maintain market interest in and acceptance of our offerings to a degree that enables those brands and products to be profitable.  

Additionally, our business is increasingly global and depends on interest in and acceptance of our entertainment and consumer product offerings by consumers in diverse markets outside of the United States. As such, our success depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences in different markets and geographies and to design product offerings that can achieve popularity globally over a broad and diverse consumer audience.  

A decline in the popularity of our existing brands, products and product lines, or the failure of our new brands, products and product lines to achieve and sustain sufficient interest from retailers and consumers, could significantly lower our revenues and operating margins, which would in turn harm our profitability, business and financial condition. The challenge of continuously developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the sophistication of today’s children and the incredible array of entertainment offerings available to them. Children are expanding their interests beyond traditional toys and games to a wider array of innovative, technology driven entertainment products at younger and younger ages and, as a result, at younger and younger ages, our products compete with the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies, digital media and social media companies, and other businesses outside of the traditional toy and game industry.  

There is no guarantee that:  

   •    Any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular;  

   •    Any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity;  

   •    Any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; or  

   •    Any product’s life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product.  

An inability to develop and introduce planned new brands, products and product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business.  

In developing new brands, products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. When we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. There is no guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands. This risk is heightened by our customers’ compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. The risk is also exacerbated by the increasing sophistication of many of the products we are designing, in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. Unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued.  

11  

Table of Contents 

The children’s and family entertainment industry is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors our sales, market share and profitability could decline.  

The children’s and family entertainment industry is, and will continue to be, highly competitive. We compete domestically and internationally with a wide array of large and small manufacturers, marketers, and sellers of toys, games, video games, digital media and other entertainment and consumer products, as well as with retailers. We face competitors who are constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes and trends, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer purchasing.  

In addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the children’s and family entertainment industry are low, and the increasing importance of digital media, and the heightened connection between digital media and consumer interest, has further increased the ability for new participants to enter our markets. New participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. These existing and new competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than us to changes in consumer preferences. In some cases our competitors’ products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products, lower our sales and lower our profitability.  

Delays or increased costs associated with the development and offering of entertainment media based upon or related to our brands, or lack of sufficient consumer interest in such entertainment media, can harm our business and profitability.  

As part of our strategy of offering immersive branded play experiences, we look to offer consumers the ability to enjoy our brands in as many different forms and formats as possible. Entertainment media, in forms such as motion pictures and television, can provide popular platforms for consumers to experience our brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact the demand for our products and our financial success.  

The success of our products is often dependent on the timelines and effectiveness of media efforts by us and our partners. Television programming, motion picture and DVD releases, comic book releases, and other media efforts are often critical in generating interest in our products and brands and we spend considerable amounts of time and sums of money in designing and developing products in conjunction with planned media releases. Not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the timing of media development, release dates and the ultimate consumer interest in and success of these media efforts.  

For example, development and release of motion pictures based on our brands involves working extremely closely with our studio partners in indentifying projects, developing them, and scheduling them for release. The ultimate timing and success of such projects is critically dependent on the efforts and schedules of our studio partners. We do not fully control when or if any particular motion picture projects will be greenlit or released. This can make it difficult for us to plan our future movie slates and to successfully develop and market products in conjunction with future motion picture releases, given the lengthy lead times involved in product development and successful marketing efforts.  

When we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. Unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. Any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business.  

Even when motion pictures, television or other media is developed and released, consumers may not be as interested in that media, and in any associated products, as we had anticipated. While it is difficult to anticipate what products may be sought after by consumers, it can be even more difficult to properly predict the popularity of media efforts, given the broad array of competing offerings. If our and our partners’ media efforts fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed.  

12  

Table of Contents 

In 2009 we entered into a joint venture with Discovery Communications, Inc. Through that joint venture, we launched a children’s and family entertainment channel called THE HUB in October of 2010. In connection with this joint venture effort, we also developed a wholly-owned studio, called Hasbro Studios, which is responsible for developing and producing television entertainment media, based on our owned and licensed brands. The television programming developed by Hasbro Studios is offered in the United States on THE HUB and is distributed on other networks internationally.  

THE HUB is competing with a number of other children’s television networks in the United States for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. There is no guarantee that THE HUB will be successful. Similarly, Hasbro Studios’ programming distributed internationally competes with programming from many other parties. Lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of programming developed by Hasbro Studios or other programming appearing on THE HUB, and products related to that programming, could significantly harm our business, particularly given that we are investing significant sums of money developing that programming. Similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with our investment in THE HUB, such as difficulties in increasing subscribers to the network or in building advertising revenues for THE HUB. During 2011 the Company incurred $80,983 for programming developed by Hasbro Studios and anticipates that it will continue spending at comparable levels in 2012 and future years.  

At December 25, 2011, $343,835, or 8.3%, of our total assets represented our investment in THE HUB. If THE HUB does not achieve success, or there are subsequent declines in the success or profitability of the channel, then our investment may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings.  

U.S., global and regional economic downturns that negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or that otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance.  

We design, manufacture and market a wide variety of entertainment and consumer products worldwide through sales to our retail customers and directly to consumers. Our financial performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending. Recessions and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the U.S. and in other markets in which our products are marketed and sold can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. Similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. Any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. This in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability.  

In addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending and/or sales allowances, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. Those steps may lower our net revenues or increase our costs, thereby decreasing our operating margins and lowering our profitability.  

Given the difficult economic conditions in the United States over the past few years, we have been challenged in our efforts to grow our U.S. business and improve its profitability. As long as economic conditions in the U.S. remain difficult, this will be an additional challenge we must face and overcome if we are to succeed in our efforts at growing this business. Similarly, while our European business has grown significantly in recent years, our future success in Europe is dependent upon economic conditions in Europe. A European sovereign debt crisis or other significant negative shock to European markets could lead to a recession in Europe, which would negatively impact consumers and in turn, sales of our products in the European markets.  

13  

Table of Contents 

Other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability.  

Various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our sales, profitability and our business.  

Significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary branded play entertainment products we offer. As we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. Economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices or labor costs, or the prospect of such events. Such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability.  

Our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. Rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business.  

Other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. Additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. For example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. Any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products.  

Our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the United States subject us to risks associated with international operations.  

We operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the United States. For the year ended December 25, 2011, our net revenues from international customers comprised approximately 50% of our total consolidated net revenues. We expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. In fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved markets. Additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers located principally in the Far East, to produce the majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in Ireland. These sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including:  

   •    Currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations;  

   •    Limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings;  

   •    Potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions;  

   •    Political instability, civil unrest and economic instability;  

   •    Greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights;  

   •    Complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies;  

14  

Table of Contents 

   •    Difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the United States;  

   •    Natural disasters and the greater difficulty and expense in recovering therefrom;  

   •    Difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions;  

   •    Changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and  

   •    The imposition of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures.  

Because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our increasing global business.  

Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly impact our reported financial performance.  

Our global operations mean we produce and buy products, and sell products, in many different jurisdictions with many different foreign currencies. As a result, if the exchange rate between the United States dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results, reported in U.S. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. As an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net sales, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into U.S. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. As such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. Similarly, our expenses in foreign markets can be significantly impacted, in U.S. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in U.S. dollar terms can be negatively impacted by exchange rate movements which we do not control.  

We may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties.  

In addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by third parties and licensed to us. The success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as BEYBLADE, MARVEL, SESAME STREET or STAR WARS related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. If we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. In addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. The loss of rights granted pursuant to any of our licensing agreements could harm our business and competitive position.  

The license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. At December 25, 2011, we had $134,730 of prepaid royalties, $16,788 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $117,942 of which are included in other assets. Under the terms of existing contracts as of December 25, 2011, we may be required to pay future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $235,000. Acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses that we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. Additionally, as a licensee of entertainment based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy, game or other family entertainment products, and underperformance of any such products may result in reduced revenues and operating profit for us.  

15  

Table of Contents 

We anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. In the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed.  

Our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. This seasonality is exacerbated by retailers’ quick response inventory management techniques.  

Sales of our toys, games and other family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through December in anticipation of the holiday season, including Christmas. This seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. Customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. For toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. As a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from September through December, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. While these techniques reduce a retailer’s investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier.  

The limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales, resulting in lower revenues for us. If we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to fully capture consumer interest in the product. Additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. This seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. Our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. In addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as a terrorist attack or economic shock, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events, such as strikes or port delays, that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the Far East, during the critical months leading up to the holiday purchasing season.  

The concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies or patterns of our major customers could have a significant impact on us.  

We depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. For the fiscal year ended December 25, 2011, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Target Corporation, accounted for approximately 20%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us and Target, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 45% of our consolidated net revenues. In the U.S. and Canada segment, approximately 68% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. If one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, favor competitors or new entrants, increase their direct competition with us by expanding their private-label business, change their purchasing patterns, alter the manner in which they promote  

16  

Table of Contents 

 our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. Customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering purchase orders. Any customer could reduce its overall purchase of our products, and reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products. In addition, increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. Furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and result in higher bad debt expense.  

Our use of third-party manufacturers to produce the majority of our toy products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business.  

We own and operate two game and puzzle manufacturing facilities, one in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and the other in Waterford, Ireland. However, most of our toy products, in addition to certain other products, are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in the People’s Republic of China. Although our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a significant period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary, if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, civil, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations would be substantially disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time, while alternative sources of supply were secured. This delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability, and harm our business.  

Given that the majority of our toy manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers located in China, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in China and affecting the movement of people and products into and from China to our major markets, including North America and Europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in China, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. Factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the Chinese Yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in China, labor shortages and increases in labor costs in China, and difficulties in moving products manufactured in China out of Asia and through the ports in North America and Europe, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors, and natural disasters or health pandemics impacting China. Also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the United States or the European Union against products imported by us from, or the loss of “normal trade relations” status with, China, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the United States or Europe and harm our business. Additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third-party manufacturer by government inspectors in China could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales.  

We require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our Global Business Ethics Principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured by or for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. Our Global Business Ethics Principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. In addition, Hasbro requires that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. Hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our Global Business Ethics Principles and other manufacturing requirements. In addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. Notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. Any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Greater than expected costs or difficulties associated with the implementation of our plan to reinvent our gaming business may harm our revenues and profitability.  

Recognizing the critical need for increased innovation and a change in the way we go to market with gaming products in order to remain successful in the gaming business in the future, in 2011 we began implementing a ten point strategy to reinvent our gaming business. The objective of this plan is to stabilize our gaming business in 2012, and to position it to grow in 2013 and beyond. As part of executing this strategy, in the second quarter of 2011 we announced our creation of a Gaming Center of Excellence in Rhode Island. Our strategy to drive our gaming business in the future involves substantial changes in how we market our gaming products to consumers and how we position them at retail, a focus on delivering industry leading innovation in gaming, a change in our allocation of focus across gaming brands, greater penetration of our brands into digital gaming and the successful combination of analog and digital gaming. We also are designing our gaming products to recognize the need to provide immersive game-play in shorter periods of time, and to offer innovative face to face and off the board gaming opportunities. Our failure to successfully implement our strategy to reinvent our gaming business and to otherwise stabilize and grow our gaming business in the future could substantially harm our business, resulting in lost revenues and lost profits. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our global gaming strategy.  

Our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees.  

Our officers and employees are at the heart of all of our branded play efforts. It is their skill, innovation and hard work that drive our success. We compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and other employees. There is no guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and other employees we need to succeed. Our loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people we need in the future, could significantly harm our business.  

Part of our strategy for remaining relevant to children is to offer innovative children’s toy and game electronic products incorporating greater technology. The margins on many of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have a shorter lifespan than more traditional toys and games. As a result, sales of children’s toy and game electronic products may lower our overall operating margins and produce more volatility in our business.  

As children have grown “older younger” and have otherwise become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as videogames, consumer electronics and social and digital media, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant for these consumers. One initiative we have pursued to capture the interest of children is to offer innovative children’s electronic toy and game products. Examples of such products in the last few years include our FURREAL FRIENDS line of products, including COOKIE-MY PLAYFUL PUP, BUTTERSCOTCH PONY and BISCUIT-MY LOVIN’ PUP. Increasing the marriage between digital and analog gaming and increasing the technology in our gaming products is another key for our future strategy. These electronic and digital products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase our sales. However, children’s electronics, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks.  

Our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic and digital products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. The ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. As a consequence, our margins on the sales of electronic products tend to be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs. In addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics area is potentially even greater than for our other products. This pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games.  

18  

Table of Contents 

We rely on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. If we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed.  

Due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. We currently have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2014, which provides for a $500,000 committed revolving credit facility. The credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. These restrictive covenants may limit our future actions, and financial, operating and strategic flexibility. In addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. Our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. Non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations.  

In early 2011 we established a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, will allow us to issue up to $500,000 in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a further source of working capital funding and liquidity. There is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time.  

Not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. In times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. In such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding.  

We also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. Our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. The condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. The failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities.  

As of December 25, 2011, we had $1,384,895 of total principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. If we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. There is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all.  

As a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. In addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business.  

As a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the United States, under The Consumer Products Safety Act, The Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and The Flammable Fabrics Act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. In addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration or similar international authorities. In addition, advertising to children is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Communications Commission and a host of other agencies globally. While we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance, and failure to comply with these acts could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to involuntary product  

19  

Table of Contents 

 recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. While costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year, could be significant. In addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations.  

Governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future, and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. In addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. Complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. Similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. Such increased costs or penalties could harm our business.  

As a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition.  

Our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. In addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings.  

Our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, is of great value. We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands in the U.S. and around the world. From time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property in the U.S. and around the world. In addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. We may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. Much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our balance sheet. However, as of December 25, 2011, we had $467,293 of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet. Declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. Reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results.  

We may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization.  

Acquisitions have been a significant part of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. In making acquisitions, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or the ability for us to leverage our entertainment offerings. In the case of our joint venture with Discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. However, we cannot be certain that the products of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, in the future will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products. In some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. However, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. Even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their  

20  

Table of Contents 

 realization. In other cases, we acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. We cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will develop popular and profitable products or services in the future.  

Failure to operate our information systems and implement new technology effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability.  

We rely extensively on various information technology systems and software applications, to manage many aspects of our business, including management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products and various other process transactions. We are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. These systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees. The efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends on these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate upgrades or new technologies and systems and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, require significant capital investments to remediate a problem or subject us to liability.  

If our electronic data is compromised our business could be significantly harmed.  

We maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. This data relates to all aspects of our business and also contains certain customer and consumer data. We maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion or tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. In addition, we provide confidential and proprietary information to our third party business partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. While we obtain assurances from those parties that they have systems and processes in place to protect such data, and where applicable, that they will take steps to assure the protections of such data by third parties, nonetheless those partners may also be subject to data intrusion or otherwise compromise the protection of such data. Any compromise of the confidential data of our customers, our consumers, or ourselves could have a negative effect on our business.  

From time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense.  

As is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes, including potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of products that have been or may be developed by us. Because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant expense for us and harm our business. The fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. Any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

We have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings.  

Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. Goodwill is not amortized and is required to be periodically evaluated for impairment. At December 25, 2011, $474,792, or 11.5%, of our total assets represented goodwill. Declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill. Reductions in our net earnings caused by the write-down of goodwill could harm our results of operations.  

21  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

 Item 2. Properties.