PART I  

 Item 1. Business.  

General Development and Description of Business and Business Segments  

Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, as used herein, “Hasbro”, the “Company”, “we”, or “us”, means Hasbro, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation organized on January 8, 1926, and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts.  

Overview  

We are a worldwide leader in children’s and family leisure time products with a broad portfolio of brands and entertainment properties. As a branded play, consumer-focused global company, Hasbro applies its brand blueprint to all of its operations. At the center of its brand blueprint, Hasbro re-imagines, re-invents, and re-ignites its owned and controlled brands through toy and game innovation, entertainment offerings, including television programming and motion pictures, and licensed products, ranging from traditional to high-tech and digital, under well-known brand names such as TRANSFORMERS, PLAYSKOOL, NERF, LITTLEST PET SHOP, MY LITTLE PONY, G.I. JOE, TONKA, MILTON BRADLEY, PARKER BROTHERS, CRANIUM and WIZARDS OF THE COAST. Hasbro also seeks to imagine, invent and ignite new properties offering engaging branded play experiences. In addition to product offerings under Hasbro-owned brands or brands which if not entirely owned are broadly controlled by the Company, offerings may include products branded and developed under licensing arrangements with third parties, such as BEYBLADE, MARVEL, SESAME STREET and STAR WARS product offerings. The Company’s innovative product offerings encompass a broad variety of toys including boys’ action figures, vehicles and playsets, girls’ toys, electronic toys, plush products, preschool toys and infant products, electronic interactive products, creative play and toy-related specialty products. Games offerings include board, card, electronic, trading card, role-playing and DVD games. In addition, in order to further expand our brands, we license certain of our trademarks, characters and other property rights to third parties for use in connection with digital gaming, consumer promotions, and for the sale of non-competing toys and games and non-toy products. We also seek to expand awareness of our brands through entertainment, including television and movies. Hasbro Studios, our wholly-owned production studio, produces television programming primarily based on our brands and distributes such programming globally. Hasbro Studios  

1  

Table of Contents 

 distributes television programming to Hub Television Networks, LLC (“THE HUB”), a joint venture with Discovery Communications, Inc. (“Discovery”) which operates a television network in the United States dedicated to high-quality children’s and family entertainment and educational programming. Internationally, Hasbro Studios distributes television programming to broadcasters throughout the world.  

Product Categories  

A key part of our strategy focuses on the importance of reinforcing the storyline associated with our brands through the use of media-based entertainment, including television, motion pictures and digital media. While certain media-based entertainment benefit only one particular product category, others, specifically major motion pictures, can impact more than one product category. In 2011, our net revenues were positively impacted by the major motion picture releases of TRANSFORMERS: DARK OF THE MOON, based on our TRANSFORMERS property, and THOR and CAPTAIN AMERICA: THE FIRST AVENGER, from MARVEL. In 2012, the major motion pictures G.I. JOE: RETALIATION, based on our G.I. JOE property and BATTLESHIP, based on our BATTLESHIP property as well as THE AVENGERS and THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN from MARVEL are expected to be released. Also, STAR WARS: EPISODE I — THE PHANTOM MENACE from Lucasfilm is expected to be re-released in 3D.  

We market our brands under the following primary product categories: (1) boys’ toys; (2) games and puzzles; (3) girls’ toys; and (4) preschool toys. Descriptions of these product categories are as follows:  

Our boys’ toys category includes a wide range of core brand offerings such as TRANSFORMERS and G.I. JOE action figures and accessories, NERF sports and action products, SUPER SOAKER water blasters, KRE-O construction sets and TONKA trucks and playsets, as well as entertainment-based licensed products based on popular movie, television and comic book characters, such as BEYBLADE tops and accessories and MARVEL and STAR WARS toys and accessories. BEYBLADE, STAR WARS and SPIDER-MAN products were each supported by animated television series produced and distributed by third parties in 2011, while TRANSFORMERS was supported by an animated television series produced by Hasbro Studios. During 2012, MARVEL products, particularly SPIDER-MAN and AVENGERS products, will be supported by the major motion picture releases of THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN and THE AVENGERS; STAR WARS toys and accessories will be supported by the theatrical re-release of STAR WARS: EPISODE 1 — THE PHANTOM MENACE in 3D; and G.I. JOE products will be supported by the major motion picture release of G.I. JOE: RETALIATION. In addition to marketing and developing action figures and accessories for traditional play, the Company also develops and markets products designed for collectors, which has been a key component of the success of the STAR WARS brand.  

Our games and puzzles category includes several well known lines, including MILTON BRADLEY, PARKER BROTHERS and WIZARDS OF THE COAST. These brand portfolios consist of a broad assortment of games for children, tweens, families and adults. Core game brands include MONOPOLY, BATTLESHIP, SCRABBLE, OPERATION, CONNECT FOUR, TWISTER, YAHTZEE, JENGA, BOGGLE, ELEFUN & FRIENDS and BOP IT!. Other game brands include but are not limited to TRIVIAL PURSUIT, GAME OF LIFE, CRANIUM, CANDYLAND, CLUE, SIMON, SORRY! and RISK. WIZARDS OF THE COAST offers trading card and role-playing games, including MAGIC: THE GATHERING, DUEL MASTERS and DUNGEONS & DRAGONS. In 2012, we plan to extend the DUEL MASTERS brand through the introduction of KAIJUDO: RISE OF THE DUEL MASTERS which is expected to be supported by television programming developed by Hasbro Studios. We seek to keep our game brands relevant through sustained marketing programs, such as FAMILY GAME NIGHT, as well as by offering consumers new ways to experience these brands. We also seek to extend awareness of our brands through social and mobile platforms. In 2011, in order to reinvigorate our games and puzzles category, we created the Hasbro’s Gaming Center of Excellence in Rhode Island to centralize games marketing and development while building on Hasbro’s strategy of re-imagining, re-inventing and re-igniting core brands as well as inventing new brands. In February 2012 we announced a global partnership with Zynga, Inc. (“Zynga”) which provides Hasbro with the rights to develop a wide range of game and toy products based on Zynga’s social network gaming brands, which currently include FARMVILLE, CITYVILLE and WORDS WITH FRIENDS. We expect to introduce products under this agreement in fall of 2012.  

2  

Table of Contents 

In our girls’ toys category, we seek to provide a traditional and wholesome play experience. Girls’ toy brands include LITTLEST PET SHOP, MY LITTLE PONY, FURREAL FRIENDS and BABY ALIVE. In 2011, the MY LITTLE PONY brand was supported through television programming produced by Hasbro Studios. LITTLEST PET SHOP was refreshed during the fourth quarter of 2011 with the introduction of WALKABLES, TEENSIES and SPARKLE PETS. LITTLEST PET SHOP will also be supported by television programming developed by Hasbro Studios and is expected to be distributed to THE HUB and internationally during the second half of 2012. The LITTLEST PET SHOP brand is further supported by digital gaming through our strategic partnership with Electronic Arts, Inc. (“EA”).  

Our preschool toys category encompasses a range of products for infants and preschoolers in the various stages of development. Preschool products include PLAY-DOH modeling compound and playsets as well as a portfolio of core brands marketed primarily under the PLAYSKOOL brand, including but not limited to such well-known products as MR. POTATO HEAD, WEEBLES, SIT ‘N SPIN and GLOWORM, along with a successful line of infant toys including STEP START WALK’ N RIDE, 2-IN-1 TUMMY TIME GYM and ELEFUN BUSY BALL POPPER. Our preschool category also includes certain TONKA lines of trucks and interactive toys, including the CHUCK & FRIENDS line. In addition, we introduced PLAYSKOOL HEROES under the PLAYSKOOL brand which introduces characters from MARVEL, STAR WARS and TRANSFORMERS to boys at a preschool age. The CHUCK & FRIENDS line was and will continue to be supported by television programming, while the preschool TRANSFORMERS line will be supported by television programming on THE HUB beginning in the first quarter of 2012. In 2011, sales in our preschool category also benefited from the introduction of several educational and interactive products under our licensing agreement with Sesame Workshop that provides us with the licensed rights to produce products based on the SESAME STREET portfolio of characters, including ELMO, GROVER and COOKIE MONSTER, among others. Through our preschool marketing programs, we seek to provide consumer-friendly information that assists parents in understanding the developmental milestones that their children will encounter as well as the role each PLAYSKOOL product can play in helping children to achieve these developmental milestones.  

Segments  

Organizationally, our three principal segments are U.S. and Canada, International and Entertainment and Licensing. The U.S. and Canada and International segments engage in the marketing and selling of various toy and game products described above. Our toy, game and puzzle products are primarily developed by a global development group while our global marketing function establishes brand direction and assists the segments in establishing certain local marketing programs. The costs of these groups are allocated to the principal segments. Our U.S. and Canada segment covers the United States and Canada while the International segment primarily includes Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin and South America. The Entertainment and Licensing segment engages in the out-licensing of our trademarks, characters and other brand and intellectual property rights to third parties for non-competing products and also conducts our movie, television and online entertainment operations, including the operations of Hasbro Studios. Our Global Operations segment is responsible for arranging product manufacturing and sourcing for the U.S. and Canada and International segments. Financial information with respect to our segments and geographic areas is included in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

The Company’s strategy is focused around re-imagining, re-inventing, and re-igniting its existing brands, and imagining, inventing, and igniting new brands, globally through the development and marketing of innovative toy and game products, providing immersive entertainment experiences for our consumers, and expansion of our brands into other consumer products through broad licensing programs, including digital media and lifestyle products. The following is a discussion of each segment.  

U.S. and Canada  

This segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories in the United States and Canada. The U.S. and Canada segment’s strategy is based on promoting our brands through innovation and reinvention of toys and games. This is accomplished through introducing new products and initiatives driven by consumer and  

3  

Table of Contents 

 marketplace insights and leveraging opportunistic toy and game lines and licenses. This strategy leverages off of efforts to increase consumer awareness of the Company’s core brands through entertainment experiences such as motion pictures, television, publishing and digital gaming. Major 2011 brands and products included BEYBLADE products, TRANSFORMERS, NERF, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MARVEL products, STAR WARS products, FURREAL FRIENDS, SESAME STREET products, LITTLEST PET SHOP and PLAYSKOOL.  

International  

The International segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories to retailers and wholesalers in most countries in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin and South America and through distributors in those countries where we have no direct presence. In addition to growing core brands and leveraging opportunistic toy lines and licenses, we seek to grow our international business by continuing to expand into Eastern Europe and emerging markets in Asia and Latin and South America. We have offices in more than 35 countries contributing to sales in more than 120 countries. In recent years, we expanded our operations by opening offices in Brazil, Peru, Colombia, China, Russia, the Czech Republic, Romania and Korea. We plan to continue to expand operations in emerging markets in future years through continued investment. Key international brands for 2011 included BEYBLADE products, TRANSFORMERS, NERF, LITTLEST PET SHOP, PLAY-DOH, FURREAL FRIENDS, PLAYSKOOL, MONOPOLY, STAR WARS products and MAGIC: THE GATHERING.  

Entertainment and Licensing  

Our Entertainment and Licensing segment includes our lifestyle licensing, digital gaming, movie, television and online entertainment operations. Our lifestyle licensing category seeks to promote our brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to third parties for promotional and merchandising uses in businesses which do not compete directly with our own product offerings, such as apparel, publishing, home goods and electronics.  

Our digital gaming category seeks to promote our brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties in the digital area, such as for applications on mobile phones, personal computers, and video game consoles. This is primarily done through our long-term strategic partnership with EA, which provides EA with the exclusive worldwide rights to create digital games for all of these major platforms based on most of our toy and game intellectual properties. In digital gaming, we also have strategic partnerships with Activision, Majesco, Net Dragon, Jagex and Perfect World to develop digital games and applications for 2012 and beyond.  

To support our strategic objective of further developing our brands through television entertainment, we established a wholly-owned television studio, Hasbro Studios, which produces television programming primarily based on our brands as well as third-party branded content, which is distributed on a global basis. In addition, Hasbro Studios has a coordinated development process which aligns with our 50% interest in a joint venture with Discovery that operates a television network in the United States, THE HUB, which debuted in October 2010. THE HUB is dedicated to providing high-quality children’s and family entertainment and educational programming.  

In addition to the above, we also seek to promote and leverage our brands through major motion pictures. In 2009, TRANSFORMERS: REVENGE OF THE FALLEN and G.I. JOE: THE RISE OF COBRA were released based on our brands. In July 2011, TRANSFORMERS: DARK OF THE MOON, the third major motion picture based on the TRANSFORMERS brand, was released. The next motion pictures based on the Company’s properties include BATTLESHIP, which is scheduled to be released in 2012 by Universal Pictures, and G.I. JOE: RETALIATION, which is scheduled to be released in 2012 by Paramount Pictures. The Company has motion picture projects based on other brands in development for potential release in future years.  

Major motion pictures and television programming based on our own and controlled brands provide our consumers with the ability to experience these properties in a different format, which we believe can result in  

4  

Table of Contents 

 increased product sales, royalty revenues, and overall brand awareness. To a lesser extent, we can also earn revenue from our participation in the financial results of motion pictures and related DVD releases and through the distribution of television programming. Revenue from toy and game product sales is a component of the U.S. and Canada and International segments, while royalty revenues, including revenues earned from movies and television programming, is included in the Entertainment and Licensing segment.  

Global Operations  

In our Global Operations segment, we manufacture and source production of substantially all of our toy and game products. The Company owns and operates manufacturing facilities in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland which predominantly produce games and puzzles. Sourcing of our other production is done through unrelated third party manufacturers in various Far East countries, principally China, using a Hong Kong based wholly-owned subsidiary operation for quality control and order coordination purposes. See “Manufacturing and Importing” below for more details concerning overseas manufacturing and sourcing.  

Other Information  

To further extend our range of products in the various segments of our business, we sell a portion of our toy and game products directly to retailers on a direct import basis from the Far East. These sales are reflected in the revenue of the related segment where the customer resides.  

Certain of our products are licensed to other companies for sale in selected countries where we do not otherwise have a direct business presence.  

During 2011, net revenues generated from TRANSFORMERS and BEYBLADE products were approximately $483,000 and $477,000, respectively, which were 11.3% and 11.1%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues for that year. During 2010, net revenues generated from NERF products were approximately $414,000, which was 10.3% of our consolidated net revenues for that year. During 2009, net revenues generated from TRANSFORMERS products were approximately $592,000, which was 14.5% of our consolidated net revenues in that year. No other line of products constituted 10% or more of our consolidated net revenues in 2011, 2010 or 2009.  

Working Capital Requirements  

Our working capital needs are primarily financed through cash generated from operations and, when necessary, proceeds from short-term borrowings. Our borrowings generally reach peak levels during the third or fourth quarter of each year. This corresponds to the time of year when our receivables also generally reach peak levels as part of the production and shipment of product in preparation for the holiday season. The strategy of retailers has generally been to make a higher percentage of their purchases of toy and game products within or close to the fourth quarter holiday consumer buying season, which includes Christmas. We expect that retailers will continue to follow this strategy. Our historical revenue pattern is one in which the second half of the year is more significant to our overall business than the first half. In 2011, the second half of the year accounted for approximately 63% of full year revenues with the third and fourth quarters accounting for 32% and 31% of full year revenues, respectively.  

The toy and game business is also characterized by customer order patterns which vary from year to year largely because of differences each year in the degree of consumer acceptance of product lines, product availability, marketing strategies and inventory policies of retailers, the dates of theatrical releases of major motion pictures for which we offer products, and changes in overall economic conditions. As a result, comparisons of our unshipped orders on any date with those at the same date in a prior year are not necessarily indicative of our sales for that year. Moreover, quick response inventory management practices result in fewer orders being placed significantly in advance of shipment and more orders being placed for immediate delivery. Recent trends have shown that retailers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. Although the Company may receive orders from customers in advance, it is a general industry practice that these orders are subject to amendment or cancellation by customers  

5  

Table of Contents 

 prior to shipment and, as such, the Company does not believe that these unshipped orders, at any given date, are indicative of future sales. The amount of unshipped orders at any date in a given year can also be affected by programs that we may employ to incent customers to place orders and accept shipments early in the year. These programs follow general industry practices. The types of programs that we plan to employ to promote sales in 2012 are substantially the same as those we employed in 2011.  

Historically, we commit to the majority of our inventory production and advertising and marketing expenditures for a given year prior to the peak third and fourth quarter retail selling season. Our accounts receivable increase during the third and fourth quarter as customers increase their purchases to meet expected consumer demand in the holiday season. Due to the concentrated timeframe of this selling period, payments for these accounts receivable are generally not due until later in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter of the subsequent year. The timing difference between expenses paid and revenues collected sometimes makes it necessary for us to borrow varying amounts during the year. During 2011, we utilized cash from our operations and borrowings under our commercial paper program and uncommitted lines of credit to meet our cash flow requirements.  

Royalties and Product Development  

Our success is dependent on continuous innovation in our entertainment offerings, including both the continuing development of new brands and products and the redesign of existing products to drive consumer interest and market acceptance. Our toy, game and puzzle products are developed by a global development group and the costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we incurred expenses of $197,638, $201,358 and $181,195, respectively, on activities relating to the development, design and engineering of new products and their packaging (including products brought to us by independent designers) and on the improvement or modification of ongoing products. Much of this work is performed by our internal staff of designers, artists, model makers and engineers.  

In addition to the design and development work performed by our own staff, we deal with a number of independent toy and game designers for whose designs and ideas we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Rights to such designs and ideas, when acquired by us, are usually exclusive and the agreements require us to pay the designer a royalty on our net sales of the item. These designer royalty agreements, in some cases, also provide for advance royalties and minimum guarantees.  

We also produce a number of toys and games under trademarks and copyrights utilizing the names or likenesses of characters from movies, television shows and other entertainment media, for whose rights we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Licensing fees for these rights are generally paid as a royalty on our net sales of the item. Licenses for the use of characters are generally exclusive for specific products or product lines in specified territories. In many instances, advance royalties and minimum guarantees are required by these license agreements.  

In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we incurred $339,217, $248,570 and $330,651, respectively, of royalty expense. Our royalty expense in any given year may vary depending upon the timing of movie releases and other entertainment media.  

Marketing and Sales  

As we are focused on re-imagining, re-inventing and re-igniting our many brands and imagining, inventing and igniting new brands, on a consistent global basis, we have a global marketing function which establishes brand direction and messaging, as well as assists the selling entities in establishing certain local marketing programs. The costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. Our products are sold globally to a broad spectrum of customers, including wholesalers, distributors, chain stores, discount stores, mail order houses, catalog stores, department stores and other traditional retailers, large and small, as well as internet-based “e-tailers.” Our own sales forces account for the majority of sales of our products. Remaining sales are generated by independent distributors who sell our products, for the most part, in areas of the world where we do not otherwise maintain a direct presence. While we have thousands of  

6  

Table of Contents 

 customers, there has been significant consolidation at the retail level over the last several years in our industry. As a result, the majority of our sales are to large chain stores, distributors and wholesalers. While the consolidation of customers provides us with certain benefits, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this consolidation also creates additional risks to our business associated with a major customer having financial difficulties or reducing its business with us. In addition, customer concentration may decrease the prices we are able to obtain for some of our products and reduce the number of products we would otherwise be able to bring to market. During 2011, net revenues from our three largest customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Target Corporation represented 20%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of consolidated net revenues, and sales to our top five customers, including Wal-Mart, Target and Toys “R” Us, Inc., accounted for approximately 45% of our consolidated net revenues. In the U.S. and Canada segment, approximately 68% of our net revenues were derived from these top three customers.  

We advertise many of our toy and game products extensively on television. Generally our advertising highlights selected items in our various product groups in a manner designed to promote the sale of not only the selected item, but also other items we offer in those product groups as well. In addition, Hasbro Studios produces television entertainment based primarily on our brands which appears on THE HUB in the U.S. and on other major networks internationally. We introduce many of our new products to major customers during the year prior to the year of introduction of such products for retail sale. In addition, we showcase certain of our new products in New York City at the time of the American International Toy Fair in February, as well as at other international toy shows. In 2011 we incurred $413,951 in expense related to advertising and promotion programs compared to $420,651 in 2010 and $412,580 in 2009. Certain entertainment-based products, such as products based on major motion pictures, do not require the same level of advertising that we spend on other products.  

Manufacturing and Importing  

During 2011 substantially all of our products were manufactured in third party facilities in the Far East, primarily China, as well as in our two owned facilities located in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland.  

Most of our products are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic, paper and cardboard, although certain products also make use of electronic components. All of these materials are readily available but may be subject to significant fluctuations in price. There are certain chemicals (including phthalates and BPA) that national, state and local governments have restricted or are seeking to restrict or limit the use of; however, we do not believe these restrictions have or will materially impact our business. We generally enter into agreements with suppliers at the beginning of a fiscal year that establish prices for that year. However, significant volatility in the prices of any of these materials may require renegotiation with our suppliers during the year. Our manufacturing processes and those of our vendors include injection molding, blow molding, spray painting, printing, box making and assembly. The countries of the Far East, and particularly China, constitute the largest manufacturing center of toys in the world and the substantial majority of our toy products are manufactured in China. The 1996 implementation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade reduced or eliminated customs duties on many of the products imported by us. We purchase most of our raw materials and component parts used in our owned manufacturing facilities from manufacturers in the United States and other certain countries.  

We believe that the manufacturing capacity of our third party manufacturers, together with our own facilities, as well as the supply of components, accessories and completed products which we purchase from unaffiliated manufacturers, are adequate to meet the anticipated demand in 2012 for our products. Our reliance on designated external sources of manufacturing could be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply for our products, should such changes be necessary or desirable. However, if we were to be prevented from obtaining products from a substantial number of our current Far East suppliers due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations and our ability to obtain products would be severely disrupted while alternative sources of product were secured and production shifted to those new sources. The imposition of trade sanctions by the United States or the European Union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of “normal trade relations” status with, China, or other factors which increase the cost of manufacturing  

7  

Table of Contents 

 in China, such as higher Chinese labor costs or an appreciation in the Chinese Yuan, could significantly disrupt our operations and/or significantly increase the cost of the products which are manufactured in China and imported into other markets.  

Competition  

We are a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and games and other entertainment offerings, but our business is highly competitive. We compete with several large toy and game companies in our product categories, as well as many smaller United States and international toy and game designers, manufacturers and marketers. We also compete with companies that offer branded entertainment focused on children and their families. Competition is based primarily on meeting consumer entertainment preferences and on the quality and play value of our products. To a lesser extent, competition is also based on product pricing. In entertainment, Hasbro Studios and THE HUB compete with other children’s television networks and entertainment producers, such as NICKELODEON and CARTOON NETWORK, for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution.  

In addition to contending with competition from other toy and game and branded play entertainment companies, in our business we must deal with the phenomenon that children are increasingly sophisticated and many children have been moving away from traditional toys and games at a younger age and the array of products and entertainment offerings competing for the attention of children has greatly expanded. We refer to this as “children getting older younger.” As a result, our products not only compete with the offerings of other toy and game manufacturers, but we must compete, particularly in meeting the demands of older children, with the entertainment offerings of many other companies, such as makers of video games and consumer electronic products.  

The volatility in consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment and low barriers to entry continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups to develop products that compete with our toy and game offerings.  

Employees  

At December 25, 2011, we employed approximately 5,900 persons worldwide, approximately 3,200 of whom were located in the United States.  

Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents  

We seek to protect our products, for the most part, and in as many countries as practical, through registered trademarks, copyrights and patents to the extent that such protection is available, cost effective, and meaningful. The loss of such rights concerning any particular product is unlikely to result in significant harm to our business, although the loss of such protection for a number of significant items might have such an effect.  

Government Regulation  

Our toy and game products sold in the United States are subject to the provisions of The Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, (as amended, the “CPSA”), The Federal Hazardous Substances Act (the “FHSA”), The Flammable Fabrics Act (the “FFA”), and the regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, certain of our products, such as the mixes for our EASY-BAKE ovens, are also subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration.  

The CPSA empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”) to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including the formulation and implementation of regulations and uniform safety standards. The CPSC has the authority to seek to declare a product “a banned hazardous substance” under the CPSA and to ban it from commerce. The CPSC can file an action to seize and condemn an “imminently hazardous consumer product” under the CPSA and may also order equitable remedies such as recall, replacement, repair or refund for the product. The FHSA provides for the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles that are banned.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in many international markets including Canada, Australia and Europe. We utilize laboratories that employ testing and other procedures intended to maintain compliance with the CPSA, the FHSA, the FFA, other applicable domestic and international product standards, and our own standards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that our products are or will be hazard free. Any material product recall or other safety issue impacting our product could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, depending on the product and scope of the recall, and could negatively affect sales of our other products as well.  

The Children’s Television Act of 1990 and the rules promulgated thereunder by the United States Federal Communications Commission, the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, as well as the laws of certain other countries, also place limitations on television commercials during children’s programming and on advertising in other forms to children.  

We maintain programs to comply with various United States federal, state, local and international requirements relating to the environment, plant safety and other matters.  

Financial Information about International and United States Operations  

The information required by this item is included in note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The following persons are the executive officers of the Company. Such executive officers are elected annually. The position(s) and office(s) listed below are the principal position(s) and office(s) held by such persons with the Company. The persons listed below generally also serve as officers and directors of certain of the Company’s various subsidiaries at the request and convenience of the Company.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Prior thereto, Chief Operating Officer from 2006 to 2008; prior thereto, President, U.S. Toys Segment from 2003 to 2006.  

 (2) Prior thereto, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer from 2008 to 2009; prior thereto, Executive Vice President, Finance and Global Operations and Chief Financial Officer from 2007 to 2008; prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2001 to 2007.  

 (3) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Head of Corporate Finance from 2008 to 2009; prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Controller from 2003 to 2008.  

 (4) Prior thereto, Chief Marketing Officer, U.S. Toy Group since 2004; prior thereto, General Manager, Big Kids Division, since 2002.  

 (5) Prior thereto, Vice President, Employment, Litigation and Compliance since 2006; prior thereto, Vice President, Employment and Litigation since 2001.  

9  

Table of Contents 

 (6) Mr. Frascotti joined the Company in January 2008. Prior thereto he was employed by Reebok International, Ltd., serving as Senior Vice President, New Business, Acquisitions and Licensing from 2002 to 2005, and as Senior Vice President, Sports Division from 2005 to 2008.  

Availability of Information  

Our internet address is http://www.hasbro.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available free of charge on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.