PART I  

 Item 1. Business.  

Introduction   

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world’s largest home improvement retailer based on Net Sales for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 (“fiscal 2009”). The Home Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement and lawn and garden products and provide a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 105,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal 2009, we had 2,244 The Home Depot stores located throughout the United States including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam (“U.S.”), Canada, China and Mexico.  

The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is (770) 433-8211.  

We maintain an Internet website at www.homedepot.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.  

We include our website addresses throughout this filing only as textual references. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

1  

Table of Contents 

Our Business  

Operating Strategy. In fiscal 2009, despite prolonged difficulties in the economy, we continued to focus on our core retail business, investing in our associates and stores and improving our customer service. This focus reflected a continuation of strategies implemented in the fiscal year ended February 1, 2009 (“fiscal 2008”), including the decision, announced in late January 2009, to close our EXPO Design Center, THD Design Center, Yardbirds and HD Bath businesses (the “Exited Businesses”). In fiscal 2009, we maintained our focus on maximizing the productivity of our existing store base. During the year, we continued to implement significant changes in our store operations to make them simpler, more consistent and more customer-focused. We shifted associate hours to be more customer facing, provided additional customer service and product knowledge training to our associates and refocused our efforts on offering every day values in the stores. Additionally, we continued to make strategic decisions intended to optimize our capital allocation, control expenses and create long-term value for our shareholders.  

Customers. The Home Depot stores serve three primary customer groups:  

   •    Do-It-Yourself (“D-I-Y”) Customers: These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations.  

   •    Do-It-For-Me (“D-I-F-M”) Customers: These customers are typically home owners who purchase materials themselves and hire third parties to complete the project or installation. We arrange for the installation of a variety of The Home Depot products through qualified independent contractors.  

   •    Professional Customers: These customers are professional remodelers, general contractors, repairmen, small business owners and tradesmen. In many stores, we offer a variety of programs to these customers, including delivery and will-call services, dedicated staff and expanded credit programs, all of which we believe increase sales to these customers.  

Products. A typical Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 products during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary items. The following table shows the percentage of Net Sales of each major product group (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2009, we reduced our inventory while improving our in-stock rate. We also reduced a number of one-time discount promotions and refocused our efforts on offering every day values. We continued to introduce innovative and distinctive products to our customers, including Thomasville® deep seating patio furniture, Behr Premium Plus Ultra® paint and primer in one, Charbroil®  infrared grills, RIDGID® pressure washers and Homelite® trimmers.  

To complement and enhance our product selection, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized brand names. During fiscal 2009, we offered a number of proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments including, but not limited to, Behr Premium Plus® paint, Hampton Bay® lighting, Vigoro® lawn care products, Husky® hand tools, RIDGID® and Ryobi® power tools and Glacier Bay® bath fixtures. We also announced our  

2  

Table of Contents 

 partnership with Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia to offer an exclusive Martha Stewart Living brand of home improvement products in select categories including outdoor living and paint. We may consider additional strategic alliances and relationships with other suppliers and will continue to assess opportunities to expand the range of products available under brand names that are exclusive to The Home Depot.  

From our Store Support Center we maintain a global sourcing merchandise program to source high-quality products directly from manufacturers around the world. Our merchant team identifies and purchases market leading innovative products directly for our stores. Additionally, we have three sourcing offices located in the Chinese cities of Shanghai, Shenzhen and Dalian, and offices in Gurgaon, India; Rome, Italy; Monterrey, Mexico and Toronto, Canada.  

Services. Our stores offer a variety of installation services. These services target D-I-F-M customers who select and purchase products and installation of those products from us. These installation programs include products such as carpeting, flooring, cabinets, countertops and water heaters. In addition, we provide professional installation of a number of products sold through our in-home sales programs, such as generators and furnace and central air systems.  

Store Growth.  

United States. At the end of fiscal 2009, we were operating 1,976 The Home Depot stores in the U.S., including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam. During fiscal 2009, we opened five new The Home Depot stores in the U.S.  

Canada. At the end of fiscal 2009, we were operating 179 The Home Depot stores in ten Canadian provinces. Of these stores, three were opened during fiscal 2009.  

Mexico. At the end of fiscal 2009, we were operating 79 The Home Depot stores in Mexico. Of these stores, five were opened during fiscal 2009.  

China. At the end of fiscal 2009, we were operating 10 The Home Depot stores in four Chinese cities.  

Net Sales for the Company outside of the U.S. were $7.0 billion for fiscal 2009 and were $7.4 billion for fiscal 2008 and 2007. Long-lived assets outside of the U.S. totaled $3.0 billion, $2.8 billion and $3.1 billion as of January 31, 2010, February 1, 2009 and February 3, 2008, respectively.  

Store Support Services  

Information Technologies. During fiscal 2009, we continued to make information technology investments to better support our customers and provide an improved overall shopping environment and experience. We invested in our supply chain and merchandising tools to improve inventory management capabilities and streamline our operations.  

With regard to our supply chain, in fiscal 2009 we continued implementation of our new warehouse management system and new transportation management system. We also made additional enhancements to our Central Automated Replenishment system.  

We provided additional tools and made improvements to existing tools utilized in merchandising systems in the areas of assortment management, forecasting and replenishment.  

With our continued focus on the stores, we provided additional technology improvements designed to help store associates perform their tasks and improve customer service. In fiscal 2009, we equipped 1,977 stores with new servers, 211 stores with new computers, registers and printers and 63 stores with new paint dispensers.  

Credit Services. We offer private label credit products in our stores through a third-party credit provider to professional, D-I-Y and D-I-F-M customers. In fiscal 2009, approximately 2.8 million new The Home Depot  

3  

Table of Contents 

 private label credit accounts were opened, and the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 12 million. Private label credit card sales accounted for approximately 25% of store sales in fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2008, Home Depot renegotiated and extended the term of the primary contracts governing the private label program. In fiscal 2009, we continued to benefit from our new contracts which established a ceiling for the cost of credit for the program while retaining the ability for portfolio performance improvements to lower the cost of credit.  

Logistics. We continued our supply chain transformation in fiscal 2009 to ensure product availability for customers, effective use of our investment in inventory and low total supply chain costs. Across our supply chain operations in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, we restructured our distribution center network to meet the changing needs of our business, including the Rapid Deployment Center (“RDC”) build-out in the U.S. and general distribution center space rationalization initiatives. RDCs allow for aggregation of store product needs to a single purchase order, and then rapid allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon arrival at the center. This process allows improved transportation, simplified order processing at suppliers and reduced lead time from the time that product needs at stores are determined to actual replenishment.  

As a result of the changes to our distribution network, in fiscal 2009 we added 5.2 million square feet of distribution center space, primarily for new RDCs, and closed other distribution center operations occupying approximately 2.4 million square feet, primarily as a result of eliminating conventional distribution center space in the U.S. At the end of fiscal 2009, we operated 30 lumber distribution centers, 36 conventional distribution centers and two transit facilities, all located in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Additionally in fiscal 2009, we opened seven new RDCs in the U.S., bringing our total number of RDCs to 12. We now serve approximately 1,250 of our U.S. stores from RDCs, which represents approximately 65% of our U.S. stores, and have onboarded approximately 35% of our costs of sales for those stores. We plan to open additional RDCs during fiscal 2010 and ultimately serve all of our U.S. stores from RDCs. We remain committed to our overall RDC roll-out strategy, supporting our goal of increasing our central distribution penetration.  

Associates. At the end of fiscal 2009, we employed approximately 317,000 associates, of whom approximately 19,000 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. Approximately 61% of our associates are employed on a full-time basis. We believe that our employee relations are very good. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve.  

Intellectual Property. Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot® trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business. We also maintain patent portfolios relating to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our products or business operations.  

Quality Assurance Program. We have both quality assurance and engineering resources that are dedicated to overseeing the quality of our directly imported, globally-sourced and proprietary products at the factory, product and packaging levels. Through these programs, we have established criteria for supplier and product performance that are designed to ensure that our products comply with federal, state and local safety, quality and performance standards and to allow us to measure and track the timeliness of shipments. We also have a Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Program designed to ensure that our suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility.  

Environmental, Health & Safety (“EH&S”). We are committed to maintaining a safe environment for our customers and associates and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do business. Our EH&S function in the field is directed by trained associates focused primarily on the execution of the EH&S programs. Additionally, we have a Store Support Center-based team of dedicated EH&S professionals who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Environmental. The Home Depot is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our business, including store construction and maintenance, energy usage, supply chain, product selection and delivery of product knowledge to our customers.  

In fiscal 2009, we spent approximately $22 million for energy efficiency-related projects and saved over 114 million kilowatt hours (kWh) compared to fiscal 2008, enough to power over 10,000 U.S. homes for one year. We continued to implement strict operational standards that establish energy efficient practices in all of our facilities. These include HVAC unit temperature regulation and adherence to strict lighting schedules, which are the largest sources of energy consumption in our stores, as well as utilizing the Novar Energy Management and Alarm System in each store to monitor energy efficiency. We estimate that by implementing and utilizing these energy saving programs, we have saved over 2.6 billion kWh since 2004, enough to power approximately 203,000 U.S. homes for one year. We have achieved a 16 percent reduction in kWh per square foot of energy consumption in our U.S. stores since 2004, and our goal is to achieve a 20 percent reduction in our U.S. stores by 2015, through our energy conservation initiatives. We have also partnered with the U.S. Green Building Council and have built seven Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (“LEED”) green certified and equivalent stores.  

Through our supply chain efficiencies created by the actions described above under “Logistics,” we are also targeting a 20 percent reduction in our domestic supply chain greenhouse gas emissions from 2008 to 2015, which would equate to annual fuel savings of approximately 25 million gallons or approximately 8,000 trips around the earth’s circumference. We received the 2009 Environmental Excellence Award from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency SmartWaySM Transport Partnership for our leadership in conserving energy and lowering greenhouse gas emission from our supply chain activities.  

As the world’s largest home improvement retailer, we are in a unique position to enable our customers to achieve energy savings through our products and services. Through our Eco OptionsSM Program introduced in 2007, we have created product categories that allow consumers to easily identify environmentally preferred product selections in our stores. Our Eco OptionsSM Program has certified approximately 4,000 products that meet specifications for energy efficiency, water conservation, healthy home, clean air and sustainable forestry. During 2009, we sold more than 90 million Energy Star® refrigerators, dishwashers, compact fluorescent light bulbs, programmable thermostats, water heaters and other products, which are capable of saving our customers approximately $740 million on their utility bills. We also sold more than six million WaterSense®-labeled bath faucets, aerators and toilets, giving our customers the potential to save at least 1.8 billion gallons of water. In 2009, we also upgraded our Eco OptionsSM page on our website, which offers consumer education on environmental impacts of various products as well as identifying easy “green” D-I-Y projects. This online experience, coupled with our D-I-Y in-store how-to clinics on “green” projects and our continual enhancement of our Eco OptionsSM product categories, helps us to meet a growing customer demand for environmentally responsible and cost-saving products and projects.  

We continue to offer our nationwide, in-store compact fluorescent light bulb recycling program launched in June 2008. This service is offered to customers free of charge and is available in all U.S. stores. We also maintain an in-store rechargeable battery recycling program. Launched in 2001 in partnership with the Rechargeable Battery Recycling Corporation, this program is also available to customers free of charge in all U.S. and Canada stores.  

Seasonality. Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter.  

Competition. Our business is highly competitive, based primarily on customer service, price, store location and assortment of merchandise. In each of the markets we serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and, to a lesser  

5  

Table of Contents 

extent, other retailers. Due to the variety of competition we face, we are unable to precisely measure the impact on our sales by our competitors.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.