Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The Company’s primary market risk exposures are interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The following table presents the Company’s aggregate fixed rate and variable rate domestic and foreign debt obligations outstanding, including fair market value adjustments and unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2015, with corresponding weighted-average interest rates sorted by maturity date. The table does not include extension options where available. The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is the Company’s reporting currency. The instruments’ actual cash flows are denominated in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars (CAD) as indicated by geographic description (amounts are USD equivalent in millions). 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on the Company’s variable-rate debt balances, interest expense would have increased by $6.8 million in 2015 if short-term interest rates were 1.0% higher. 

The following table presents the Company’s foreign investments and respective cumulative translation adjustment (“CTA”) as of December 31, 2015. Investment amounts are shown in their respective local currencies and the U.S. dollar equivalents and CTA balances are shown in U.S. dollars: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The foreign currency exchange risk has been partially mitigated, but not eliminated, through the use of local currency denominated debt. The Company has not, and does not plan to, enter into any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 

Currency fluctuations between local currency and the U.S. dollar during the period in which the Company held its investment result in a CTA, which is recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The CTA amounts are subject to future changes resulting from ongoing fluctuations in the respective foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in exchange rates are impacted by many factors that cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy. Any change could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on the Company’s CTA balance. The Company’s aggregate CTA net gain balance at December 31, 2015, is $6.6 million.  

33 

 Table Of Contents 

Under U.S. GAAP, the Company is required to release CTA balances into earnings when the Company has substantially liquidated its investment in a foreign entity. During 2015, the Company sold its remaining property in Chile. As a result of liquidating its investments in Chile, the Company recognized a loss from foreign currency translation in the aggregate amount of $18.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2015.  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data