Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Deteriorating Economic Conditions and Heightened Uncertainty in the Financial Markets are Affecting Consumer Confidence, which is Currently Adversely Impacting our Business and We Expect These Conditions to Continue  

 The foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and the foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. The deteriorating economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in the financial markets continue to negatively affect consumer confidence and discretionary spending. This has led to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food prepared away from home. These conditions have, in turn, negatively impacted our sales, as noted by our declining sequential sales trend each quarter from a positive 8.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 to a negative 6.6% in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, and have also negatively impacted our operating results for fiscal 2009. If these conditions do not improve, there will continue to be a negative impact on our operating results.  

Increases in Fuel Costs and Inflation Affect our Costs and We May Not Be Able to Compensate for Increases in Such Costs  

 Volatile fuel prices and food costs have affected our industry during fiscal 2009. The cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. Although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers, there is no guarantee that we can do so again if another period of high fuel costs occurs. In addition, prolonged periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on such product cost increases. Our estimate for the inflation in Sysco’s cost of goods was 4.7% in fiscal 2009, compared to 6.0% in fiscal 2008 and 3.4% in fiscal 2007. If fuel costs and product costs increase again in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability.  

Conditions Beyond our Control can Interrupt our Supplies and Increase our Product Costs  

 We obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third party suppliers. For the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. We are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. These conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, weather, crop conditions, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors.  

We Need Access to Borrowed Funds in Order to Grow and Any Default by Us Under our Indebtedness Could Have a Material Adverse Impact  

 Because a substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion, our continued growth depends, in large part, on our ability to continue this expansion. As a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. Moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock.  

Product Liability Claims Could Materially Impact our Business  

 We, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by Sysco causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. However, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If Sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share.  

5   
Adverse Publicity about us or Lack of Confidence in our Products Could Negatively Impact our Reputation and Reduce Earnings  

 Maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling Sysco Brand products. Anything that damages that reputation or the public’s confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products, could quickly affect our revenues and profits. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella, and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public’s confidence in our products. If patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, such as flu epidemics or other pandemics, even those unrelated to the use of Sysco products, or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically.  

Failure to Successfully Renegotiate Union Contracts Could Result in Work Stoppages  

 As of June 27, 2009, approximately 8,400 employees at 54 operating companies were members of 57 different local unions associated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and other labor organizations. In fiscal 2010, 15 agreements covering approximately 1,900 employees have expired or will expire. Since June 27, 2009, three contracts covering 440 of the 1,900 employees have been renegotiated. Failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. Although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us.  

A Shortage of Qualified Labor Could Negatively Impact our Business and Materially Reduce Earnings  

 Our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. Our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. Any such shortage would decrease Sysco’s ability to effectively serve our customers. Such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings.  

Our Funding Obligations with Respect to our Company-Sponsored Qualified Pension Plan may Increase Should Financial Markets Experience Further Declines  

 Our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. The amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the plan’s assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability. As a result of the decline in the financial markets in fiscal 2009, the value of the investments held by the Retirement Plan declined through June 27, 2009 as compared to June 28, 2008. These fluctuations in asset values have caused anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase, have caused pension expense for fiscal 2010 to increase and have resulted in a reduction in our shareholders’ equity as of June 27, 2009, which is when this plan’s funded status was last measured. Also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. Specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent financial markets experience further declines, our future contributions, pension expense and funded status may be negatively affected for future years which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations.  

We may be Required to Pay Material Amounts Under Multi-Employer Defined Benefit Pension Plans  

 We contribute to several multi-employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. Approximately 12% of our current employees are participants in such multi-employer plans. In fiscal 2009, our total contributions to these plans, which include payments for voluntary withdrawals, were approximately $47,982,000.  

 We do not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees, half of whom are appointed by the unions and the other half by other contributing employers to the plan. Based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. In addition, the Pension Protection Act, enacted in August 2006, requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. As a result, we expect our required contributions to these plans to increase in the future.  

 Under current law regarding multi-employer defined benefit plans, a plan’s termination, our voluntary withdrawal, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multi-employer defined benefit plan would require us to  

6   
make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the multi-employer plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. Based on the information currently available from plan administrators, we estimate that our share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on most of the multi-employer plans we participate in, some of which appear to be underfunded, could be as much as $80,000,000 as of June 27, 2009 based on a voluntary withdrawal. Because the company is not provided with the information by plan administrators on a timely basis and the company expects that many multi-employer pension plans’ assets have declined due to recent financial market performance, we believe our share of the withdrawal liability could be greater. In addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS} may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund. As of June 27, 2009, we had approximately $17,000,000 in liabilities recorded in total related to certain multi-employer defined benefit plans for which our voluntary withdrawal has already occurred, all of which are expected to be paid during fiscal 2010. Requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability, and excise taxes could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations.  

Product Cost Deflation May Adversely Impact Future Operations  

 Our business may be adversely impacted by periods of prolonged product cost deflation. We make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage markup. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant.  

We Must Finance and Integrate Acquired Businesses Effectively  

 Historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may decrease. Integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from Sysco’s. A significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. Significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments.  

Expanding into International Markets Presents Unique Challenges, and our Expansion Efforts and International Operations may not be Successful  

 In addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes expansion of operations into new international markets. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations.  

Our Preferred Stock Provides Anti-Takeover Benefits that may not be Viewed as Beneficial to Stockholders  

 Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Sysco’s Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire Sysco without approval of the Board of Directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. In addition, if anyone attempts to acquire Sysco without approval of the Board of Directors of Sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the Board of Directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. As a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of Sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred.  

Technology Dependence Could have a Material Negative Impact on our Business  

 Our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. We use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. Any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs. While Sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits.  

7   
Our Design of an Enterprise-wide Software Integration Project may not be Implemented and in the Event of Implementation may Negatively Impact our Business, Results of Operations and Liquidity  

 We commenced the design of an enterprise-wide project to implement an integrated software system to support a majority of our business processes. These systems are commonly referred to as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems. When we have completed the design phase of this project, which we anticipate to occur by the end of calendar 2009, a decision will be made as to whether to build the system as designed and if so, the timing of implementation. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. ERP implementations typically require transformation of business and financial processes in order to realize the benefits of the project. When the design phase is complete, if we reach a decision to discontinue the project, amounts invested will be written off which may negatively impact our results of operations at that time. If we reach a decision to continue with the project, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems and/or cost overages during the ERP implementation process. In addition, because the implementation is expected to involve a significant capital commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not result in the benefits that we anticipate.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

 None.  

8   
Item 2. Properties