PART I

Item 1.Business. 

Throughout this report “Mattel” refers to Mattel, Inc. and/or one or more of its family of companies. Mattel designs, manufactures, and markets a broad variety of toy products worldwide which are sold to its customers and directly to consumers. Mattel is a creations company that inspires the wonder of childhood. Mattel’s objectives are to grow its share in the marketplace, continue to improve its operating margins, and create long-term stockholder value. To achieve these objectives, management has established the following strategies:

First, Mattel is focused on embracing brand building, creativity, and innovation, and management will put a premium on speed and personal accountability. Management is focused on putting Mattel back on track for growth and improved profitability.

Additionally, Mattel is organizing around the following five strategic priorities:

•Build powerful brand franchises;

•Establish Toy Box as the partner of choice;

•Develop unmatched commercial excellence;

•Drive continuous cost improvement; and

•Build emerging market leadership.

Mattel believes its products are among the most widely recognized toy products in the world. Mattel’s portfolio of brands and products are grouped into four major brand categories.

Mattel Girls & Boys Brands—including Barbie® fashion dolls and accessories (“Barbie”), Monster High®, Ever After High®, Polly Pocket®, and DC Super Hero Girls™ (collectively “Other Girls”), Hot Wheels® and Matchbox® vehicles and play sets (collectively “Wheels”), and CARS®, DC Comics®, WWE® Wrestling, Minecraft®, Max Steel®, BOOMco.®, Toy Story®, and games and puzzles (collectively “Entertainment”).

Fisher-Price Brands—including Fisher-Price®, Little People®, BabyGear™, Laugh & Learn®, and Imaginext® (collectively “Core Fisher-Price”), Thomas & Friends®, Dora the Explorer®, Mickey Mouse® Clubhouse, and Disney Jake and the Never Land Pirates® (collectively “Fisher-Price Friends”), and Power Wheels®.

American Girl Brands—including Truly Me®, Girl of the Year®, BeForever®, Bitty Baby®, and WellieWishers™. American Girl® Brands products are sold directly to consumers via its catalog, website, and proprietary retail stores, as well as sold directly to certain retailers. 

Construction and Arts & Crafts Brands—including MEGA BLOKS® and RoseArt®.

Mattel, Inc. was incorporated in California in 1948 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1968. Its executive offices are located at 333 Continental Blvd., El Segundo, California 90245-5012, telephone number (310) 252-2000.

Business Segments

Mattel’s operating segments are separately managed business units, consisting of: (i) North America, which consists of the US and Canada, (ii) International, and (iii) American Girl. The North America and International segments sell products in the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands, Fisher-Price Brands, and Construction and Arts & Crafts Brands categories, although some products are developed and adapted for particular international markets.

For additional information on Mattel’s segment reporting, including revenues and segment income, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.” For additional information regarding segment assets and geographic areas, see Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.” For additional information regarding revenues by brand category, see Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”

For a discussion of the risks inherent in the foreign operations of Mattel, which affect each segment, see Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

3

North America Segment

The North America segment markets and sells toys in the US and Canada through the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands, Fisher-Price Brands, and Construction and Arts & Crafts Brands categories.

In the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands category, Barbie includes Barbie fashion dolls and accessories. Other Girls includes Monster High, Ever After High, Little Mommy®, and Polly Pocket. Wheels includes Hot Wheels and Matchbox vehicles and play sets. Entertainment includes key licensing partnerships with The Walt Disney Company, Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., NBCUniversal Media, LLC, and WWE, as well as owned brands and products, including games and puzzles.

Barbie continues to evolve the “You Can Be Anything”™ campaign by highlighting role models throughout 2017, beginning with Dads in the spring. Technology and connectivity will continue to be infused into new Barbie products for the holiday season and will feature new products to support Barbie's animated content including, Barbie: Video Game Hero™, Barbie Dreamtopia™, and Barbie: Dreamhouse Adventures™. 

In 2017, Hot Wheels will introduce new track sets, designed cars, and a new digital gaming experience. The new Hot Wheels Track Builder™ sets will include building bricks in their construction compatible sets. Additionally, Hot Wheels will continue to partner with the best in the automotive and entertainment world, including Star Wars®, DC Comics, and Marvel®.

Mattel’s Toy Box will continue to focus on bringing products to the global marketplace with speed and innovation. Toy Box will continue to partner with leading entertainment companies such as Disney, Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., Nickelodeon®, NBCUniversal Media, LLC, and WWE. Key product lines based on entertainment franchises for 2017 include Disney Pixar's Cars 3, Warner Bros.'s Justice League® and Wonder Woman®, Nickelodeon's Shimmer & Shine™, and Universal’s Fast & Furious™. 

The Fisher-Price Brands category includes Fisher-Price BabyGear, Laugh & Learn, Little People, Think & Learn™, Imaginext, Thomas & Friends, Dora & Friends™, Blaze and The Monster Machines®, Shimmer and Shine, Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, Minnie Mouse, Octonauts®, and Power Wheels.

In 2017, Fisher-Price will introduce the next phase of the Best Possible Start campaign, with the core message that parental love and play is the best possible start for child development. With the addition of Jonathan Adler as the Creative Director of Fisher-Price brands, existing and new product lines to be launched in 2017 will have a contemporary design catering to millennial parents. Fisher-Price will introduce simple sleep solutions, including the Revolve Swing, which features a natural soothing motion. For infants, Fisher-Price is debuting the new Laugh & Learn First Words line focused on early language development by exposing babies to their first 100 words. Additionally, the Little People brand will evolve in 2017 by integrating emotional intelligence traits, including sharing, caring, and helping others. The Think & Learn preschool learning line will continue to keep the minds and bodies of preschoolers active with the Think & Learn Smart Cycle® and Teach ‘n Tag Movi™ products. Thomas & Friends will also introduce its first global brand campaign, Set Friendship in Motion™, while releasing the Thomas & Friends Super Station™ playset, designed to work with all Thomas & Friends engines.

The Construction and Arts & Crafts Brands category includes MEGA BLOKS, RoseArt, and Board Dudes®.

In 2017, MEGA BLOKS will continue to expand its line of building sets. With its articulated micro figures, build-to-play features, and authentic details, kids and collectors will be invited to Build Beyond™ with Mega Construx™. New Halo® construction sets will be released leading up to the highly-anticipated launch of the Halo Wars 2 video game. Wellie Wishers from American Girl, Thomas & Friends, Pokémon™, and Shimmer & Shine will be introduced to the MEGA BLOCKS lineup, which includes Despicable Me®, Destiny®, and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles®. Parents and preschoolers who love to build with the MEGA BLOKS Big Building Bag and Block Scooping Wagon can also add the all-new Elephant Parade to their building basics collection this Fall. 

International Segment

Products marketed by the International segment are generally the same as those developed and marketed by the North America segment, although some are developed or adapted for particular international markets. Mattel’s products are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence.

4

Mattel’s International segment revenue represented 40% of worldwide consolidated gross sales in 2016. Within the International segment, Mattel operates in three regional groups that generated the following gross sales during 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

No individual country within the International segment exceeded 6% of worldwide consolidated gross sales during 2016.

The strength of the US dollar relative to other currencies can significantly affect the revenues and profitability of Mattel’s international operations. Mattel enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies, to limit the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on its results of operations and cash flows. See Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Derivative Instruments.” For financial information by geographic area, see Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”

American Girl Segment

The American Girl segment is a direct marketer, children’s publisher, and retailer best known for its BeForever flagship line of historical dolls, books, and accessories, as well as the Truly Me, Girl of the Year, Bitty Baby, and WellieWishers brands. American Girl also publishes best-selling fiction and non-fiction titles, plus the award-winning American Girl® magazine. The American Girl segment sells products directly to consumers via its catalog, website, in its proprietary retail stores in the US, and at select retailers nationwide, as well as in specialty boutiques at select Indigo™ and Chapters™ stores in Canada and El Palacio de Hierro locations in Mexico City. 

In January 2017, American Girl introduced Gabriela McBride™, the new Girl of the Year. American Girl will also introduce a new series of contemporary characters and stories in 2017. The first two new characters launched in February, which also included American Girl’s first boy doll. The third new character will debut in late April and will come to life by means of an Amazon Original Special. During the summer of 2017, American Girl will feature more personalized customization options within its Truly Me line, and add a new historical character from 1940's Hawaii.

Manufacturing and Materials

Mattel manufactures toy products for all segments in both company-owned facilities and through third-party manufacturers. Products are also purchased from unrelated entities that design, develop, and manufacture those products. To provide greater flexibility in the manufacture and delivery of its products, and as part of a continuing effort to reduce manufacturing costs, Mattel has concentrated production of most of its core products in company-owned facilities and generally uses third-party manufacturers for the production of non-core products.

Mattel’s principal manufacturing facilities are located in Canada, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, and Thailand. To help avoid disruption of its product supply due to political instability, civil unrest, economic instability, changes in government policies or regulations, and other risks, Mattel produces its products in multiple facilities across multiple countries. Mattel believes that the existing production capacity at its own and its third-party manufacturers’ facilities is sufficient to handle expected volume in the foreseeable future. See Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in a lack of product availability or excess inventory in a particular product line.

The majority of Mattel’s raw materials are available from numerous suppliers but may be subject to fluctuations in price.

5

Competition and Industry Background

Mattel is a worldwide leader in the manufacture, marketing, and sale of toys, games, and other products related to learning and development. Competition in the toy industry is based primarily on quality, play value, brands, and price. Mattel offers a diverse range of products for children of all ages and families that include, among others, toys for infants and preschoolers, girls’ toys, boys’ toys, youth electronics, hand-held and other games, puzzles, educational toys, technology-related products, media-driven products, and fashion-related toys. The North America segment competes with several large toy companies, including Hasbro, Jakks Pacific, Just Play Products, Lego, MGA Entertainment, Moose Toys, Spin Master, and VTech, many smaller toy companies, and manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. The International segment competes with global toy companies including Famosa, Giochi Preziosi, Hasbro, Lego, MGA Entertainment, Playmobil, Ravensburger, Simba, Spin Master, and VTech, other national and regional toy companies, and manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. Foreign regions may include competitors that are strong in a particular toy line or geographical area but do not compete with Mattel or other international toy companies worldwide. The American Girl segment competes with companies that manufacture girls’ toys and with children’s book publishers and retailers. 

Competition among the above companies is intensifying due to trends towards shorter life cycles for individual toy products and an increasing use of high technology in toys. In addition, as a result of the phenomenon of “children getting older younger” resulting from children outgrowing toys at younger ages, Mattel competes with companies that sell products outside the toy aisle, such as electronic consumer products and video games. Competition continues to be heavily influenced by the fact that a small number of retailers account for a large portion of all toy sales, allocate the shelf space from which toys are viewed, and have direct contact with parents and children through in-store purchases, coupons, and print advertisements. Such retailers can and do promote their own private-label toys, facilitate the sale of competitors’ toys, and allocate shelf space to one type of toy over another. Competition is also intensifying due to the availability of online-only distributors, including Amazon.com, which are able to promote a wide variety of toys and represent a wide variety of toy manufacturers, and, with limited overhead, do so at a lower cost.

Seasonality

Mattel’s business is highly seasonal, with consumers making a large percentage of all toy purchases during the traditional holiday season. A significant portion of Mattel’s customers’ purchasing occurs in the third and fourth quarters of Mattel’s fiscal year in anticipation of holiday buying. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times create risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of less popular toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers have also been attempting to manage their inventories more tightly in recent years, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase the risk that Mattel may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times or that Mattel’s own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed. Additionally, as retailers manage their inventories, Mattel experiences cyclical ordering patterns for products and product lines that may cause its sales to vary significantly from period to period.

In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three quarters of its fiscal year. Seasonal shipping patterns result in significant peaks in the third and fourth quarters in the respective levels of inventories and accounts receivable, which result in seasonal working capital financing requirements. See Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt.”

Product Design and Development

Through its product design and development group, Mattel regularly refreshes, redesigns, and extends existing toy product lines and develops innovative new toy product lines for all segments. Mattel believes its success is dependent on its ability to continue these activities effectively. See Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Product design and development activities are principally conducted by a group of professional designers and engineers employed by Mattel. During 2016, 2015, and 2014, Mattel incurred expenses of $215.3 million, $217.8 million, and $209.5 million, respectively, in connection with the design and development of products, exclusive of royalty payments. See Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Supplemental Financial Information.”

Additionally, independent toy designers and developers bring concepts and products to Mattel and are generally paid a royalty on the net selling price of products licensed to Mattel. These independent toy designers may also create different products for other toy companies.

6

Advertising and Marketing

Mattel supports its product lines with extensive advertising and consumer promotions. Advertising takes place at varying levels throughout the year and peaks during the traditional holiday season. Advertising includes television and radio commercials, magazine, newspaper, and internet advertisements, and social media. Promotions include in-store displays, sweepstakes, merchandising materials, major events focusing on products, and tie-ins with various consumer products companies.

During 2016, 2015, and 2014, Mattel incurred expenses of $634.9 million (11.6% of net sales), $717.9 million (12.6% of net sales), and $733.2 million (12.2% of net sales), respectively, for advertising and promotion.

Sales

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the North America segment are sold directly to retailers, including discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets, and, to a limited extent, wholesalers. Mattel also operates several small retail outlets, generally near or at its corporate headquarters and distribution centers as a service to its employees and as an outlet for its products. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence. Mattel also has retail outlets in Latin America and Europe that serve as outlets for its products. American Girl products and its children's publications are sold directly to consumers and select retailers nationwide. Mattel has 20 American Girl retail stores: American Girl Place in Chicago, Illinois, Los Angeles, California, and New York, New York, and American Girl stores in Alpharetta, Georgia, Bloomington, Minnesota, Charlotte, North Carolina, Chesterfield, Missouri, Columbus, Ohio, Dallas, Texas, Houston, Texas, Lone Tree, Colorado, Lynnwood, Washington, McLean, Virginia, Miami, Florida, Nashville, Tennessee, Natick, Massachusetts, Orlando, Florida, Overland Park, Kansas, Palo Alto, California, and Scottsdale, Arizona, each of which features children’s products from the American Girl segment. Additionally, Mattel sells certain of its products online through websites of one or more of its subsidiaries.

During 2016, Mattel’s three largest customers (Wal-Mart at $1.1 billion, Toys “R” Us at $0.6 billion, and Target at $0.4 billion) accounted for approximately 39% of worldwide consolidated net sales. Within countries in the International segment, there is also a concentration of sales to certain large customers that do not operate in the US, none of which exceed 10% of net sales. The customers and the degree of concentration vary depending upon the region or nation. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”

Licenses and Distribution Agreements

Mattel has license agreements with third parties that permit Mattel to utilize the trademark, characters, or inventions of the licensor in products that Mattel sells. A number of these licenses relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations.

Mattel has entered into agreements to license entertainment properties from, among others, Disney Enterprises, Inc. (including Disney characters such as Star Wars, Mickey Mouse, Jake and the Never Land Pirates, Disney Planes™, CARS and Toy Story from Pixar, and certain Disney films and television properties), NBCUniversal Media, LLC (including the Fast & Furious and Jurassic World® franchises), Viacom International, Inc. relating to its Nickelodeon properties (including Dora the Explorer, Blaze and the Monster Machines, and SpongeBob SquarePants®), Warner Bros. Consumer Products (including Batman®, Superman®, Wonder Woman, Justice League, and DC Super Hero Girls), Microsoft (including Halo), Mojang (including Minecraft), and WWE Wrestling.

Royalty expense for 2016, 2015, and 2014 was $228.9 million, $264.6 million, and $242.4 million, respectively. See “Commitments” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies."

Mattel’s license agreement with Disney Enterprises, Inc. for the global rights to produce and sell toys based on Disney Princess® characters expired at the end of 2015 and was not renewed. Gross sales of Disney Princess products were $455.6 million in 2015. However, Mattel's license of CARS 3 and Toy Story 4 were renewed in 2016, with theatrical releases in 2017 and 2019, respectively.

Mattel also licenses a number of its trademarks and other property rights to others for use in connection with the sale of their products. Mattel distributes some third-party finished products that are independently designed and manufactured.

7

Trademarks, Copyrights, and Patents

Most of Mattel’s products are sold under trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, and a number of these products incorporate patented devices or designs. Trademarks, copyrights, and patents are significant assets of Mattel in that they provide product recognition and acceptance worldwide.

Mattel customarily seeks trademark, copyright, and patent protection covering its products, and it owns or has applications pending for US and foreign trademarks, copyrights, and patents covering many of its products. Although a number of these trademarks, copyrights, and patents relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations, Mattel does not believe it is dependent on a single trademark, copyright or patent. Mattel believes its rights to these properties are adequately protected, but there can be no assurance that its rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged.

Commitments

In the normal course of business, Mattel enters into contractual arrangements for future purchases of goods and services to ensure availability and timely delivery and to obtain and protect Mattel’s right to create and market certain products. Certain of these commitments routinely contain provisions for guarantees or minimum expenditures during the term of the contracts. Current and future commitments for guaranteed payments reflect Mattel’s focus on expanding its product lines through alliances with businesses in other industries. Additionally, Mattel routinely enters into noncancelable lease agreements for premises and equipment used in the normal course of business.

Agreements to purchase inventory, services, and other items with terms extending through 2021 contain future minimum payments totaling approximately $445 million. Licensing and similar agreements with terms extending through 2021 and beyond contain provisions for future guaranteed minimum payments totaling approximately $392 million. Operating lease commitments with terms extending through 2021 and beyond contain future minimum obligations totaling approximately $620 million. See Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Commitments” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies.”

Backlog

Mattel ships products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by its customers, which usually request delivery within three months. In the toy industry, orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment. In recent years, a trend toward just-in-time inventory practices in the toy industry has resulted in fewer advance orders and therefore less backlog of orders. Mattel believes that the amount of backlog orders at any given time may not accurately indicate future sales.

Financial Instruments

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may impact Mattel’s results of operations and cash flows. Mattel seeks to mitigate its exposure to foreign exchange risk by monitoring its foreign currency transaction exposure for the year and partially hedging such exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts generally have maturity dates of up to 18 months. In addition, Mattel manages its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through the selection of currencies used for international borrowings. Mattel does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.

For additional information regarding foreign currency contracts, see “International Segment” above, Part II, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Derivative Instruments.”

Seasonal Financing

See Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt.”

Government Regulations and Environmental Quality

Mattel’s products sold in the US are subject to the provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, and may also be subject to the requirements of the Flammable Fabrics Act or the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act and the regulations promulgated pursuant to such statutes. These statutes and the related regulations ban from 

8

the market consumer products that fail to comply with applicable product safety laws, regulations, and standards. The Consumer Product Safety Commission may require the recall, repurchase, replacement, or repair of any such banned products or products that otherwise create a substantial risk of injury and may seek penalties for regulatory noncompliance under certain circumstances. Similar laws exist in some US states. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these federal and state laws and regulations.

Mattel’s products sold worldwide are subject to the provisions of similar laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, including the European Union and Canada. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.

Mattel maintains a quality control program to help ensure compliance with applicable product safety requirements. Nonetheless, Mattel has experienced, and may in the future experience, issues in products that result in recalls, withdrawals, or replacements of products. A product recall could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s results of operations and financial condition, depending on the product affected by the recall and the extent of the recall efforts required. A product recall could also negatively affect Mattel’s reputation and the sales of other Mattel products. See Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

Mattel’s advertising is subject to the Federal Trade Commission Act, The Children’s Television Act of 1990, the rules and regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, and the Federal Communications Commission, as well as laws of certain countries that regulate advertising and advertising to children. In addition, Mattel’s web-based products and services and other online and digital communications activity are or may be subject to US and foreign privacy-related regulations, including the US Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 and the EU Data Protection Directive (Directive 95/46/EC) and related national regulations. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.

Mattel’s worldwide operations are subject to the requirements of various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where those operations are located. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with those laws and regulations. Mattel’s operations are from time to time the subject of investigations, conferences, discussions, and negotiations with various federal, state and local environmental agencies within and outside the US with respect to the discharge or cleanup of hazardous waste. Mattel is not aware of any material cleanup liabilities.

Mattel is subject to various other federal, state, local and international laws and regulations applicable to its business. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.

Employees

The total number of persons employed by Mattel and its subsidiaries at any one time varies because of the seasonal nature of its manufacturing operations. As of December 31, 2016, Mattel’s total number of employees was approximately 32,000.

Research and Development

See “Design and Development” in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Supplemental Financial Information.”

Available Information 

Mattel files its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that Mattel files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. 

Mattel’s Internet website address is http://corporate.mattel.com. Mattel makes available on its Internet website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. 

9

Item 1A.Risk Factors.