Item 1A—Risk Factors 

 Risks Relating to our Business and the Insurance Industry  

This section describes material risks affecting the Group's business. These risks could materially affect the Group's business, its revenues, operating income, net income, net assets, liquidity and capital resources and ability to achieve its financial targets and, accordingly should be read in conjunction with any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Competitive Risks  

 Our business may be adversely affected by an overall decline in economic activity.  

Our business and operating results are materially affected by worldwide economic conditions. Current global economic conditions including the current credit crisis coupled with declining customer and business confidence, increasing energy prices, and other challenges, may have a significant negative impact on the buying behavior of some of our clients as their businesses suffer from these conditions. In particular, financial institutions, construction, aviation, and logistics businesses such as marine cargo are most likely to be affected. Further, the global economic downturn is also negatively affecting some of the international economies that have supported the strong growth in our International operations. Our employee benefits practice may also be adversely affected as businesses continue to downsize during this period of economic turmoil. In addition, a growing number of insolvencies associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. While it is difficult to predict consequences of any further deterioration in global economic conditions on our business, any significant reduction or delay by our clients in purchasing insurance or making payment of premiums could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.   

 We do not control the premiums on which our commissions are based, and volatility or declines in premiums may seriously undermine our profitability.  

We derive most of our revenues from commissions and fees for brokerage and consulting services. We do not determine insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions. From the late 1980s through late 2000, insurance premium rates generally declined as a result of a number of factors, including the expanded underwriting capacity of insurance carriers; consolidation of both insurance intermediaries and insurance carriers; and increased competition among insurance carriers. During 2004, we saw a rapid transition from a "hard" market, with premium rates stable or increasing, to a "soft" market, with premium rates falling in most markets. Rates continued to decline in most sectors through 2005 and 2006, with the exception of catastrophe-exposed markets. In 2007, the market softened further with decreases in many of the market sectors in which we operated and this has continued into 2008 with further declines of between 5 and 15 percent in many territories.  

In addition, as traditional risk-bearing insurance carriers continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to non-affiliated agents or brokers such as ourselves, those insurance carriers may seek to reduce further their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to those insurance agents or brokers. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly undermine our profitability.  

 Competition in our industry is intense, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose market share and our business may be materially adversely affected.  

We face competition in all fields in which we operate, based on global capability, product breadth, innovation, quality of service and price. We compete with Marsh & McLennan and Aon, the two other providers of global risk   

13 

management services, as well as with numerous specialist, regional and local firms. Although Marsh & McLennan and Aon, along with us, have agreed to implement certain business reforms, many specialist, regional and local firms have not agreed to these business reforms. These firms are continuing to accept contingent compensation and are not disclosing the compensation received in connection with providing policy placement services to the customer. If we are unable to compete effectively against these competitors, we will suffer lower revenue, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. As a result of our acquisition of HRH, we must phase out the contingent compensation payable to HRH over 3 years. We are currently seeking to increase revenue through higher commissions and fees that we disclose to our clients, and to generate profitable revenue growth by focusing on the provision of value-added risk advisory services beyond traditional brokerage activities. We cannot be certain that such steps will generate the profitable revenue growth we are targeting.  

Competition for business is intense in all our business lines and in every insurance market, and the other two providers of global risk management services have substantially greater market share than we do. Competition on premium rates has also exacerbated the pressures caused by a continuing reduction in demand in some classes of business. For example, rather than purchase additional insurance through brokers, many insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously. Industrial and commercial companies have been increasingly relying upon their own subsidiary insurance companies, known as captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than buying insurance. Additional competitive pressures arise from the entry of new market participants, such as banks, accounting firms and insurance carriers themselves, offering risk management or transfer services.   

 Dependence on Key Personnel—The loss of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or a number of our senior management or a significant number of our brokers could significantly impede our financial plans, growth, marketing and other objectives.  

The loss of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or a number of our senior management or a significant number of our brokers could significantly impede our financial plans, growth, marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph J. Plumeri and other members of our senior management, but also on the individual brokers and teams that service our clients and maintain client relationships. The insurance and reinsurance brokerage industry has in the past experienced intense competition for the services of leading individual brokers and brokerage teams, and we have lost key individuals and teams to competitors. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled and qualified personnel and to expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not continue to be successful in doing so because the competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense.  

 Legal and Regulatory Risks  

 We are subject to insurance industry regulation worldwide. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we may not be able to conduct our business.  

Many of our activities are subject to regulatory supervision in virtually all the countries in which we are based or our activities are undertaken. Failure to comply with some of these regulations could lead to disciplinary action, including requiring clients to be compensated for loss, the imposition of penalties and the revocation of our authorization to operate. In addition, changes in legislation or regulations and actions by regulators, including changes in administration and enforcement policies, could from time to time require operational improvements or modifications at various locations which could result in higher costs or hinder our ability to operate our business.   

14 

 We are subject to a number of legal proceedings concerning contingent compensation, other industry practices and certain conduct, which, if determined unfavorably to us, could adversely affect our financial results.  

We have been subject to investigations by the departments of insurance or attorneys general of over 20 states, the District of Columbia, one US city, Canada and Australia concerning, among other things, arrangements pursuant to which insurers compensated insurance brokers for distribution and other services provided to insurers known as contingent compensation, bid rigging, tying and other possible violations of law, including violations of fiduciary duty, securities laws and antitrust laws. As more fully described in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report, we are subject to a number of legal proceedings and other contingencies related to the subject of these investigations. If one or more of these matters is determined unfavorably to us it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any given quarterly or annual period. We intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims. The outcomes of these lawsuits, however, including any losses or other payments that may occur as a result, cannot be predicted at this time.  

 Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be materially adversely affected by errors and omissions and the outcome of certain actual and potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings.  

We are subject to various actual and potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance and reinsurance in the ordinary course of business. Because we often assist our clients with matters, including the placement of insurance coverage and the handling of related claims, involving substantial amounts of money, errors and omissions claims against us may arise which allege our potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question. Claimants can seek large damage awards and these claims can involve potentially significant defense costs. Such claims,   

lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include allegations of damages for our employees or sub-agents improperly failing to place coverage or notify claims on behalf of clients, to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis. Errors and omissions claims, lawsuits and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business are covered in part by professional indemnity or other appropriate insurance. The terms of this insurance vary by policy year and self-insured risks have increased significantly in recent years. In respect of self-insured risks, we have established provisions against these items which we believe to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to developments. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. Our ability to obtain professional indemnity insurance in the amounts and with the deductibles we desire in the future may be adversely impacted by general developments in the market for such insurance or our own claims experience. In addition, claims, lawsuits and other proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business.  

The principal actual or potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings to which we are currently subject, including but not limited to errors and omissions claims, are: (1) the regulatory and other proceedings relating to contingent compensation arrangements referred to above; (2) potential claims arising out of various legal proceedings between reinsurers, reinsureds and their reinsurance brokers relating to personal accident excess of loss reinsurance placements for the years 1993 to 1998; (3) potential damages arising out of a court action, on behalf of a purported class of present and former female officer and officer equivalent employees for alleged discrimination against them on the basis of their gender; and (4) claims with respect to our placement of property and casualty insurance for a number of entities which were   

15 

directly impacted by the September 11, 2001 destruction of New York's World Trade Center complex.  

The ultimate outcome of all matters referred to above cannot be ascertained and liabilities in indeterminate amounts may be imposed on us. It is thus possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters. In addition, even if we do not experience significant monetary costs, there may be adverse publicity associated with these matters that will result in reputational harm to the insurance brokerage industry in general or to us in particular that may adversely affect our business.  

 Interruption or loss of our information processing systems or failure to maintain secure information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

Our business depends on highly available systems, secure information and the ability of our employees to process transactions. Our capacity to service our clients relies on storing, retrieving, processing and managing information. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities through loss of stored data, the failure of computer equipment or software systems, telecommunications failure or other disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services used by our company, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. Although we have certain disaster recovery procedures in place and insurance to protect against such contingencies, such procedures may not be effective and any insurance or recovery procedures may not continue to be available at reasonable prices and may not address all such losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that we are unable to provide services.   

Furthermore, we depend on computer systems to store information about our clients, some of which is private. Database privacy, identity theft, and related computer and internet issues are matters of growing public concern and are subject to frequently changing rules and regulations. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or harm to our reputation. We have taken reasonable and appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized access to information in our database. However, our technology may fail to adequately secure the private information we maintain in our databases and protect it from theft or inadvertent loss. In such circumstances, we may be held liable to our clients, which could result in litigation or adverse publicity that could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

 Financial Risks  

 The integration of the businesses and operations of HRH into our company involves risks and we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of HRH.  

The success of the acquisition of HRH completed in October 2008 will depend, in part, on our ability to achieve the anticipated cost synergies and other strategic benefits from combining the businesses of our company and HRH. We expect to benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and elimination of redundancies as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale. We may face significant challenges in consolidating the functions of our company and HRH and their subsidiaries, integrating their technologies, organizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in the business cultures of the two companies, retaining key personnel and maintaining relationships with certain third parties. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the acquisition may disrupt our ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with clients and customers and with other market participants, employees, regulators and others with whom we have business or other dealings. If we are not able to successfully   

16 

integrate the businesses, the anticipated cost synergies and other strategic benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.  

 Our incurrence of additional debt to pay a portion of the consideration related to the HRH acquisition significantly increased our interest expense, financial leverage and debt service requirements.  

In October 2008, in connection with the acquisition of HRH, we incurred incremental borrowings of $1.525 billion which significantly increased our leverage. These borrowings were drawn down under new credit facilities consisting of a $700 million 5-year term loan facility, a $300 million revolving credit facility and a $1 billion interim credit facility. In February 2009, we entered into an agreement with Goldman Sachs Mezzanine Partners to issue notes in an aggregate principal amount of $500 million. We anticipate that the net proceeds of this issuance of approximately $480 million will be applied towards the balance of the interim credit facility. Although consummation of the issuance, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to take place in March 2009, there is no certainty that the transaction will close. In addition, while the closing of the transaction would significantly extend the payment date for amounts otherwise due under the interim credit facility, the issuance of the notes will also result in a significant increase in our interest expense compared to that under the interim credit facility.  

Although management believes that our cash flows will be more than adequate to service this debt, there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this new debt could adversely affect our cash flows and this level of indebtedness may:   

•require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments in new technologies, to pay dividends and for general corporate purposes;   

•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including increases in interest rates if the borrowings bear interest at variable rates;   

•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes or challenges relating to our business and industry; and   

•put us at a competitive disadvantage against competitors who have less indebtedness or are in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources.  

The terms of the financing also include certain limitations on the amount and type of investments that may be made, the amount of dividends that may be declared, and the amount of shares that may be repurchased. In addition, any borrowings may be made at variable interest rates, making us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally.  

A failure to comply with the restrictions under our credit facilities and outstanding notes could result in a default under the financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could cause our obligations with respect to our debt to be accelerated and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

 A downgrade in the credit ratings of our outstanding debt may adversely affect our borrowing costs and financial flexibility.  

As of December 31, 2008, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $2.7 billion. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our debt would increase our borrowing costs and reduce our financial flexibility. In addition, certain downgrades would trigger a step-up in interest rates under the indenture for our 6.2% senior notes, which would increase our interest expense. If we need to raise capital in the future, any credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs or access to financing sources.   

17 

 If we are unable to repay or refinance the interim credit facility, it could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition.  

In connection with the HRH acquisition we entered into an interim credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1 billion, of which approximately $750 million remains outstanding. Failure to repay or refinance the interim credit facility at or prior to maturity would constitute an event of default under the interim credit agreement and would trigger cross default provisions in our other debt instruments and agreements, potentially causing such other debt to become immediately due and payable. However, our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and capital markets and other factors beyond our control and, given the current uncertainty in the capital markets, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. While we anticipate applying approximately $480 million of the proceeds of the March 2009 note issuance towards the outstanding balance of the interim credit facility, there is no assurance that the transaction will close. If we are not able to issue new debt to repay the interim credit facility, we may have to use other sources of cash such as drawing down on our current revolving credit facility, future cash flows or cash on hand. The use of our revolving credit facility and other cash resources would restrict our financial flexibility and our ability to use such cash for other purposes and could have a significant negative impact on our liquidity.  

 Our pension liabilities may increase which could require us to make additional cash contributions to our pension plans.  

We have two principal defined benefit plans: one in the United Kingdom and the other in the United States. Cash contributions of approximately $55 million will be required in 2009 for our pension plans, although we may elect to contribute more. Total cash contributions to these defined benefit pension plans in 2008 were $148 million. Future estimates are based on certain assumptions, including discount rates, interest rates, fair value of assets and expected return on plan assets. Following changes to UK pension legislation in 2005, we are now required to agree to a funding strategy for our UK   

defined benefit plan with the plan's trustees. In February 2009, we agreed to make full year contributions to the UK plan of $37 million for 2009 through 2012. However, if certain funding targets are not met at the beginning of 2010 and 2011, full year contributions for these years will increase to $74 million. We have taken actions to manage our pension liabilities, including closing our UK and US plans to new participants and restricting final pensionable salaries.  

The determinations of pension expense and pension funding are based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs, additional financial statement disclosure, and accelerate and increase the need to fully fund our pension plans. Our future required cash contributions to our US and UK defined benefit pension plans may increase based on the funding reform provisions that were enacted into law. Further, a significant decline in the value of investments that fund our pension plan, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in our liabilities, may significantly differ from or alter the values and actuarial assumptions used to calculate our future pension expense and we could be required to fund our plan with significant amounts of cash. In addition, if the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation requires additional contributions to such plans or if other actuarial assumptions are modified, our future required cash contributions could increase. The need to make these cash contributions may reduce the cash available to meet our other obligations, including the payment obligations under our credit facilities and other long-term debt, or to meet the needs of our business.  

In addition to the critical assumptions described above, our plans use certain assumptions about the life expectancy of plan participants and surviving spouses. Periodic revision of those assumptions can materially change the present value of future benefits and therefore the funded status of the plans and the resulting periodic pension expense. Changes in our pension benefit obligations and the related net periodic costs or credits may occur in the future due to any variance of actual results from our assumptions   

18 

and changes in the number of participating employees. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not experience future decreases in stockholders equity, net income, cash flow and liquidity or that we will not be required to make additional cash contributions in the future beyond those which have been estimated.  

 We have entered into significant put and call arrangements which require us to pay substantial amounts to purchase shares in one of our associates. Those payments would reduce our liquidity and short-term cash flow.  

In connection with many of our investments in our associates, we retain rights to increase our ownership percentages over time and, in some cases, the existing owners also have a right to put their shares to us. The put arrangements in place for shares of our associate, Gras Savoye, require us to pay substantial amounts to purchase those shares, which could decrease our liquidity and short-term cash flow.  

The rights under the put arrangement may be exercised through 2011. Under the put arrangement, we will be required to buy shares of Gras Savoye increasing our voting rights from the 48 percent we currently hold up to 100 percent if all shareholders put their shares under this arrangement, subject to the pre-emption provisions set out in the bye-laws of Gras Savoye.  

Following our initial acquisition of shares, we acquired an additional 5 percent of Gras Savoye at a cost of $25 million under these arrangements in September 2006, another 4 percent at a cost of $31 million in January 2008 and another 5 percent at a cost of $41 million at the end of December 2008.  

According to the put arrangement, the aggregate management shareholding may not fall below approximately 10% of Gras Savoye's share capital while the management shareholders remain general partners of the company. The current appointments of the relevant individuals will expire on December 31, 2009. Accordingly (and except in case of death, disability or retirement prior to such date), management shareholders will not have a general put right until January 1, 2011. Payments in connection   

with management put rights would not have exceeded $67 million if those rights had been fully exercised at December 31, 2008. In addition, we have a call option to move to majority ownership under certain circumstances and in any event from December 2009. Once we exercise this call option, the remaining Gras Savoye shareholders will have a put option to require us to purchase their shares.  

Subject to the pre-emption provisions set out in the bye-laws of Gras Savoye, the incremental 42 percent of Gras Savoye shares held by shareholders (excluding the 10 percent holding of management shareholders described above) may be put to us at a price determined by a contractual formula based on earnings and revenue, which at December 31, 2008 would have amounted to approximately $285 million. The shareholders may put their shares individually at any time during the put period and the amounts we may have to pay in connection with the put arrangements may significantly exceed this estimate. In each case, we would have 90 days from the date of a notification from a shareholder who wished to put his shares to us to acquire those shares. The timing of any exercise of these put and call arrangements could have a material affect on our results of operations or cash flows for a particular quarter or annual period.  

We recently received a notification from one of the shareholders of Gras Savoye, namely AXA Corporate Solutions, informing us of its intention to put its shares in Gras Savoye to us, subject to the pre-emption provisions set out in bye-laws of Gras Savoye. The shares held by AXA represent approximately 4 percent of the share capital of Gras Savoye. Notwithstanding that we have received this notice from AXA we believe that it is likely that we will not be required to acquire all of the AXA shares in the immediate future or, in some circumstances, at all. We believe that either:-   

•Gras Savoye itself will buy back all the AXA shares on 23 March 2009 and as a result, we would not acquire any of them; or   

•AXA will agree to extend the date for payment of the amount due in respect of the AXA shares and that Gras Savoye itself will buy back all the AXA shares on the agreed   

19 

date for payment. In these circumstances we believe that Gras Savoye will buy back all the AXA shares and would agree to pay the amount due in respect of the shares into an escrow account to be paid to AXA upon completion of the acquisition of the shares. Again, as a result, we would not be required to acquire any of the shares; or    

•certain of the other shareholders of Gras Savoye will exercise their pre-emption rights to acquire a portion of the AXA shares. In these circumstances we believe that AXA would withdraw its notification in respect of the remaining shares held by it although we believe that it would then exercise its right to put those to us later in 2009.  

In the event that none of the above occurred or an alternative arrangement was agreed, we would be required to acquire the AXA shares on 23 March 2009. The amount payable by us for the AXA shares would be approximately $25 million.  

 International Risks  

 Our significant non-US operations, particularly our London market operations, expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business.  

A significant portion of our operations is conducted outside the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into pounds sterling or dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; and the requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws.  

We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars. Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in US dollars. In our London market operations, however, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost   

entirely incurred in pounds sterling. Outside the United States and our London market operations, we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in the local currency. The table gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency in 2008, and includes full year HRH results on a proforma basis.   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into US dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. Furthermore, the mismatch between pounds sterling revenues and expenses, together with any net sterling balance sheet position we hold in our US dollar denominated London market operations, creates an exchange exposure.  

For example, as the pound sterling strengthens, the US dollars required to be translated into pounds sterling to cover the net sterling expenses increase, which then causes our results to be negatively impacted. Our results may also be adversely impacted if we are holding a net sterling position in our US dollar denominated London market operations: if the pound sterling weakens any net sterling asset we are holding will be less valuable when translated into US dollars. Given these facts, the relative strength of the pound sterling relative to the US dollar has in the past had a material negative impact on our reported results. This risk could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition, cash flow and results of operations in the future.  

Where possible, we hedge part of our exposure to exchange rate movements, for example:   

•to the extent that forecast pound sterling expenses exceed pound sterling revenues, we limit our exposure to this exchange rate risk by the use of forward contracts matched to specific, clearly identified cash outflows arising in the ordinary course of business; and   

20 

•to the extent the London market operations also earn significant revenues in Euros and Japanese Yen, we limit our exposure to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and these currencies by the use of forward contracts matched to a percentage of forecast cash inflows in specific currencies and periods.  

Generally, it is our policy to hedge at least 25 percent of the next 12 months' exposure in significant currencies.  

We do not hedge exposures beyond three years or exposures arising from items, such as our UK pension asset, which will not be reflected in our cash flows in the short term.  

 In conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.  

In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks. Our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets, and we expect this trend to continue. The possible effects of economic and financial disruptions throughout the world could have an adverse impact on our businesses. These risks include:   

•the general economic and political conditions in foreign countries;   

•the imposition of controls or limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;   

•imposition of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments from subsidiaries;   

•imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments;   

•difficulties in controlling operations and monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and   

•the requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws as well as laws and regulations applicable to US business operations abroad, including rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the US Office of Foreign Assets Control, the EU and the UN, and the requirements of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as well as other anti-bribery and corruption rules and requirements in the countries in which we operate.  

 We could incur substantial losses if one of the financial institutions we use in our operations would happen to fail.  

The recent deterioration of the global credit and financial markets has created challenging conditions for financial institutions, including depositories. As the fallout from the credit crisis persists, the financial strength of these institutions may continue to decline. We maintain cash balances at various US depository institutions that are significantly in excess of the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. We also maintain cash balances in foreign financial institutions. If one or more of the institutions in which we maintain significant cash balances were to fail, our ability to access these funds might be temporarily or permanently limited, and we could face a material liquidity problem and potentially material financial losses.   

     Item 1B—Unresolved Staff Comments 

The Company had no unresolved comments

 from the SEC's staff.  

21 

     Item 2—Properties