Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

 Financial Risk Management  

We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we enter into a variety of interest rate and foreign currency derivatives. We do not hold financial or derivative instruments for trading purposes.  

A discussion of our accounting policies for financial and derivative instruments is included in Note 2—Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and further disclosure is provided in Note 21—Financial Instruments of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Foreign exchange risk management  

Because of the large number of countries and currencies we operate in, movements in currency exchange rates may affect our results.  

We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars. Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in US dollars. Outside the United States, we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in the local currency with the exception of our London market operations which earns revenues in several currencies but incurs expenses predominantly in pounds sterling.  

The table below gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency in 2008 and includes full year HRH results on a proforma basis.   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Our principal exposures to foreign exchange risk arise from:    

•our London market operations; and   

•translation.    

 London market operations  

In our London market operations, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, principally US dollars, pounds sterling, euros and Japanese yen, but incur expenses almost entirely in pounds sterling.  

We hedge this risk as follows:    

•to the extent that forecast pound sterling expenses exceed pound sterling revenues, we limit our exposure to this exchange rate risk by the use of forward contracts matched to specific, clearly identified cash outflows arising in the ordinary course of business; and   

•to the extent our London market operations earn significant revenues in euros and Japanese Yen, we limit our exposure to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and these currencies by the use of forward contracts matched to a percentage of forecast cash inflows in specific currencies and periods.   

Generally, it is our policy to hedge at least 25 percent of the next 12 months' exposure in significant currencies. We do not hedge exposures beyond three years.  

In addition, we are also exposed to foreign exchange risk on any net sterling asset or liability position in our London market operations. Where this risk relates to short-term cash flows, we hedge all or part of the risk by forward purchases or sales.  

However, where the foreign exchange risk relates to any sterling pension assets benefit or liability for pensions benefit, we do not hedge the risk. Consequently, if our London market operations have a significant pension asset or liability, we may be exposed to accounting gains and losses if the US dollar and pounds sterling exchange rate changes. We do, however, hedge the pounds sterling contributions into the pension plan.  

 Translation risk  

Outside our US and London market operations, we predominantly earn revenues and incur expenses in the local currency. When we   

59 

translate the results and net assets of these operations into US dollars for reporting purposes, movements in exchange rates will affect reported results and net assets. For example, if the US dollar strengthens against the euro, the reported results of our Eurozone operations in US dollar terms will be lower.   

We do not hedge translation risk.   

The table below provides information about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which are sensitive to exchange rate risk. The table summarizes the US dollar equivalent amounts of each currency bought and sold forward and the weighted average contractual exchange rates. All forward exchange contracts mature within three years.   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

(1)Represents the difference between the contract amount and the cash flow in US dollars which would have been receivable had the foreign currency forward exchange contracts been entered into on December 31, 2008 or 2007 at the forward exchange rates prevailing at that date.  

Income earned within foreign subsidiaries outside of the UK is generally offset by expenses in the same local currency but the Company does have exposure to foreign exchange movements on the net income of these entities. The Company does not hedge net income earned within foreign subsidiaries outside of the UK.   

 Interest rate risk management  

Our operations are financed principally by $1,200 million fixed rate senior notes issued by a subsidiary, which are split between $250 million due 2010, $350 million due 2015 and $600 million due 2017 and by $1,450 million bank facilities which are split between $750 million due 2009 and $700 million which matures in 2013. The 5-year term loan facility   

60 

amortizes at the rate of $35 million per quarter commencing from December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2008 we had access to, but had not drawn $300 million under a revolving credit facility that expires in 2013. The interest rate applicable to the bank borrowing is variable according to the period of each individual drawdown.  

We are also subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on our investing activities where our primary interest rate risk arises from changes in short-term interest rates in both US dollars and pounds sterling.  

As a consequence of our insurance and reinsurance broking activities, there is a delay between the time we receive cash for premiums and claims and the time the cash needs to be paid. We earn interest on this float, which is included in our consolidated financial statements as investment income.  

This float is regulated in terms of access and the instruments in which it may be invested, most of   

which are short-term in maturity. We manage the interest rate risk arising from this exposure primarily through the use of interest rate swaps. It is our policy that, for currencies with significant balances, a minimum of 25 percent of forecast income arising is hedged for each of the next three years.  

The table below provides information about our derivative instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional principal amounts and average interest rates analyzed by expected maturity dates. Notional principal amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contracts. The duration of interest rate swaps varies between one and four years, with re-fixing periods of three months. Average fixed and variable rates are, respectively, the weighted-average actual and market rates for the interest hedges in place. Market rates are the rates prevailing at December 31, 2008 or 2007, as appropriate.   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

(1)Represents the net present value of the expected cash flows discounted at current market rates of interest as appropriate.  

61 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

(1)Represents the net present value of the expected cash flows discounted at current market rates of interest as appropriate.  

62 

 WILLIS GROUP HOLDINGS LIMITED 

     Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data