PART I 

     Item 1—Business 

 History and Development of the Company  

Willis Group Holdings is the ultimate holding company for the Group. We trace our history to 1828 and are one of the largest insurance brokers in the world.  

Willis Group Holdings was incorporated in Bermuda on February 8, 2001 as an exempted company under the Companies Act, for the sole purpose of redomiciling the ultimate parent company of the Willis Group from the United Kingdom to Bermuda.  

For administrative convenience, we utilize the offices of a subsidiary company as our principal executive offices. The address is:   

Willis Group Holdings Limited

 c/o Willis Group Limited

 The Willis Building

 51 Lime Street

 London EC3M 7DQ

 England

 Tel: +44 203 124 6000   

For several years, we have focused on our core retail and specialist broking operations. Prior to 2008, we made a number of smaller acquisitions around the world and increased our ownership in several of our associates and existing subsidiaries, which were not wholly-owned, where doing so strengthened our retail network and our specialty businesses.  

On October 1, 2008, we completed the acquisition of HRH, the eighth largest insurance and risk management intermediary in the United States. The acquisition doubled our North America revenues and the combined Willis HRH operation has critical mass in key markets including California, Florida, Texas, Illinois, New York, Boston, New Jersey and Philadelphia.  

 Available Information  

Willis Group Holdings files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and copy any documents we file at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE   

Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the Public Reference Room. The SEC maintains a website that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information that issuers (including Willis Group Holdings) file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's website is www.sec.gov.  

The Company makes available, free of charge through our website, www.willis.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our proxy statement, current reports on Form 8-K and Forms 3, 4, and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, as well as any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Unless specifically incorporated by reference, information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K.  

The Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter are also available on our website, www.willis.com, in the Corporate Governance section, or upon written or verbal request. Requests for copies of these documents should be directed in writing to the Company Secretary at the above address.  

 General  

We provide a broad range of insurance brokerage, reinsurance and risk management consulting services to our worldwide clients. We have significant market positions in the United States, in the United Kingdom and, directly and through our associates, in many other countries. We are a recognized leader in providing specialized risk management advisory and other services on a global basis to clients in various industries including the aerospace, marine, construction and energy industries.  

In our capacity as an advisor and insurance broker, we act as an intermediary between our clients and insurance carriers by advising our   

6 

clients on their risk management requirements, helping clients determine the best means of managing risk, and negotiating and placing insurance risk with insurance carriers through our global distribution network.  

We assist clients in the assessment of their risks, advise on the best ways of transferring suitable risk to the global insurance and reinsurance markets and then execute the transactions at the most appropriate available price, terms and conditions for our clients. Our global distribution network enables us to place the risk in the most appropriate insurance or reinsurance market worldwide.  

We also offer clients a broad range of services to help them to identify and control their risks. These services range from strategic risk consulting (including providing actuarial analyses), to a variety of due diligence services, to the provision of practical on-site risk control services (such as health and safety or property loss control consulting) as well as analytical and advisory services (such as hazard modeling and reinsurance optimization studies). We assist clients in planning how to manage incidents or crises when they occur. These services include contingency planning, security audits and product tampering plans. We are not an insurance company and therefore we do not underwrite insurable risks for our own account, with the exception of a small legacy HRH operation (which is immaterial to the Group) in Omaha that underwrites for college fraternities.  

We and our associates serve a diverse base of clients located in approximately 190 countries. These clients include major multinational and middle-market companies in a variety of industries, as well as public institutions and individual clients. Many of our client relationships span decades. Including our associates, we have approximately 20,000 employees around the world and a network of about 400 offices in some 100 countries.  

We believe we are one of only a few insurance brokers in the world possessing the global operating presence, broad product expertise and extensive distribution network necessary to meet effectively the global risk management needs of many of our clients.   

 Business Strategy—Shaping our Future  

Shaping our Future, our strategy introduced in 2006, aims to deliver profitable growth over the next several years.  

Our vision is that Willis will:   

•segment clients and deliver service consistent with their needs and target high growth businesses and geographies;   

•drive profitable growth through providing our clients with value and service above that provided by our competitors;   

•use our global scale to manage carrier relationships in the best interest of the clients and to deliver product innovation;   

•aim to deliver service to clients efficiently by streamlining our organization and utilizing industry leading technology. We expect to create the optimal platform by enhancing our service model, processes and technology; and   

•become the employer of choice by creating a clear path of career development for our people and a reward and recognition framework that recognizes team work.  

 Our Business  

Insurance and reinsurance is a global business, and its participants are affected by global trends in capacity and pricing. Accordingly, we operate as one global business which ensures all clients' interests are handled efficiently and comprehensively, whatever their initial point of contact. We organize our business into three segments: North America and International, which together comprise our principal retail operations, and Global. For information regarding revenues, operating income and total assets per segment, see Note 22 of the Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein.  

 Global  

Our Global business provides specialist brokerage and consulting services to clients worldwide for the risks arising from specific industrial and commercial activities. In these operations, we have extensive specialized   

7 

experience handling diverse lines of coverage, including complex insurance programs, and acting as an intermediary between retail brokers and insurers. We increasingly provide consulting services on risk management with the objective of assisting clients to reduce the overall cost of risk. Our Global business serves clients in around 190 countries, primarily from offices in the United Kingdom, although we also serve clients from offices in the United States, Continental Europe and Asia.  

The Global business is divided into:   

•Global Specialties;   

•Willis Re; and   

•Faber & Dumas  

Faber & Dumas, our new wholesale brokerage division, was launched in October 2008 on completion of Willis' acquisition of HRH. Faber & Dumas comprises HRH's London-based operation Glencairn, together with our Fine Art, Jewelry and Specie; Special Contingency Risk and Hughes-Gibb units.  

 Global Specialties  

Global Specialties has strong global positions in Aerospace, Energy, Marine, Construction, Financial and Executive Risks and several niche businesses.   

•Aerospace

We are highly experienced in the provision of insurance and reinsurance brokerage and risk management services to Aerospace clients, including aircraft manufacturers, air cargo handlers and shippers, airport managers and other general aviation companies. Advisory services provided by aerospace include claims recovery, contract and leasing risk management, safety services and market information. Aerospace's clients are spread throughout the world and include approximately 350 airlines and in excess of 30 percent of the top 30 of the world's leading insured non-American airports by passenger movement. Aerospace is also prominent in supplying the space industry through providing insurance and risk management services to approximately 40 companies.    

•Energy 

Our Energy practice provides insurance brokerage services including property damage, offshore construction, liability and control of well and pollution insurance to the energy industry. The Energy practice clients are worldwide. We are highly experienced in providing insurance brokerage for all aspects of the energy industry including exploration and production, refining and marketing, offshore construction and pipelines.  

•Marine 

Our marine unit provides marine insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, including hull, cargo and general marine liabilities. Marine's clients include ship owners, ship builders, logistics operators, port authorities, traders and shippers, other insurance intermediaries and insurance companies. Marine insurance brokerage is our oldest line of business dating back to our establishment in 1828.  

•Construction

Our Construction practice provides risk management advice and brokerage services for a wide range of UK and international construction activities. The clients of the construction practice include contractors, project owners, project managers, project financiers, professional consultants and insurers. We are the broker for many of the leading global construction firms.  

•Financial and Executive Risks 

Our Financial and Executive Risks unit specializes in broking directors' and officers' insurance as well as professional indemnity insurance for corporations and professional firms. It incorporates our political risk unit, as well as structured finance and credit teams. It also places structured crime and specialist liability insurance for clients across the broad spectrum of financial institutions as well as specializing in strategic risk assessment and transactional risk transfer solutions.    

8 

 Willis Re  

We are one of the world's largest intermediaries for reinsurance and have a significant market share in the world's major markets, particularly marine and aviation. We operate this business on a global basis and our clients are both insurance and reinsurance companies.  

We provide a complete range of transactional capabilities, including risk transfer via the capital markets, as well as analytical and advisory services including enterprise risk management, hazard modeling, financial and balance sheet analysis and reinsurance optimization studies.  

 Faber & Dumas  

Faber & Dumas is our wholesale brokerage division and comprises Glencairn; Fine Art, Jewelry and Specie; Special Contingency Risk and Hughes-Gibb units.   

•Glencairn principally provides property, energy, casualty and personal accident insurance to independent wholesaler brokers worldwide who wish to access the London, European and Bermudan markets.   

•The Fine Art, Jewelry and Specie unit provides specialist risk management and insurance services to fine art, diamond and jewelry businesses and operators of armored cars. Coverage is also obtained for vault and bullion risks.   

•The Special Contingency Risks unit specializes in producing packages to protect corporations, groups and individuals against special contingencies such as kidnap and ransom, extortion, detention and political repatriation.   

•The Hughes-Gibb unit principally services the insurance and reinsurance needs of the horse racing and horse breeding industry.  

 Retail operations  

Our North America and International retail operations provide services to small, medium and major corporate clients, accessing Global's specialist expertise when required.   

 North America  

In October 2008, we completed the acquisition of HRH, a leading middle market US-based insurance broker with a large account portfolio. HRH generated $800 million of revenues in 2007, with $57 million from its international operations, which are based in London. The acquisition substantially improves our position in important areas in North America including California, Florida, Texas, Illinois, New York, Massachusetts, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, and in key business lines. In particular, it will more than double our North America revenues in Employee Benefits, an already strong area of expertise that we have targeted for further growth. In addition, it will further strengthen key practice areas including personal lines, real estate, health care, environmental, construction, complex property and executive risk.  

Our North America business provides risk management, insurance brokerage, related risk services, and employee benefits brokerage and consulting to a wide array of industry and client segments in the United States and Canada. With around 95 retail locations, organized into 8 regions including Canada, Willis North America locally delivers our global and national resources and specialist expertise through this retail distribution network.  

In addition to being organized geographically and by specialty, our North America business focuses on four client segments: global, large national/middle-market, small commercial, and private client, with service, marketing and sales platform support for each segment. Further, our North America Marketing Practice provides clients with efficient access to worldwide insurance capital.   

•North America Construction 

The largest industry practice group in North America is Construction which specializes in providing risk management, insurance brokerage, and surety bonding services to the construction industry. Willis Construction provides these services to around 25 percent of the Engineering News Record Top 400 contractors (a listing of the largest 400 North American contractors based on revenue). In addition, this practice group has expertise in    

9 

owner controlled insurance programs for large projects and insurance for national homebuilders.   

•Other industry practice groups 

Other industry practice groups include Healthcare, serving the professional liability and other insurance and risk management needs of private and not-for-profit health systems, hospitals and physicians groups; Financial Institutions, serving the needs of large banks, insurers and other financial services firms; Mergers & Acquisitions, providing due diligence, and risk management and insurance brokerage services to private equity and merchant banking firms and their portfolio companies.  

•Employee Benefits 

Willis Employee Benefits, fully integrated into the North America platform, is our largest product-based practice group and provides health, welfare and human resources consulting, and brokerage services to all of our commercial client segments. This practice group's value lies in helping clients control employee benefit plan costs, reducing the amount of time human resources professionals spend administering their companies' benefit plans and educating and training employees on benefit plan issues.  

•Executive Risks 

Another industry-leading North America practice group is Willis Executive Risks, a national team of technical professionals who specialize in meeting the directors & officers, employment practices, fiduciary liability insurance risk management, and claims advocacy needs of public and private corporations and organizations. This practice group also has expertise in professional liability, especially internet risks.  

•Excess & Surplus 

The Excess and Surplus segment, based in Redondo Beach, California with offices operating in California, Texas, Florida and Illinois, is a wholesale broker providing access to excess and surplus lines markets for the domestic network of retail brokers.    

•CAPS 

The Captive, Actuarial, and Pooling Solutions (CAPS) practice has a national team of actuaries, certified public accountants, financial analysts and pooled insurance program experts who help large clients develop, implement and manage alternative risks financing vehicles.  

•Willis HRH Programs 

Willis HRH Programs, based in Portsmouth, New Hampshire with operations in Florida, Michigan, Utah, Colorado, Connecticut and Vermont, is a managing general agent/managing general underwriter and a leader in providing national insurance programs to niche industries including ski resorts, auto dealers, recycling, environmental, and specialty workers' compensation.   

 International  

Our International unit consists of our retail operations in Eastern and Western Europe, the United Kingdom and Ireland, Asia/Pacific, Russia, the Middle East, South Africa and Latin America, with a presence in over 100 countries worldwide.  

Our offices are there to grow our business locally around the world, making use of skills, industry knowledge and expertise available elsewhere in the Group.  

The services provided are focused according to the characteristics of each market and are not identical in every office, but generally include direct risk management and insurance brokerage, specialist and reinsurance brokerage and employee benefits consulting.  

We target both large accounts and middle market clients. Recent global market conditions have resulted in excellent opportunities to recruit talented teams and individuals from the competition with new and complementary skills and relationships. We have a dedicated team within International working on the implementation of our Shaping our Future strategy and initiatives, identifying opportunities for increased efficiency and growth.  

We believe the combined total revenues of our International subsidiaries and associates provide   

10 

an indication of the spread and capability of our International network. Our International segment generated close to 40 percent of total consolidated commissions and fees in 2008.   

•Emerging Markets

We have separately identified high growth markets across all International retail operations. This encompasses the fast-developing, high growth regions of Eastern Europe, Russia, Asia (excluding Japan), the Middle East and South Africa. We bring particular capabilities and scale in energy, construction, marine and aerospace to these regions.  

•Global Markets International 

Global Markets International works closely with Global to further develop access for our retail clients to global markets, and provide structuring and placing skills in the relevant areas of property, casualty, terrorism, accident & health, facultative and captives.  

•Strategic Investments 

As part of our on-going strategy, we are continually strengthening our International market share through acquisitions and strategic investments. We have acquired a controlling interest in a broad geographic spread of other brokers—a list of the significant International subsidiaries is included in Exhibit 21.1 to this document.   

We have also invested in associate companies; our significant associates at December 31, 2008 were Gras Savoye & Cie ("Gras Savoye"), France (48 percent voting rights) and Al-Futtaim Willis Co. LLC, Dubai (49 percent holding). In connection with many of our investments, we retain the rights to increase our ownership percentage over time, typically to a majority or 100 percent ownership position. In addition, in certain instances our co-shareholders have a right, typically based on some price formula of revenues or earnings, to put some or all of their shares to us (see "Item 1a—Risk Factors—Put and Call Arrangements"). On January 2, 2008, we acquired an additional 4 percent of Gras Savoye and a further 5 percent on December 31, 2008, bringing our total current voting rights to 48 percent.   

 Customers  

Our clients operate on a global and local scale in a multitude of businesses and industries throughout the world and generally range in size from major multinational corporations to middle-market companies. Further, many of our client relationships span decades, for instance our relationship with The Tokio Marine and Fire Insurance Company Limited dates back over 100 years. No one client accounted for more than 10 percent of revenues for fiscal year 2008. Additionally, we place insurance with over 5,000 insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for more than 10 percent of the total premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2008.  

 Competition  

We face competition in all fields in which we operate based on global capability, product breadth, innovation, quality of service and price. According to the Directory of Agents and Brokers published by Business Insurance in July 2008, the 140 largest commercial insurance brokers globally reported brokerage revenues totaling $37 billion in 2007, of which Marsh & McLennan Companies Inc. had approximately 31 percent, Aon Corporation had approximately 19 percent and Willis had approximately 7 percent.  

We compete with Marsh & McLennan and Aon as well as with numerous specialist, regional and local firms. Although Marsh & McLennan and Aon, along with us, have agreed to implement certain business reforms, many specialist, regional and local firms have not agreed to those business reforms. These firms are continuing to accept contingent compensation and are not disclosing the compensation received in connection with providing policy placement services to the customer.  

Insurance companies also compete with brokers by directly soliciting insureds without the assistance of an independent broker or agent.  

Competition for business is intense in all our business lines and in every insurance market. Competition on premium rates has also exacerbated the pressures caused by a continuing reduction in demand in some classes of business.   

11 

For example, insurers are currently retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously. Industrial and commercial companies are increasingly relying upon captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than buying insurance.  

Additional competitive pressures arise from the entry of new market participants, such as banks, accounting firms and insurance carriers themselves, offering risk management or transfer services.  

 Regulation  

Our business activities are subject to legal requirements and governmental and quasi-governmental regulatory supervision in virtually all countries in which we operate. Also, such regulations may require individual or company licensing to conduct our business activities. While these requirements may vary from location to location they are generally designed to protect our clients by establishing minimum standards of conduct and practice, particularly regarding the provision of advice and product information as well as financial criteria.  

Our activities in connection with insurance brokerage services within the United States are subject to regulation and supervision by state authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, insurance laws in the United States are often complex and generally grant broad discretion to supervisory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. That supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling and investment of client funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Our continuing ability to provide insurance brokerage in the jurisdictions in which we currently operate is dependent upon our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated from time to time by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions.  

The European Union Insurance Mediation Directive introduced rules to enable insurance   

and reinsurance intermediaries to operate and provide services within each member state of the EU on a basis consistent with the EU single market and customer protection aims. Each EU member state, in which we operate, is required to ensure that the insurance and reinsurance intermediaries resident in their country are registered with a statutory body in that country and that each intermediary meets professional requirements in relation to their competence, good repute, professional indemnity cover and financial capacity. In the United Kingdom the statutory body is the Financial Services Authority.  

The Financial Services Authority has prescribed the methods by which our insurance and reinsurance operations are to conduct business, and they generally conduct their regulatory functions through the establishment of net worth and other financial criteria. They also require the submission of reports and have investigative and disciplinary powers. Monitoring visits are carried out to assess our compliance with regulatory requirements.  

Our failure, or that of our employees, to satisfy the regulators that we are in compliance with their requirements or the legal requirements governing our activities, can result in disciplinary action, fines, reputational damage and financial harm.  

All companies carrying on similar activities in a given jurisdiction are subject to regulations which are not dissimilar to the requirements for our operations in the United States and United Kingdom. We do not consider that these regulatory requirements adversely affect our competitive position.  

 Employees  

As of December 31, 2008 we had approximately 17,000 employees worldwide of whom approximately 3,500 were employed in the United Kingdom and 7,400 in the United States, with the balance being employed across the rest of the world. In addition, our associates had approximately 3,300 employees, all of whom were located outside the United Kingdom and the United States.   

12 

     Item 1A—Risk Factors