PART I  

Item 1. Business.  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

 Founded in 1901 as a retail shoe business in Seattle, Nordstrom later incorporated in the state of Washington in 1946. We are one of the nation’s leading fashion specialty retailers, with 187 U.S. stores located in 28 states as of March 19, 2010. The west and east coasts are the areas in which we have the largest presence. We have four reportable segments: Retail Stores, Direct, Credit, and Other. 

The Retail Stores segment derives its revenues from sales of high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories. It includes our 112 ‘Nordstrom’ full-line stores, 72 off-price ‘Nordstrom Rack’ stores, two ‘Jeffrey’ boutiques, and one clearance store that operates under the name ‘Last Chance.’ The Nordstrom Rack stores purchase merchandise directly from manufacturers and also serve as outlets for clearance merchandise from our full-line stores.  

Direct generates revenues from sales of high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories by serving our customers on the Internet at www.nordstrom.com. The Direct segment’s merchandise is primarily shipped from our fulfillment center in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. However, beginning in the third quarter of 2009, we linked our Direct segment’s inventory with that of our full-line stores and now have the ability to fulfill online orders from any of our full-line stores. This has given our customers access to more of our merchandise. Additionally we offer our customers the option to purchase items on our Web site and pick them up in our full-line stores. These enhancements have enabled us to better serve customers across various channels and improve sales.  

Our Credit segment includes our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb, through which we offer a private label card, two Nordstrom VISA credit cards and a debit card for Nordstrom purchases. The credit and debit cards feature a shopping-based program designed to increase customer visits and spending. Although the primary purpose of our Credit business is to foster greater customer loyalty and drive more sales, we also generate revenues through finance charges and other fees on these cards.  

Our Other segment includes our product development team, called Nordstrom Product Group, which designs and contracts to manufacture private label merchandise sold in our Retail Stores and Direct segments. In addition, this segment includes our corporate center operations.  

For more information about our business and our reportable segments, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on page 16 and Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  

FISCAL YEAR

 We operate on a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to January 31st. References to 2009, 2008 and 2007 relate to the 52-week fiscal years ended January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008, respectively. References to 2010 relate to the 52-week fiscal year ending January 29, 2011.  

TRADEMARKS

 We have 136 trademarks, each of which is the subject of one or more trademark registrations and/or trademark applications. Our most notable trademarks include Nordstrom, Nordstrom Rack, John W. Nordstrom, Caslon, and Classiques Entier. Each of our trademarks is renewable indefinitely provided that it is still used in commerce at the time of the renewal.  

RETURN POLICY

 We offer our customers a fair and liberal return policy at our full-line stores and online at Nordstrom Direct. Our Nordstrom Rack stores accept returns up to 30 days from the date of purchase with the original price tag and sales receipt. In general, our return policy is considered to be more generous and liberal than industry standards.  

SEASONALITY

 Due to our Anniversary Sale in July, the holidays in December and the half-yearly sales that occur in the second and fourth quarters, our sales are historically higher in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year than in the first and third quarters.  

INVENTORY

 We plan our merchandise purchases and receipts to coincide with expected sales trends. For instance, our merchandise purchases and receipts increase prior to our Anniversary Sale, which extends over the last two weeks of July. Also, we purchase and receive a larger amount of merchandise in the fall as we prepare for the holiday shopping season (from late November through early January). We pay for our merchandise purchases under the terms established with our vendors.  

In order to offer merchandise that our customers want, we purchase merchandise from a wide variety of high-quality suppliers. We also have arrangements with agents and contract manufacturers to produce our private label merchandise. Our suppliers include domestic and foreign businesses. We expect our suppliers to meet our “Nordstrom Partnership: Standards and Business Practice Guidelines,” which address our standards for matters such as legal and regulatory compliance, labor, health and safety, and the environment.  

4    
COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

 Our business is highly competitive. We compete with other national, regional and local retail establishments that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, boutiques and Internet businesses. Our specific competitors vary from market to market. We believe the keys to competing in our industry include customer service, fashion newness, quality of product, the shopping experience, depth of selection, store environment and location.  

EMPLOYEES

 During 2009, we employed approximately 48,000 employees on a full- or part-time basis. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, employment increased to approximately 51,000 employees in July 2009 and 53,000 in December 2009. We do not have a significant number of employees who are members of a union. We believe our relationship with our employees is good.  

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

 Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain “forward-looking” information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated financial results, anticipated store openings, capital expenditures and dividend yield, and trends in company operations. Such statements are based upon current beliefs and expectations of the company’s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including but not limited to the impact of deteriorating economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns, the company’s ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends, the company’s ability to safeguard its brand and reputation, effective inventory management, efficient and proper allocation of the company’s capital resources, successful execution of the company’s store growth strategy including the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, all of which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties, the company’s compliance with applicable banking and related laws and regulations impacting the company’s ability to extend credit to its customers, trends in personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs, availability and cost of credit, impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system reforms, changes in interest rates, disruptions in the company’s supply chain, the company’s ability to maintain its relationship with vendors and developers who may be experiencing economic difficulties, the geographic locations of the company’s stores, the company’s ability to maintain its relationships with its employees and to effectively train and develop its future leaders, the company’s compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, employment laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to the company, successful execution of the company’s information technology strategy, successful execution of the company’s multi-channel strategy, risks related to fluctuations in world currencies, public health concerns and the resulting impact on consumer spending patterns, supply chain, and employee health, weather conditions and hazards of nature that affect consumer traffic and consumers’ purchasing patterns, the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns, and the company’s ability to control costs. These and other factors could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. The company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.  

SEC FILINGS

 We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All material we file with the SEC is publicly available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  

WEB SITE ACCESS

 Our Web site address is www.nordstrom.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Web site our annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format), current reports on Form 8-K, statements of changes in beneficial ownership of securities on Form 4 and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the report with or furnish it to the SEC. Interested parties may also access a webcast of quarterly earnings conference calls and other financial events over our Web site.  

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

 We have a long-standing commitment to upholding a high level of ethical standards. In addition, as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and the rules of the SEC, we have adopted Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics for our employees, officers and directors (“Codes of Ethics”) and Corporate Governance Guidelines. We have posted on our Web site our Codes of Ethics, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, and our Committee Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and Finance committees.  

These items are also available in print to any person, without charge, upon request to: 

Nordstrom, Inc. Investor Relations

 P.O. Box 2737

 Seattle, Washington 98111-2737

 (206) 303-3200

 invrelations@nordstrom.com  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 5  
Item 1A. Risk Factors.