Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

(Dollars in millions)  

Our business faces many risks. We believe the risks described below outline the items of most concern to us. However, these are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our business operations.  

DETERIORATION OF ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

 The deterioration in economic conditions over the past two years has hurt our business in several ways. Rising unemployment, tightening of consumer credit and the decline in the housing market in the United States have all contributed to a reduction in consumer spending. This has had a significant negative impact on our revenues. We sell high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories, which many consumers consider to be discretionary items. During economic downturns, fewer customers may shop in our stores and on our Web site, and those who do shop may limit the amount of their purchases, all of which may lead to lower sales, higher markdowns and increased marketing and promotional spending in response to lower demand. The deterioration of economic conditions has also adversely affected our credit customers’ payment patterns and delinquency rates, increasing our bad debt expense. While some macroeconomic indicators suggest that a modest economic recovery has begun, key factors such as employment levels, consumer credit and housing market conditions remain weak. A sluggish economic recovery or a renewed downturn could have a significant adverse effect on our business.  

ABILITY TO RESPOND TO THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND FASHION TRENDS

 We strive to ensure the merchandise we offer remains current and compelling to our customers. We make decisions regarding inventory purchases well in advance of the season in which it will be sold. Therefore, our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends, consumer preferences and spending patterns, and to match our merchandise levels and mix to sales trends and consumer tastes, significantly impacts our sales and operating results. If we do not identify and respond to emerging trends in consumer spending and preferences quickly enough, we may be forced to sell our merchandise at higher average markdown levels and lower average margins, which could harm our business. Conversely, if we fail to purchase enough merchandise, we may lose opportunities for additional sales and damage our relationships with our customers.  

CONSUMER CREDIT

 Our credit card operations help drive sales in our stores, allow our stores to avoid third-party transaction fees and generate additional revenues by extending credit. Our credit card revenues and profitability are subject in large part to economic and market conditions that are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, interest rates, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, unemployment trends and other matters. Increases in unemployment have corresponded with rising credit card delinquencies and write-offs, which may continue in the future. Further, these economic conditions could impair our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the criteria and/or models we use to underwrite and manage our customers become less predictive of future losses, which could cause our losses to rise and have a negative impact on our results of operations.  

REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT AND FINANCIAL SYSTEM REFORMS

 Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial markets, have resulted in increased legislative and regulatory actions. The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “Credit CARD Act”) included new rules and restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. These provisions are likely to affect our credit business practices and could have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability.  

In addition, Congress and the Obama Administration are currently considering various proposals for reform of the financial system. Proposed reforms include the elimination of the thrift charter and all retailer-owned bank charters, creation of a new federal agency to supervise and enforce consumer lending laws and regulations, and expanded state authority over consumer lending. The final details of financial system reform legislation, if any, are highly uncertain at this time. Depending on the nature and extent of any reforms, our credit business could be significantly adversely affected.  

LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND SUCCESSION PLANNING

 The training and development of our future leaders is important to our long-term growth. If we do not effectively implement our strategic and business planning processes to attract, retain, train and develop future leaders, our long-term growth may suffer. We rely on the experience of our senior management, who have specific knowledge relating to us and our industry that is difficult to replace. If unexpected leadership turnover occurs without adequate succession plans, the loss of the services of any of these individuals, or any negative perceptions of our business as a result of those losses, could damage our brand image and our business.  

INFORMATION SECURITY AND PRIVACY

 The protection of our customer, employee and company data is important to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and constantly changing requirements across our business units. In addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines and lawsuits. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.  

BRAND AND REPUTATION

 We have a well-recognized brand that many consumers believe offers a high level of customer service and quality merchandise. Any significant damage to our brand or reputation could negatively impact sales, reduce employee morale and productivity, and diminish customer trust, any of which would harm our business.  

6    
STORE GROWTH PLANS

 Our five-year strategic growth plan includes opening several new full-line and Rack stores, with 30 announced store openings. The majority of these openings will occur by 2012. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. Local land use and other regulations may impact our ability to find suitable locations. We also depend on the work of our developer partners to sustain our store growth plans. Developer delays of shopping center construction, expansion or renovation projects, or developer financial difficulties, could cause the delay or cancellation of our expected store openings or remodels, or could adversely affect maintenance and leasing at some shopping centers in which we have stores.  

New store openings also involve certain risks, including constructing, furnishing and supplying a store in a timely and cost effective manner and accurately assessing the demographic or retail environment for a particular location. Our future sales at new, relocated or remodeled stores may not meet our projections, which could affect our return on investment. Performance in our new stores could also be negatively impacted if we are unable to hire employees who are able to deliver the level of service our customers have come to expect when shopping in our stores. Our inability to execute our store growth strategy in a way that generates appropriate returns on investment could affect our future growth and profitability.  

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY

 We make investments in information technology to sustain our competitive position. In 2010, we expect to spend approximately $160 on information technology operations and systems development, which is key to our growth. We must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. Excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from the technology. Targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs may result in the loss of our competitive position. In addition, if we do not maintain our current systems we may see interruptions to our business and increase our costs in order to bring our systems up to date.  

MULTI-CHANNEL STRATEGY EXECUTION

 Over the past several years, we have made changes in our business to improve the shopping experience across all channels. These changes included aligning our online merchandise offering with our full-line stores to create a seamless experience for our customers between our stores and Web site, combining the full-line stores’ and Direct merchandise organizations; providing a more focused catalog offering; and creating a shared inventory platform between Direct and our full-line stores. We plan to make additional changes in our multi-channel merchandise planning process over the next few years. If we encounter challenges associated with change management, the ability to hire and retain key personnel involved in these efforts, implementation of associated information technology, or adoption of new processes, our ability to continue to successfully execute this strategy could be adversely affected. As a result, we may not derive the expected benefits to our sales and profitability, or we may incur increased costs relative to our current projections.  

IMPACT OF COMPETITIVE MARKET FORCES

 The retail industry environment continues to change for many of our vendors and customers. In the future, our competition may partner more effectively with vendors to serve consumers’ needs. If we do not effectively respond to changes in our environment, we may see a loss of market share to competitors, declining sales and declining profitability due to higher markdowns.  

Our credit segment faces competition from large banks, and other credit card companies, some of which have substantial financial resources. Many of our competitors offer general-purpose credit card products with a variety of loyalty programs. In addition, there is intense competition for cardholders with “prime” credit ratings who make up a significant portion of our credit portfolio. If we do not effectively respond to the competitive banking and credit card environment, we could lose market share to our competitors, which would have an adverse effect on our credit business.  

CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND LIQUIDITY

 Our access to debt and equity capital, and our ability to invest capital to maximize the total returns to our shareholders, is critical to our long-term success. We utilize capital to finance our operations and working capital, make capital expenditures, manage our debt levels and return value to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. As a result of the financial crisis, global credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to obtain capital and the cost of the capital depend on financial market conditions and independent rating agencies’ short and long-term debt ratings, which are based largely on our performance as measured by credit metrics including interest coverage and leverage ratios. If our access to capital is restricted or if our cost of capital increases, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations and cash flows could be adversely affected and our long-term cost of capital could increase.  

SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTION

 The effective and efficient operation of our supply chain, including merchandise sourcing and procurement, receiving and distribution, is critical to the success of our business. Our supply chain operations may be adversely impacted by difficulties with our suppliers, such as production capacity constraints, errors in meeting merchandise specifications, including specifications dictated by consumer product safety laws, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines, or increases in manufacturing costs. Additionally, unforeseen disruptions in our supply chain due to severe weather, natural or man-made disasters, labor disputes, shipping problems, or information systems malfunction, may adversely affect our ability to deliver merchandise to our stores or our customers and could increase our costs.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  7  
RELATIONSHIPS WITH VENDORS

 Our relationships with our merchandise vendors have been a significant contributor to our past success and our position as a retailer of high-quality fashion merchandise. Some of our vendors have experienced serious cash flow problems due to the credit market crisis and economic deterioration. To address these problems, our vendors could attempt to increase their prices, alter payment terms or seek other relief, all of which could increase our costs. In some cases, they may be forced to reduce their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which could have an adverse effect on our business if we are unable to procure the desired merchandise on acceptable terms.  

We also have no guaranteed supply arrangements with our key vendors, many of whom limit the number of retail channels they use to sell their merchandise. Competition to obtain and sell this merchandise is intense. Nearly all of the brands of our top vendors are sold by competing retailers, and many of our top vendors also have their own dedicated retail stores. If one or more of our top vendors were to increase sales of merchandise through their own stores or to the stores of our competitors, or to limit or reduce our access to their merchandise, our business could be adversely affected.  

GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION OF STORES

 A significant amount of our total sales is derived from stores located on the west and east coasts, particularly California, which increases our exposure to local economic conditions, severe weather, natural disasters and other natural or man-made disruptions within these regions. Deterioration in economic conditions and consumer confidence within these regions has negatively impacted our business, including a reduction in overall sales, reduced gross margins and increased expenses, including bad debt expense. Any continued economic deterioration, severe weather patterns, natural disasters or other disruptions in these regions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business. In addition, many states in these regions are facing significant budget shortfalls, and may seek to address those shortfalls through unfavorable changes in tax laws and interpretation of existing laws which could adversely affect our results of operations.  

EMPLOYMENT LAWS AND REGULATIONS

 Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with employment laws and regulations set forth by the federal government and in each of the states and municipalities where we do business. These include laws and regulations related to wages and hours, meals and rest periods, and commissions. These laws and regulations are complex and continuously evolving, and the related enforcement is increasingly aggressive, particularly in the state of California. Significant legislative changes that impact our relationship with our workforce could increase our expenses and adversely affect our operations. Possible legislative changes include changes to an employer’s obligation to recognize collective bargaining units, the process by which collective bargaining agreements are negotiated or imposed and health care mandates. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to damage to our reputation, class action lawsuits, legal and settlement costs, disruption of our business, changes to our employment practices, and loss of customers and employees, which could result in a loss of sales, increased employment costs, low employee morale, and harm to our business and results of operations.  

REGULATORY COMPLIANCE

 Our policies and procedures are designed to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including those imposed by the SEC, NYSE, the banking industry and foreign countries. Additional legal and regulatory requirements, and the fact that foreign laws occasionally conflict with domestic laws, have increased the complexity of the regulatory environment and the cost of compliance. Failure to comply with the various regulations may result in damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, fines and penalties, increased cost of regulatory compliance and restatements of our financial statements.  

IMPACT OF PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERNS

 Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by a regional or widespread pandemic, which could cause, among other things, a decrease in consumer spending that would negatively impact our sales; staffing shortages in our stores, distribution centers, or corporate offices; supply chain disruptions; or disruptions in the operations of our merchandise vendors or property developers. Any of these effects could have a significant adverse impact on our sales, costs, reputation and long-term growth plans.  

FOREIGN CURRENCY

 We purchase a portion of our inventory from foreign suppliers whose cost to us is affected by fluctuations of their local currency against the U.S. dollar or who price their merchandise in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies may increase our cost of goods sold, and if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, our gross margins, and ultimately our earnings, would decrease.  

ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS

 We are incorporated in the state of Washington and subject to Washington state law. Some provisions of Washington state law could interfere with or restrict takeover bids or other change-in-control events affecting us. For example, one provision prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any significant business transaction with any shareholder who owns 10% or more of our common stock (an “acquiring person”) for a period of five years following the time that the shareholder became an acquiring person.  

8    
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 

None. 

Item 2. Properties.