Item 7.   Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    

(Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts)  

OVERVIEW

 Nordstrom is a fashion specialty retailer offering high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men and children. We offer a wide selection of brand name and private label merchandise. We offer our products through various channels: our ‘Nordstrom’ branded full-line stores and Web site (which we refer to as “multi-channel”), our off-price ‘Nordstrom Rack’ stores, and our ‘Jeffrey’ boutiques. Our stores are located throughout the United States. In addition, we offer our customers a loyalty program associated with a variety of payment products and services, including credit and debit cards.  

We believe our multi-channel offering is important to our success and is consistent with our commitment to customer service. Our goal is to provide a seamless integrated shopping experience to our customers whenever and however they choose to shop. With that in mind, we are continuing to make improvements to our multi-channel capabilities. In 2008, we launched the “Buy Online, Pick Up in Store” service, which allows customers to purchase merchandise online and then pick up their item(s) at a Nordstrom store on the same day. In 2009, we updated our inventory platform to create shared inventory across all of our full-line stores and our online store, allowing us to fulfill online orders from any full-line store. These enhancements have led to greater merchandise selections online, improved convenience, as well as significant improvements in our sell-through rates (the proportion of available merchandise that we are able to sell) and inventory turnover.  

Our merchandising efforts have also been a significant contributor to our recent success. By managing our inventory levels effectively during the economic downturn that began approximately two years ago, we were well positioned to increase purchases as sales improved and maintain fresh merchandise in our stores without taking excessive markdowns. Our customers have continued to respond favorably to our merchandise assortment, thereby contributing to additional sales growth and higher rates of regular-priced sales.  

Throughout 2009, we demonstrated discipline in the management of our expenses. Our model is focused on controlling our fixed expenses, while flexing our variable and performance-related expenses with our sales and earnings results. Our sales per square foot in 2009 declined to $368, consistent with our sales per square foot of $369 in 2004. However, as a result of our expense management efforts, we decreased our selling, general and administrative expenses per square foot for our Retail Stores, Direct and Other segments over the same time period, from $100 in 2004 to $94 in 2009. This flexibility in managing our business and the ability to adjust quickly to changes in trends have put us in a healthy position heading into 2010.  

The economic environment continues to have a significant impact on our customers. Consumers are cautious about spending, unemployment levels continue to be high and economic uncertainty remains. As a result of these conditions, we experienced elevated delinquency and write-off rates on our credit card portfolio. We expect unemployment levels will remain elevated during 2010.  

We recognize the importance of increasing our presence in top retail markets across the country. During 2009 we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores, relocated another, and opened 13 Nordstrom Racks. In 2010 we will continue to open full-line and Rack stores while returning to a more regular remodeling schedule of five-to-six in 2010, compared to one remodel in 2009, as we continue to pursue our long-term growth strategy.  

We entered 2009 with considerable uncertainty, including an economic downturn and a volatile retail environment. Our continued focus on improving service through our multi-channel offering, improved merchandising and disciplined inventory, expense and capital management, enabled us to adapt as our trends improved, and as a result we are well positioned going into 2010. Following a year of improving performance and with a more efficient business model, we are focused on improving execution and growing our market share. We believe that our response to the adversity of the past two years has left us better positioned financially, competitively, and most important, with our customers.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Retail Stores, Direct and Other Segments  

Summary

 Our Retail Stores segment includes our full-line, Rack and Jeffrey stores; our Direct segment includes our online store; and our Other segment includes our product development group and corporate center operations (collectively the “Retail Business”). The following table summarizes the combined sales and expenses of our Retail Business for the fiscal years ended January 30, 2010, January 31, 2009 and February 2, 2008:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1Gross profit is calculated as net sales less cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs for our Retail Business.  

16    
Retail Business Net Sales  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

NET SALES - - 2009 VS 2008

 Net sales for 2009 were approximately flat compared to 2008. The decline in multi-channel same-store sales was mostly offset by new store openings during 2009 and an increase in same-store sales for Rack.  

Our multi-channel same-store sales declined 5.0% compared to 2008 as the decrease at our full-line stores was partially offset by the strong performance of Direct. During 2009, we made continued progress on our multi-channel strategy, providing our customers with access to more of our merchandise. In the fall of 2009, we updated our inventory platform to allow for shared inventory across all of our full-line stores and our Web site, allowing us to fulfill online orders from any full-line store or from our fulfillment center. These enhancements increased sales and led to significant improvements in our sell-through rates and inventory turnover, following their implementation in the second half of the year. Our merchandising efforts also contributed to our improving multi-channel sales trends during the second half of the year. By managing our inventory levels effectively during the downturn in sales over the past two years, we had the flexibility to increase purchases as sales improved and maintain current merchandise in our stores without taking excessive markdowns. As a result, our percentage of regular price sales improved measurably over the course of the year.  

Same-store sales for our full-line stores decreased 7.2% compared to the same period last year. Highlights for the year included both women’s shoes and accessories. Women’s shoes benefited from sales of high-end shoes and boots, while fashion jewelry led accessories. Men’s clothing, particularly young contemporary wear and men’s furnishings, remained challenging throughout the year. This continues the trend we experienced last year as sales of men’s clothing declined in conjunction with economic deterioration. The South and Mid-Atlantic regions were the top performing geographic areas for full-line stores. California and the Northwest had same-store sales below the full-line store average in 2009, although we saw improvements in both regions during the latter part of the year.  

Direct’s net sales increased 14.5% for the year, with results driven by the accessories, women’s apparel and women’s shoes categories. Accessories benefited from the sales of handbags and fashion jewelry while women’s apparel was led by special occasion dresses. Junior footwear and high-end shoes drove the improvement in women’s shoes. The growth in our Direct business was helped by our investments in technology and systems to better align our merchandise offering and improve the online shopping experience.  

Rack had its eighth consecutive year of positive sales growth with a same-store sales increase of 2.5% for the year. The shoes and women’s apparel categories led the positive performance for the year. Junior and active footwear drove shoes while women’s apparel benefited from knitwear and blouses.  

During 2009 we opened three full-line and thirteen Rack stores. These stores represent 2.6% of our total net sales for 2009, and increased our gross square footage by 4.1% during 2009.  

NET SALES - - 2008 VS 2007

 Net sales declined 6.3% in 2008 compared to 2007. The decrease was due to same-store sales declines in our full-line stores, partially offset by increases in same-store sales for Rack and Direct, as well as new store openings.  

Same-store sales for our full-line stores decreased 12.4% compared to the same period in 2007 primarily as a result of the economic downturn. The largest same-store sales decreases came in women’s apparel and men’s apparel. Women’s apparel continued to experience a market-wide deterioration and we saw a decline in men’s apparel correspond to the economic downturn, particularly during the fourth quarter. Regionally, business trends were most challenging in markets undergoing the largest housing price corrections. California was the most challenging region throughout 2008, with same-store sales below the full-line store average. All other regions were above the same-store sales average for full-line stores.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 17  
Direct net sales increased 8.4% in 2008, driven by our efforts to better align our merchandise offering and experience with our full-line stores. Our new “Buy Online, Pick Up in Store” service was launched in 2008 and proved to be a convenient and valued service for our customers. The accessories, women’s apparel and kids’ merchandise categories led the growth in our Direct sales in 2008.  

Rack same-store sales increased 3.1% for the year in 2008. The accessories category, led by designer handbags, and men’s apparel category, led by premium denim, drove this growth. All regions contributed to the positive same-store sales results.  

During 2008 we opened eight full-line and six Rack stores. These stores represented 3.3% of our total net sales for fiscal 2008, and increased our gross square footage by 6.7% during 2008.  

SAME-STORE SALES OUTLOOK - 2010

 We expect 2010 same-store sales to increase approximately 2% to 4%. The same-store sales increase in the first half of 2010 is expected to be approximately 300 basis points higher than in the second half of 2010.  

As of March 19, 2010, we have opened three Rack stores. In total, we plan to open three full-line stores, relocate one full-line store and open fourteen additional Rack stores during the remainder of 2010. This will increase retail square footage by approximately 4.5%.  

Retail Business Gross Profit  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1Gross profit is calculated as net sales less Retail Business cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs.

 2Gross profit rate is calculated as gross profit divided by net sales.

 3Inventory turnover rate is calculated as annual cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments) divided by 4-quarter average inventory.  

GROSS PROFIT - 2009 VS 2008

 Retail gross profit increased $80 from last year while our gross profit rate improved 101 basis points compared with the same period in 2008. Retail gross profit consists of merchandise margin offset by buying and occupancy costs. The improvement for the year was driven by overall improvement in our merchandise margin, particularly in the second half of the year. The latter half of 2008 was highly promotional among retailers, meaning many competitors took steep markdowns and/or offered special events or incentives to attract customers, as sales declined. We were able to be less promotional and reduce markdowns during 2009, particularly during the second half of the year, by aligning inventory with sales trends. All major merchandise categories at our full-line stores contributed to this improvement over 2008. The improvement in our merchandise margin was offset by an increase in our buying and occupancy costs. Buying and occupancy costs as a percentage of sales increased 51 basis points. This increase was primarily driven by incentives that were a result of strong company performance relative to our plans for 2009.  

Our inventory turnover rate increased 4.0% over last year while our average inventory per square foot decreased 10.3%. Our merchandising efforts have enabled us to manage inventory levels consistent with sales trends and maintain fresh merchandise in our stores. Combined with the increased sell-through resulting from our improved multi-channel inventory capabilities, these efforts led to a significant increase in our inventory turnover rate.  

GROSS PROFIT - 2008 VS 2007

 Retail gross profit in 2008 decreased $444 from 2007 while our gross profit rate declined 280 basis points. The deterioration in 2008 was driven primarily by a decrease in our merchandise margin rate as we utilized markdowns to respond to slower sales and a more promotional environment. All major merchandise categories at our full-line stores contributed to this decrease. Our buying and occupancy costs as a percentage of sales increased 76 basis points as many of these costs were fixed relative to the sales decline.  

Our inventory turnover rate improved slightly in 2008 while our average inventory per square foot decreased 7.0%. Our merchants’ efforts to align inventory levels to lower demand resulted in the improvement in our inventory turnover rate and our lower inventory per square foot. Our objective was to match the change in inventory per square foot, which declined 7.0% on average, with our same-store sales rate, which declined 9.0% for the year.  

GROSS PROFIT OUTLOOK - 2010

 In 2010, we expect a 20 to 60 basis point improvement in our total company gross profit rate, which includes both our Retail gross profit and our cost of loyalty points within our Credit segment. We expect greater improvement in the first half of the year when compared to 2009, when weaker sales trends in the first and second quarters increased markdown pressure. The improvement will be partially offset by additional occupancy expense for the three new full-line and seventeen new Rack stores in 2010.  

Retailers do not uniformly record the costs of buying and occupancy and supply chain operations (freight, purchasing, receiving, distribution, etc.) between gross profit and selling, general and administrative expense. As such, our gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses and rates may not be comparable to other retailers’ expenses and rates.  

18    
Retail Business Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1Selling, general and administrative rate is calculated as selling, general and administrative expenses for our Retail Business as a percentage of net sales.  

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES - 2009 VS 2008

 Our Retail Business selling, general and administrative expenses (“Retail SG&A”) increased $6 due to increased performance-related incentives, partially offset by lower variable expenses and cost savings resulting from controlling our fixed costs. We increased our provision for performance-related expense as the year progressed to reflect the improved performance of our overall business relative to our plan. This reflects our ‘pay for performance’ approach to compensation. Our variable expenses decreased in conjunction with lower sales volume, and we worked diligently to maintain our discipline in managing fixed costs. During 2009, we opened three full-line stores and thirteen Rack stores, which contributed $41 of additional expenses. Although we opened more stores compared to 2008, the majority were Rack stores, which incur lower expenses than a full-line store. These drivers led our Retail SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales to be approximately flat versus last year.  

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES - 2008 VS 2007

 Our SG&A expenses for our Retail Business decreased $58 due to lower variable expenses as well as cost savings resulting from our focus on controlling fixed expenses, partially offset by the additional expenses related to our new stores. During 2008, we opened eight full-line stores and six Rack stores, which contributed $72 of additional expenses. Our Retail SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 94 basis points. The increase as a percentage of net sales was due to the fixed nature of many of our selling, general and administrative expenses and the impact of declining sales.  

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES OUTLOOK - 2010

 In 2010, our Retail SG&A dollars are expected to increase $125 to $175, while our Retail SG&A expenses as a percentage of net sales will decrease 10 to 20 basis points. The majority of this increase relates to our expectations for increased variable expenses consistent with the planned increase in sales, as well as approximately $50 to $60 of additional selling, general and administrative expenses from new stores to be opened during 2010.  

Gain on Sale of Façonnable

 During the third quarter of 2007, we completed the sale of the Façonnable business in exchange for cash of $216, net of transaction costs, and realized a gain on sale of $34. The impact to reported earnings per diluted share for 2007 was $0.09, net of tax of $13.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 19  
Credit Segment  

The Nordstrom credit card products are designed to strengthen customer relationships and grow retail sales by providing valuable services, loyalty benefits and payment products. We believe that owning our credit card business allows us to fully integrate our rewards program with our retail stores and provide better service to our customers, thus deepening our relationship with them and driving greater customer loyalty. Cardholders can participate in the Nordstrom Fashion Rewards® program, through which customers accumulate points based on their level of spending (generally two points per dollar spent at Nordstrom and one point per dollar spent outside of Nordstrom). Upon reaching two thousand points, customers receive twenty dollars in Nordstrom Notes®, which can be redeemed for goods or services in our stores. As customers increase their level of spending they receive additional benefits, including rewards such as complimentary shipping and alterations in our retail stores. Our cardholders tend to visit our stores more frequently and spend more with us than non-cardholders. We believe the Fashion Rewards program, including these additional rewards, helps drive sales in our Retail Stores and Direct segments.  

The table below illustrates a detailed view of the operational results of our Credit segment, consistent with the segment disclosure provided in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. In order to view the economic contribution of our credit card program, the following items are also included in the table below: 

   •   Intercompany merchant fees represent the estimated intercompany income of our credit business from the usage of our cards in the Retail Stores and Direct segments. To encourage the use of Nordstrom cards in our stores, the Credit segment does not charge the Retail Stores and Direct segments an intercompany interchange merchant fee. On a consolidated basis, we avoid costs that would be incurred if our customers used third-party cards.    

   •   During 2007, we combined our Nordstrom private label credit card and Nordstrom VISA credit card programs into one securitization program. At that time the Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables were brought on-balance sheet. While the underlying economics of the business did not change (Nordstrom has always owned 100% of its Credit segment), the accounting for this business segment did change. For comparability between years, off-balance sheet income (expense), net (credit card revenues, net of bad debt and interest expense) is shown for 2007.    

Interest expense is assigned to the Credit segment in proportion to the amount of estimated capital needed to fund our credit card receivables, which assumes a mix of 80% debt and 20% equity. The average accounts receivable investment metric included in the following table represents our best estimate of the amount of capital for our credit card program that is financed by equity. As a means of assigning a comparable cost of capital for our credit card business, we believe it is important to maintain a capital structure similar to other financial institutions. Based on our research, debt as a percentage of credit card receivables for other credit card companies ranges from 70% to 90%. We believe that debt equal to 80% of our credit card receivables is appropriate given our overall capital structure goals.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1In 2007, this includes off-balance sheet finance charges and other income of $22, off-balance sheet interest expense of $6, and off-balance sheet bad debt expense of $7.  

Net Credit Card Income

 Credit card revenues include finance charges, interchange fees, late fees and other fees. Interchange fees are earned from the use of Nordstrom VISA credit cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom.  

Credit card revenues increased to $370 in 2009 compared with $302 in 2008 due to an increase in our annual percentage rate terms implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008, growth in our accounts receivable balance and increased finance charges and late fees associated with increased delinquencies during the economic downturn. The increase in credit card revenues from $253 in 2007 to $302 in 2008 was in part due to the Nordstrom VISA portfolio being on-balance sheet for a full year in fiscal 2008 compared to only three quarters in fiscal 2007. The increase was also due to portfolio growth and the change in our credit card pricing terms implemented in the fourth quarter of 2008, partially offset by a significant reduction in the average prime rate.  

20    
In 2010, credit card revenues are expected to increase $35 to $45, due to moderate growth in our accounts receivable.  

In May 2009, the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (the “Credit CARD Act”) was passed. In January 2010, final rules implementing portions of the Credit CARD Act were issued, including new restrictions on credit card pricing, finance charges and fees, customer billing practices and payment application. These rules are requiring us to make changes to our credit card business practices and systems. We have completed and implemented the necessary changes and new procedures to enable compliance with those rules that had a mandatory effective date of February 22, 2010. However, the Credit CARD Act’s full impact on our business is unknown at this time. Additional proposed rules implementing other portions of the Credit CARD Act, effective in August 2010, were published in early March, and interpretations of the new and proposed rules continue to emerge. Depending on the nature and extent of the full impact from these rules, any interpretations or additional rules, the practices, revenues and profitability of our credit business could be adversely affected.  

Interest expense decreased to $41 in 2009 from $50 in 2008 and $64 in 2007. These year-over-year decreases were due to declining variable interest rates, partially offset by higher average borrowings.  

Credit Segment Cost of Sales and Related Buying and Occupancy Costs

 Cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs, which includes the estimated cost of Nordstrom Notes that will be issued and redeemed under our Fashion Rewards program, increased to $55 in 2009 compared with $50 in 2008. The increase was primarily due to increased use of Nordstrom credit cards, resulting in additional expense related to the Fashion Rewards program. Cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs of $50 in 2008 increased slightly from $47 in 2007 due to growth in volume.  

Credit Segment Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

 Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Credit segment are made up of operational and marketing expenses and bad debt. These expenses are summarized in the following table:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Operational and marketing expenses are incurred to support and service our credit card products and the related rewards programs, and are included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of earnings. Operational and marketing expense remained relatively constant at $105 in 2009 compared with $101 in 2008. This reflects expenses that are relatively fixed when compared to portfolio growth and our continued focus on controlling expenses. The increase to $101 in 2008 compared with $91 in 2007 was due to additional marketing expenses as a result of an increase in promotions related to our loyalty program in 2008.  

Bad debt expense increased to $251 in 2009 from $173 in 2008 due to increased write-offs reflecting consumer credit trends.  

The following table illustrates the allowance for doubtful accounts activity for the past three fiscal years:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 In 2007, the one-time transitional charge-offs on the Nordstrom VISA receivables of $21 are included in bad debt expense in selling, general and administrative expenses. These charge-offs represent actual write-offs on the Nordstrom VISA credit card portfolio during the eight-month transitional period and are not included in the allowance for doubtful accounts activity in the table above for 2007. 

2 Calculated as net write-offs for the combined Nordstrom private label and Nordstrom VISA portfolio as a percentage of average receivables, including average off-balance sheet receivables in 2007 of $182.  

Delinquency rates and write-offs ran at elevated levels throughout 2009. As of January 30, 2010, our delinquency rate was 5.3%, an increase from 3.7% in 2008 and 2.5% in 2007. Write-offs increased $91 to $199, or 9.5% of average receivables in 2009 compared with $108, or 5.6% of average receivables in 2008. Our write-offs have a strong long-term correlation with national unemployment rates, and this trend continued during 2009 as U.S. unemployment increased from 7.6% to 9.7%. In California, unemployment rates in 2009 trended above the national unemployment rate. California continues to experience particular weakness relative to our other geographic regions and accounts for approximately 50% of our total write-offs. We are currently planning our business assuming an average unemployment rate of approximately 10.5% in 2010. In light of this economic 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 21  
environment and based on our delinquency and write-off trends, we increased our allowance for doubtful accounts by $52 to $190 in 2009 compared with an increase of $65 to $138 in 2008.  

We anticipate that 2010 selling, general and administrative expenses for our Credit segment will decrease by $10 to $25, primarily due to lower bad debt expense relative to 2009 as growth in the unemployment rate and growth in our associated write-offs slows down.  

Total Company Results  

Interest Expense, Net  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Interest expense, net increased $7 in 2009 compared with 2008 due to higher average debt levels resulting from the $400 debt offering in the second quarter of 2009, partially offset by the $250 senior notes which matured in January 2009 and the impact of declining variable interest rates. 

Interest expense, net increased $57 in 2008 compared with 2007 due to higher average debt levels resulting from the $1,000 debt offering in the fourth quarter of 2007, as well as the $850 securitization transaction in May 2007. 

We anticipate interest expense, net to decrease by $15 to $25 in 2010 due to lower debt levels, reductions in interest rates and lower borrowing facility fees. 

Income Tax Expense 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The increase in our income tax expense in 2009 compared with 2008 was driven by the increase in our earnings before income taxes, while the decline in income tax expense in 2008 compared with 2007 correlated with the decline in earnings before income taxes.  

The following table illustrates the components of our effective tax rate for 2009, 2008 and 2007:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In 2009 and 2008, our effective tax rate was impacted by adjustments related to our deferred tax assets primarily driven by the closure of several tax years under audit, as well as permanent items related to investment valuation. These adjustments reduced our effective tax rate by 2.4% and 1.2% in 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

We anticipate our effective tax rate to be approximately 39.0% in 2010.  

Net Earnings and Earnings per Diluted Share  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In 2009, net earnings increased 9.9% and earnings per diluted share increased $0.18 primarily as a result of improved gross profit and continued expense performance, partially offset by increased performance-related expenses related to our strong operating results relative to our plan and increased bad debt expense.  

In 2008, net earnings decreased 43.9% and earnings per diluted share decreased 36.5% as a result of lower sales volume, increased markdowns and higher bad debt expense, partially offset by decreased variable costs and reductions in fixed expenses. The decline in earnings per share was also partially offset by the impact of share repurchases, which caused our weighted average shares outstanding to decrease in 2008 compared with 2007.  

We expect our earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $2.35 to $2.55 in 2010.  

22    
Fourth Quarter Results  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Our fourth quarter performance reflected continued improvement in our sales and gross margin trends that we experienced throughout the year, particularly in the second half. Earnings per diluted share were $0.77 for the quarter ended January 30, 2010 compared to $0.31 for the quarter ended January 31, 2009. Net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2009 were $172 compared with $68 in 2008.  

NET SALES

 Total sales for the quarter increased 10.3% to $2,539 while same-store sales improved 6.9%. Multi-channel same-store sales increased 7.1%, with full-line same-store sales increasing 3.9% and Direct sales increasing 32.1%. Our multi-channel results benefited this year from both the comparison to a difficult period last year, as well as our shared inventory platform which enables online orders to be fulfilled from our full-line stores.  

Results in full-line stores improved, as same-store sales increased 3.9% for the quarter. Our top performing categories were women’s better apparel, women’s shoes, and accessories. Women’s better apparel benefited primarily from sweaters. Women’s shoes were led by high-end shoes and junior shoes, while jewelry drove the increase in accessories. The Midwest, South and Northwest regions were the top performing geographic regions for full-line stores relative to the fourth quarter of 2008.  

Net sales for the Direct segment increased 32.1%, led by the performance of women’s shoes and apparel. Shoes was driven by junior shoes and high-end footwear, while coats and dresses performed well in women’s apparel.  

Rack same-store sales increased 4.6% for the fourth quarter. Shoes, driven by juniors and active footwear, and women’s clothing, driven by denim and knit tops, were the leading categories for Rack.  

GROSS PROFIT

 Our gross profit rate increased 527 basis points to 37.3% from 32.0% last year. The improvement was mainly driven by merchandise margin as a percentage of net sales, partially offset by the impact of higher performance-related expenses included in buying and occupancy. Markdowns improved in the fourth quarter of 2009 when compared with the highly promotional fourth quarter experienced in 2008. We were effective in our management of inventory and ended the year with an inventory turn of 5.4, the highest in recent company history. We also ended the quarter with inventory per square foot down 4.1% from the fourth quarter of 2008.  

SELLING, GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

 Selling, general and administrative dollars for our Retail Business increased $56 compared to last year’s fourth quarter. The increase was largely driven by increased performance-related expenses due to our strong performance relative to our plan and higher variable expenses as a result of the improvement in sales. Our new store expenses in the fourth quarter of 2009 were $13, which partially offset fixed expense savings during the quarter. These drivers contributed to the 11 basis point increase in Retail Business selling, general and administrative expenses.  

In the fourth quarter, selling, general and administrative expenses for our credit segment were $106, up from $90 in 2008. A majority of the increase was driven by higher bad debt expense from increased write-offs associated with higher unemployment.  

For further information on our quarterly results in 2009 and 2008, refer to Note 15 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 23  
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) (Non-GAAP financial measure) 

We define Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) as follows: 

      ROIC    =    Net Operating Profit After Taxes (NOPAT)      

           Average Invested Capital          

We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating our operating performance for the periods presented. When read in conjunction with our net earnings and total assets and compared to return on assets, it provides investors with a useful tool to evaluate our ongoing operations and our management of assets from period to period. ROIC is one of our key financial metrics, and we also incorporate it into our executive incentive measures. Our research has shown that, historically, overall performance as measured by ROIC correlates directly to shareholders’ return over the long term. For the 12 fiscal months ended January 30, 2010, our ROIC increased to 12.1% compared to 11.6% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 31, 2009. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP, should not be considered a substitute for return on assets, net earnings or total assets as determined in accordance with GAAP, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The closest GAAP measure is return on assets, which increased slightly to 7.1% from 7.0% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 30, 2010 compared to the 12 fiscal months ended January 31, 2009. The following is a reconciliation of return on assets to ROIC:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1Depreciation based upon estimated asset base of capitalized operating leases as described in footnote 5 below.

 2Based upon our effective tax rate multiplied by the net operating profit for the fiscal years ended January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009.

 3Based upon the trailing 12-month average.

 4Based upon the trailing 12-month average for accounts payable, accrued salaries, wages and related benefits, and other current liabilities.

 5Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base, which is calculated as the trailing 12 months rent expense multiplied by 8.  

Our ROIC increased primarily due to an increase in our earnings before interest and income taxes compared to the prior year, offset by an increase in our average invested capital attributable primarily to growth in cash and cash equivalents.  

24    
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

We maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to maintain appropriate levels of short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows and available credit facilities are sufficient to finance our cash requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.  

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, strengthen our financial position and maintain flexibility for future strategic initiatives. We continuously assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and future investments or acquisitions. We believe our existing cash on-hand, operating cash flows, available credit facilities and potential future borrowings will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives.  

For the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010, cash and cash equivalents increased by $723 to $795, primarily due to cash provided by operations of $1,251, partially offset by $360 of capital expenditures; and $182 of purchases, net of payments, made by our customers for third-party merchandise and services using Nordstrom VISA credit cards. Additionally, we received proceeds from long-term borrowings of $399, repaid commercial paper and long-term borrowings totaling $300, and paid cash dividends of $139.  

Operating Activities

 Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,251 in 2009 and $848 in 2008. The majority of our operating cash inflows are related to sales to our customers, including the collection of accounts receivable. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our inventory vendors (net of vendor allowances), payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits, and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short and long-term borrowings.  

The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2009 compared with 2008 was due to working capital initiatives and improved earnings. The positive impact from the change in accrued salaries, wages and related benefits primarily reflects the increase in performance-related expenses as our overall results improved relative to our plans in 2009 that will be paid in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010.  

In 2010, although we expect net earnings to increase, we expect our operating cash flows to decline. This is a result of increases in working capital to support sales growth and payment of performance-related expenses that were included in accrued salaries, wages and related benefits at the end of 2009.  

Investing Activities

 Net cash used in investing activities was $541 in 2009 and $792 in 2008. Our investing cash flows primarily consist of capital expenditures and, beginning in the second quarter of 2007 (when we brought our Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables on-balance sheet), customer purchases (net of payments) for goods and services outside of Nordstrom using the Nordstrom VISA credit cards.  

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

 Our capital expenditures over the last three years totaled $1,424, with $360 in 2009, $563 in 2008 and $501 in 2007. Compared with 2008, capital expenditures declined as we opened fewer full-line stores in 2009. While we opened more Rack stores in 2009 compared with 2008, the investment to open a Rack store is significantly less than a full-line store. Additionally, we reduced the number of full-line store remodels in 2009 compared with 2008.  

Our capital expenditures included investments in new store openings and relocations, major and minor remodels, and information technology improvements. We also received property incentives from our developers of $96 in 2009, $119 in 2008 and $58 in 2007. These incentives are included in our cash provided by operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows, however operationally we view these as an offset to our capital expenditures. Our capital expenditure percentage, net of property incentives, for the last three years by category are summarized in the following table:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 25   
The following table summarizes our store count and square footage activity during 2009:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In 2009 we opened three full-line stores and opened thirteen Rack stores. Together these openings increased our gross square footage by 4.1%.  

To date in 2010, we have opened three Rack stores. During the remainder of 2010, we anticipate opening three full-line stores, relocating one full-line store and opening fourteen additional Rack stores.  

We expect that our capital expenditures (net of property incentives) will be approximately $2,100 over the next five years, with approximately $325 to $375 in 2010. Over these five years, we plan to use 37% of this investment to build new and relocated stores, 41% on remodels (major and minor), 11% on information technology and 11% for other projects. Our current five-year plans include 28 new stores announced through 2012, and two announced with dates to be determined, which represents a 9% increase in square footage. Almost one third of these stores will be in the South. We believe that we have the capacity for additional capital investments should opportunities arise.  

CHANGE IN CREDIT CARD RECEIVABLES ORIGINATED AT THIRD PARTIES  

The Nordstrom VISA credit cards allow our customers to make purchases at merchants outside of Nordstrom and accumulate points for our Nordstrom Fashion Rewards®. In 2009, we experienced a decrease in third party purchases made by our customers using their Nordstrom VISA credit cards. This decrease was driven by reductions in general consumer spending in response to economic conditions during 2009. This caused a decrease in cash used for accounts receivable originating at third parties, which was $182 in 2009 compared with $232 in 2008. 

Financing Activities  

Our net cash provided by financing activities was $13 in 2009 compared with $342 used in financing activities in 2008. Our financing activities include our short-term and long-term borrowing activity, dividends paid, and repurchases of common stock. 

SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM BORROWING ACTIVITY

 During 2009, we issued $400 of senior unsecured notes at 6.75% due June 2014. After deducting the original issue discount, underwriting fees and other expenses of $4, net proceeds from the offering were $396. These net borrowings were partially offset by the repayment of $275 in commercial paper borrowings and regularly scheduled principal payments of $25 on other long term borrowings.  

During the year, we entered into interest rate swap agreements (collectively, the “swap”) to manage the interest rate risk associated with our fixed-rate borrowings. Our swap transaction has a $650 notional amount and matures in 2018. Under the swap, we receive a fixed rate of 6.25% and pay a variable rate based on one month LIBOR plus a margin of 2.9% (3.1% at January 30, 2010).  

DIVIDENDS  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In 2009, we paid dividends of $0.64 per share, which was consistent with our dividend payments for 2008. This followed twelve consecutive years of annual dividend increases. In determining the amount of dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, and balance the dividend payment with our operating performance and capital resources. For the dividend yield, which is calculated as our dividends per share divided by our stock price, we plan to target a 1.0% to 1.5% long-term yield. We will balance any potential future dividend changes with our operating performance and available capital resources.  

In February 2010, we declared a first quarter dividend of $0.16 per share, which is consistent with 2009.  

SHARE REPURCHASES

 Our reported results for 2008 include $264 in share repurchases. During 2008, we repurchased 6.9 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $238, at an average price per share of $34.29. In addition, our results for the period include the settlement of $26 in repurchases initiated in the fourth quarter of 2007. In August 2007 our Board of Directors authorized a $1,500 share repurchase program and in November 2007 authorized an additional $1,000 for share repurchases, bringing the total program to $2,500. We suspended our share repurchase program in September 2008, with $1,126 of remaining capacity. During 2009 we did not repurchase shares. The share repurchase program expired in August 2009. The actual amount and timing of any future share repurchases will be subject to market conditions, approval by our Board of Directors, and applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules.  

26   
Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP financial measure)  

We define Free Cash Flow as:  

Free Cash Flow = Net Cash Provided By Operating Activities – Capital Expenditures – Change in Credit Card Receivables Originated at Third Parties – Cash Dividends Paid + Increase in Cash Book Overdrafts  

Free cash flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and we believe that our cash levels are more appropriately analyzed using this measure. Free cash flow is not a measure of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for operating cash flows as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, free cash flow does have limitations:  

   •   Free cash flow does not necessarily represent funds available for discretionary use and is not necessarily a measure of our ability to fund our cash needs; and  

   •   Other companies in our industry may calculate free cash flow differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.    

To compensate for these limitations, we analyze free cash flow in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows. The closest GAAP measure is net cash provided by operating activities, which was $1,251 and $848 for the 12 months ended January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009. The following is a reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Credit Capacity and Commitments

 As of January 30, 2010, we had total short-term borrowing capacity available for general corporate purposes of $950. Of the total capacity, we had $650 under our commercial paper program, which is backed by our unsecured revolving credit facility and $300 under our Variable Funding Note facility (“2007-A VFN”).  

During 2009, we entered into a new unsecured revolving credit facility (the “revolver”) with a capacity of $650. This revolver replaced our previously existing $650 unsecured line of credit, which was scheduled to expire in November 2010. The revolver, which expires in August 2012, is available for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. Under the terms of the agreement, we pay a variable rate of interest and a facility fee based on our debt rating. Under the revolver we have the option to increase the revolving commitment by up to $100, to a total of $750, provided that we obtain written consent from the lenders who choose to increase their commitment.  

Our $650 commercial paper program allows us to use the proceeds to fund share repurchases as well as operating cash requirements. Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing borrowing capacity under our revolver by an amount equal to the principal amount of commercial paper. As of January 30, 2010 we had no outstanding issuances under our $650 commercial paper program and no outstanding borrowings under our revolver.  

During 2009, we renewed our 2007-A VFN. The 2007-A VFN has a capacity of $300 and matures in January 2011. The 2007-A VFN is backed by substantially all of the Nordstrom private label card receivables and a 90% interest in the co-branded Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables. Borrowings under the 2007-A VFN incur interest based upon the cost of commercial paper issued by a third-party bank conduit plus specified fees. We pay a commitment fee for the notes based on the size of the commitment. Under the renewed 2007-A VFN, we have the option to reduce the total capacity or, provided that written consent is obtained from each of the parties to the Note Purchase Agreement, the facility contains the option to increase the total capacity. As of January 30, 2010, we had no outstanding issuances against this facility.  

Our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb, also maintains a variable funding facility with a short-term credit capacity of $100. This facility is backed by the remaining 10% interest in the Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables and is available, if needed, to provide liquidity support to Nordstrom fsb. At the end of 2009 and 2008, Nordstrom fsb had no outstanding borrowings under this facility. Borrowings under the facility incur interest based upon the cost of commercial paper issued by the third-party bank conduit plus specified fees.  

We maintain import and standby letters of credit to facilitate international payments. As of January 30, 2010, we have $10 available under an import letter of credit, with $5 outstanding. We additionally hold a $15 standby letter of credit, with $12 outstanding under this facility at the end of the year.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 27   
We currently have an automatic shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Under the terms of the registration statement, and subject to the filing of certain post-effective amendments, we are authorized to issue an unlimited principal amount of debt securities.  

Our next debt maturity is a $350 securitized note due in April 2010. Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, we will make monthly cash deposits into a restricted account until the note is due in accordance with the debt agreement. We will continue to monitor the credit markets and our potential financing needs in order to ensure we have adequate cash on hand to pay this debt when it becomes due. We expect to retire the $350 securitized note with available cash when it matures.  

Debt Covenants

 Our $650 unsecured line of credit requires that we maintain a leverage ratio of not greater than four times Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR, and a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least two times.  

The fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as:  

EBITDAR less gross capital expenditures

 Interest expense, net + rent expense  

As of January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009 we were in compliance with these covenants. We will continue to monitor these covenants to ensure that we make any necessary adjustments to our plans and believe that we will remain in compliance with these covenants during 2010. See additional disclosure of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR on the following page.  

The following table shows our credit ratings at the date of this report:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

These ratings could change depending on our performance and other factors. Our $100 variable funding facility can be cancelled or not renewed if our debt ratings fall below Standard and Poor’s BB+ rating or Moody’s Ba1 rating. Our other outstanding debt is not subject to termination or interest rate adjustments based on changes in our credit ratings. We are currently three ratings above the minimum for our Standard and Poor’s covenant requirements, and two ratings above the minimum for our Moody’s covenant requirements.  

28   
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)  

We define Adjusted Debt to Earnings before Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and Rent (“EBITDAR”) as follows:  

 Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR =    Adjusted Debt  

     EBITDAR     

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our current goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment grade credit rating as well as operate with an efficient capital structure for our size, growth plans and industry. Investment grade credit ratings are important to maintaining access to a variety of short-term and long-term sources of funding, and we rely on these funding sources to continue to grow our business. We believe a higher ratio, among other factors, could result in rating agency downgrades. In contrast, we believe a lower ratio would result in a higher cost of capital and could negatively impact shareholder returns. As of both January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.5.  

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for debt to net earnings, net earnings or debt as determined in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR does have limitations:  

   •   Adjusted Debt is not exact, but rather our best estimate of the total company debt we would hold if we had purchased the property and issued debt associated with our operating leases;  

   •   EBITDAR does not reflect our cash expenditures, or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments, including leases, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt; and  

   •   Other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR differently than we do, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure.    

To compensate for these limitations, we analyze Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR in conjunction with other GAAP financial and performance measures impacting liquidity, including operating cash flows, capital spending and net earnings. The closest GAAP measure is debt to net earnings, which was 5.9 and 6.3 for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following is a reconciliation of debt to net earnings and Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1The components of adjusted debt are as of the end of 2009 and 2008, while the components of EBITDAR are for the 12 months ended January 30, 2010 and January 31, 2009.  

2Debt included $275 of commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of January 31, 2009. There were no outstanding commercial paper borrowings as of January 30, 2010. 

3The multiple of eight times rent expense used to calculate adjusted debt is our best estimate of the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or if we had purchased the property. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 29   
Contractual Obligations

 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of January 30, 2010. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $1,539 as of January 30, 2010, payable over the remaining life of the debts.  

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and general liability insurance reserves and postretirement benefits. The repayment amounts presented above were estimated based on historical payment trends. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above. Also excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $48, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash payments for these liabilities.  

Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services and capital expenditure commitments.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

 The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we believe are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures that follow.  

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

 Our allowance for doubtful accounts represents our best estimate of the losses inherent in our Nordstrom private label card and Nordstrom VISA credit card receivables as of the balance sheet date. We evaluate the collectability of our accounts receivable based on several factors, including historical trends of aging of accounts, write-off experience and expectations of future performance, including trends in unemployment rates. We recognize finance charges on delinquent accounts until the account is written off. We write off credit card loans when accounts are, at a minimum, 151 days contractually delinquent. Accounts relating to cardholder bankruptcies, cardholder deaths and fraudulent transactions are written off earlier.  

Management believes the allowance for doubtful accounts is adequate to cover anticipated losses in our credit card accounts receivable under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the factors mentioned above or in general economic conditions could materially change these expectations. Recent increases in unemployment and associated delinquency and write-off trends have prompted us to record significant increases to our allowance for doubtful accounts, which increased from $138 at January 31, 2009 to $190 at January 30, 2010. A 10% change in our allowance for doubtful accounts would have affected net earnings by $12 for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010.  

Revenue Recognition

 We record sales net of estimated returns and we exclude sales taxes. We recognize revenue from sales at our retail stores at the point of sale. Revenue from our online and catalog sales includes shipping revenue and is recognized upon estimated receipt by the customer. We estimate customer merchandise returns based on historical return patterns and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly.  

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, there is a possibility that actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of our sales return reserve. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had a $5 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 30, 2010.  

30   
Inventory

 Our merchandise inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market value using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories and the resulting gross margins are determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margin. Among others, the significant estimates used in inventory valuation are obsolescence and shrinkage.  

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Shrinkage is estimated as a percentage of net sales for the period from the most recent semi-annual inventory count based on historical shrinkage results. Therefore, our obsolescence reserve and shrinkage percentage contain uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.  

We do not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence and shrinkage reserves. A 10% change in the obsolescence reserve or our shrink percentage would not have a material effect on our net earnings.  

Income Taxes

 We calculate income taxes using the asset and liability approach. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between the financial statement carrying amounts and respective tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which we expect those temporary differences to reverse.  

We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, we determine that some portion of the tax benefit will not be realized. In the past three years we have not recorded any valuation allowance related to our deferred tax assets.  

In addition, we regularly evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances and information available to us. If we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained, we recognize a benefit at the largest amount which we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our unrecognized tax benefit was $43 as of January 30, 2010 and $28 as of January 31, 2009.  

Deferred tax asset valuation allowances and unrecognized tax benefits require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits, and our particular facts and circumstances. Also, as audits are completed or statutes of limitations lapse, it may be necessary to record adjustments to our taxes payable, deferred tax assets, tax reserves or income tax expense. Such adjustments reduced our effective income tax rate by 1.8 percentage points in 2009 and 3.2 percentage points in 2008.  

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. We do not expect any of these pronouncements to have a material effect on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources as they primarily address financial statement disclosures.  

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries 31   
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.