Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Operations contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as indicative of future operations. 

Executive Summary 

Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation’s largest publicly-traded owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had interests in 1915 properties, totaling approximately 176.9 million square feet of GLA located in 45 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Peru. 

The Company is self-administered and self-managed through present management, which has owned and managed neighborhood and community shopping centers for over 50 years. The executive officers are engaged in the day-to-day management and operation of real estate exclusively with the Company, with nearly all operating functions, including leasing, asset management, maintenance, construction, legal, finance and accounting, administered by the Company. 

The Company’s vision is to be the premier owner and operator of retail shopping centers with its core business operations focusing on owning and operating neighborhood and community shopping centers through equity investments in North America. This vision will entail a shift away from certain non-strategic assets that the Company currently holds. These investments include non-retail preferred equity investments, marketable securities, mortgages on non-retail properties and several urban mixed-use properties. The Company’s plan is to sell certain non-strategic assets and investments. The Company realizes that the sale of these assets will be over a period of time given the current unfavorable market conditions. In order to execute the Company’s vision, the Company’s strategy is to continue to strengthen its balance sheet by pursuing deleveraging efforts, providing it the necessary flexibility to invest opportunistically and selectively, primaril y focusing on neighborhood and community shopping centers. In addition, the Company continues to be dedicated to building its institutional management business by forming joint ventures with high quality domestic and foreign institutional partners for the purpose of investing in neighborhood and community shopping centers. 

The Company continually evaluates its debt maturities, and, based on management’s current assessment, believes it has viable financing and refinancing alternatives that will not materially adversely impact its expected financial results. Although the credit environment remains volatile, the Company continues to pursue opportunities with large commercial U.S. and global banks, select life insurance companies and certain regional and local banks. The Company has noticed a trend that the approval process from mortgage lenders has slowed, while pricing and loan-to-value ratios remain dependent on specific deal terms, in general, spreads are higher and loan-to-values are lower, but the lenders are continuing to complete financing agreements. During the second half of 2009, the unsecured public debt markets became accessible for certain REITs and the Company successfully issued $300.0 million 6.875% 10-year unsecured Senior Notes. Moreover, the Company continues t o assess 2010 and beyond to ensure the Company is prepared if the current credit market dislocation continues.  

The retail shopping sector has been negatively affected by recent economic conditions. These conditions have forced some weaker retailers, in some cases, to declare bankruptcy and/or close stores. Certain retailers have announced store closings even though they have not filed for bankruptcy protection. However, any of these particular store closings affecting the Company often represent a small percentage of the Company’s overall gross leasable area and the Company does not currently expect store closings to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s overall performance.  

The decline in market conditions has also had a negative effect on real estate transactional activity as it relates to the acquisition and sale of real estate assets. The Company believes that the lack of real estate transactions will most likely continue throughout 2010 which may curtail the Company’s growth in the near term. 

During 2009, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of approximately $175.1 million, before income taxes and noncontrolling interest, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, investments in real estate joint ventures, real estate under development and other real estate investments. Ongoing adverse market and economic conditions could cause us to recognize additional impairments in the future.  

47 

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies 

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest, including where the Company has been determined to be a primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity in accordance with the Consolidation guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”). The Company applies these provisions to each of its joint venture investments to determine whether the cost, equity or consolidation method of accounting is appropriate. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. In preparing these financial statements, management has m ade its best estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. These estimates are based on, but not limited to, historical results, industry standards and current economic conditions, giving due consideration to materiality. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to revenue recognition and the recoverability of trade accounts receivable, depreciable lives, valuation of real estate and intangible assets and liabilities, valuation of joint venture investments, marketable securities and other investments and realizability of deferred tax assets. Application of these assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties, and, as a result, actual results could materially differ from these estimates. 

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of its real estate properties, investments in joint ventures, marketable securities and other investments. The Company’s reported net earnings is directly affected by management’s estimate of impairments and/or valuation allowances. 

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable 

Base rental revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Certain of these leases also provide for percentage rents based upon the level of sales achieved by the lessee. These percentage rents are recorded once the required sales level is achieved. Operating expense reimbursements are recognized as earned. Rental income may also include payments received in connection with lease termination agreements. In addition, leases typically provide for reimbursement to the Company of common area maintenance, real estate taxes and other operating expenses.  

The Company makes estimates of the uncollectability of its accounts receivable related to base rents, expense reimbursements and other revenues. The Company analyzes accounts receivable and historical bad debt levels, customer credit-worthiness and current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. In addition, tenants in bankruptcy are analyzed and estimates are made in connection with the expected recovery of pre-petition and post-petition claims. The Company’s reported net earnings is directly affected by management’s estimate of the collectability of accounts receivable. 

Real Estate 

The Company’s investments in real estate properties are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Significant renovations and replacements, which improve and extend the life of the asset, are capitalized. 

Upon acquisition of real estate operating properties, the Company estimates the fair value of acquired tangible assets (consisting of land, building, building improvements and tenant improvements) and identified intangible assets and liabilities (consisting of above and below-market leases, in-place leases and tenant relationships), assumed debt and redeemable units issued at the date of acquisition, based on evaluation of information and estimates available at that date. Based on these estimates, the Company allocates the estimated fair value to the applicable assets and liabilities. Fair value is determined based on an exit price approach, which contemplates the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. If, up to one year from the acquisition date, information regarding fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is received and estimates are refined, appropriate adjustments are made to the purchase price allocation on a retrospective basis. The Company expenses transaction costs associated with business combinations in the period incurred.  

48 

Table of Contents 

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows: 

Buildings and building improvements  15 to 50 years  

Fixtures, leasehold and tenant improvements  Terms of leases or useful  

(including certain identified intangible assets)  lives, whichever is shorter   

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of its properties for purposes of determining the amount of depreciation to reflect on an annual basis with respect to those properties. These assessments have a direct impact on the Company’s net earnings. 

Real estate under development on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets represents ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping center projects which may be subsequently sold upon completion or which the Company may hold as long-term investments. These assets are carried at cost. The cost of land and buildings under development includes specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved and other costs incurred during the period of development. The Company ceases cost capitalization when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity. A gain on the sale of these assets is generally recognized using the fu ll accrual method in accordance with the provisions of the FASB’s real estate sales guidance. 

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may be impaired. A property value is considered impaired only if management’s estimate of current and projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the property over its remaining useful life is less than the net carrying value of the property. Such cash flow projections consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. To the extent impairment has occurred, the carrying value of the property would be adjusted to an amount to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

When a real estate asset is identified by management as held-for-sale, the Company ceases depreciation of the asset and estimates the sales price of such asset net of selling costs. If, in management’s opinion, the net sales price of the asset is less than the net book value of such asset, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures 

The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated joint ventures under the equity method of accounting as the Company exercises significant influence, but does not control, these entities. These investments are recorded initially at cost and are subsequently adjusted for cash contributions and distributions. Earnings for each investment are recognized in accordance with each respective investment agreement and, where applicable, are based upon an allocation of the investment’s net assets at book value as if the investment was hypothetically liquidated at the end of each reporting period. 

The Company’s joint ventures and other real estate investments primarily consist of co-investments with institutional and other joint venture partners in neighborhood and community shopping center properties, consistent with its core business. These joint ventures typically obtain non-recourse third-party financing on their property investments, thus contractually limiting the Company’s exposure to losses to the amount of its equity investment, and, due to the lender’s exposure to losses, a lender typically will require a minimum level of equity in order to mitigate its risk. The Company’s exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily limited to its carrying value in these investments. The Company, on a selective basis, obtains unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. These unsecured financings are guaranteed by the Company with guarantees from the joint venture partners for their proportionate amount s of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make.  

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the Company’s investments in unconsolidated joint ventures may be impaired. An investment’s value is impaired only if management’s estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value of the investment and such difference is deemed to be other-than-temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the estimated fair value of the investment. 

49 

Table of Contents 

The Company’s estimated fair values are based upon a discounted cash flow model for each specific property that includes all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period. Capitalization rates, discount rates and credit spreads utilized in these models are based upon rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for each respective property.  

Marketable Securities 

The Company classifies its existing marketable equity securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the FASB’s Investments-Debt and Equity Securities guidance. These securities are carried at fair market value with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (“OCI”). Gains or losses on securities sold are based on the specific identification method.  

All debt securities are generally classified as held-to-maturity because the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to–maturity securities are stated at amortized cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Debt securities which contain conversion features are generally classified as available-for-sale. 

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the Company’s marketable securities may be impaired. A marketable security is impaired if the fair value of the security is less than the carrying value of the security and such difference is deemed to be other-than-temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the security over the estimated fair value in the security.  

Realizability of Deferred Tax Assets 

The Company is subject to federal, state and local income taxes on the income from its TRS activities, which include Kimco Realty Services ("KRS"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and the consolidated entities of FNC Realty Corporation (“FNC”) and Blue Ridge Real Estate Company/Big Boulder Corporation, (“Blue Ridge”). 

The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method, which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized based on future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the years in which temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when the changes are enacted. 

A reduction of the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance is required, if based on the evidence available, it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance should be sufficient to reduce the deferred tax asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. 

The Company considers all available evidence, both positive and negative, to determine whether, based on the weight of that evidence, a valuation allowance is needed. Information about an enterprise's current financial position and its results of operations for the current and preceding years is supplemented by all currently available information about future years. Sometimes, however, historical information may not be as relevant (for example, if there has been a significant, recent change in circumstances) and special attention is required. 

Future realization of the tax benefit of an existing deductible temporary difference or carryforward ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gain) within the carryback or carryforward period available under the tax law. The following four possible sources of taxable income may be available under the tax law to realize a tax benefit for deductible temporary differences and carryforwards. These include (i) future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, (ii) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, (iii) taxable income in prior carrybackyear(s) if carry back is permitted under the relevant tax law and (iv) tax-planning strategies that would, if necessary, be implemented. 

Evidence available about each of those possible sources of taxable income will vary for different tax jurisdictions and, possibly, from year to year. To the extent evidence about one or more sources of taxable income is sufficient to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not necessary, other sources need not be considered. Consideration of each source is required, however, to determine the amount of the valuation allowance that is recognized for deferred tax assets. 

50 

Table of Contents 

The Company must use judgment in considering the relative impact of negative and positive evidence. The weight given to the potential effect of negative and positive evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists (a) the more positive evidence is necessary and (b) the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed for some portion or all of the deferred tax asset. 

As of December 31, 2009, the Company had net deferred tax assets of approximately $86.3 million. This net deferred tax asset includes approximately $12.0 million for the tax effect of net operating losses, (“NOL”) after the impact of a valuation allowance of $33.8 million, relating to FNC, a consolidated entity in which the Company has a 53% ownership interest. The partial valuation allowance on the FNC deferred tax asset primarily results from current projected taxable income, being more likely than not, insufficient to utilize the full amount of the deferred tax asset. The Company’s remaining net deferred tax asset of approximately $74.3 million primarily relates to KRS and consists of (i) $13.8 million in deferred tax liabilities, (ii) $9.8 million in NOL carryforwards that expire in 2029, (iii) $6.3 million in tax credit carryforwards, $4.0 million of which expire in 2029 and $2.3 million that do not expire and (iv) $72.0 million primarily relating to difference s in GAAP book basis and tax basis of accounting for (i) real estate assets (ii) real estate joint ventures, (iii) other real estate investments, and (iv) asset impairments charges that have been recorded for book purposes but not yet recognized for tax purposes and (v) other miscellaneous deductible temporary differences.  

As of December 31, 2009, the Company determined that no valuation allowance was needed against the $74.3 million net deferred tax asset within KRS. This determination was based upon the Company's analysis of both positive evidence, which includes future projected income for KRS and negative evidence, which consists of a three year cumulative pretax book loss of approximately $23.0 million for KRS. The cumulative loss was primarily the result of significant impairment charges taken by KRS during 2009 and 2008 of approximately $91.7 million and approximately $82.2 million, respectively. KRS has a strong earnings history exclusive of the impairment charges. Since 2001, KRS has produced substantial taxable income in each year through 2008. Over the prior three years (2006 through 2008) KRS generated approximately $69.3 million of taxable income, before net operating loss carryovers. 

To determine future projected income the Company scheduled KRS’s pre-tax book income and taxable income over a twenty year period taking into account its continuing operations (“core earnings”). Core earnings consist of estimated net operating income for properties currently in service and generating rental income from existing tenants. Major lease turnover is not expected in these properties as these properties were generally constructed and leased within the past two years. To allow the forecast to remain objective and verifiable, no income growth was forecasted for any other aspect of KRS’s continuing business activities including its investment in the Albertson’s joint venture. The Company also included future known events in its projected income forecast such as the maturity of certain mortgages and construction loans which will significantly reduce the amount of interest expense incurred in future years. Additionally, the Company has also committed t o certain actions which will result in reducing leverage at KRS. With the Company’s change in its merchant building strategy, future business operations at KRS will not support its current capital structure which consists of approximately $564 million of intercompany loans the Company has made to KRS to fund its merchant building operation. KRS incurred approximately $32.1 million of interest expense related to the intercompany financing during 2009. The Company will recapitalize a significant portion of the debt to reflect KRS’s ongoing business activities. The twenty year taxable income estimate reduces intercompany interest in accordance with this plan. 

The Company’s projection of KRS’s future taxable income, utilizing the assumptions above with respect to core earnings and reductions in interest expense due to debt maturities and the Company’s recapitalization plans, generates approximately $205.2 million in future taxable income which is sufficient to fully utilize KRS’s $74.3 million net deferred tax asset. As a result of this analysis the Company has determined it is more likely than not that KRS’s net deferred tax asset of $74.3 million will be realized and therefore, no valuation allowance is needed at December 31, 2009. If future income projections do not occur as forecasted or the Company incurs additional impairment losses, the Company will reevaluate the need for a valuation allowance. 

Results of Operations 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

51 

Table of Contents 

(1) 

Revenues from rental property increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2008 and 2009, providing incremental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $29.3 million, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008 and (ii) the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects and tenant buyouts providing incremental revenues of approximately $7.4 million, for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008, which was partially offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $8.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008, primarily resulting from the sale of certain properties during 2008 and 2009, and (iv) an overall occupancy decrease from the consolidated shopping center portfolio from 93.1% at December 31, 2008 to 92.2% at December 31, 2009. 

(2) 

Rental property expenses increased primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2008 and 2009, (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service, which resulted in lower capitalization of carry costs, and (iii) an increase in snow removal costs during 2009 as compared to 2008, partially offset by (iv) a decrease in insurance costs during 2009 as compared to 2008 and (v) operating property dispositions during 2008 and 2009. 

(3) 

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2008 and 2009, (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service and (iii) tenant vacates, partially offset by operating property dispositions during 2008 and 2009. 

Mortgage and other financing income decreased $3.3 million to $15.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $18.3 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in interest income during 2009 resulting from the repayment of certain mortgage receivables during 2009 and 2008. 

Management and other fee income decreased approximately $5.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in property management fees of approximately $5.8 million for 2009, due to lower revenues attributable to lower occupancy and the sale of certain properties during 2008 and 2009, partially offset by an increase in other transaction related fees of approximately $0.6 million recognized during 2009.  

General and administrative expenses decreased approximately $6.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to a reduction in force during 2009 as a result of implementing the Company’s core business strategy of focusing on owning and operating shopping centers and a shift away from certain non-strategic assets along with a lack of transactional activity.  

Interest, dividends and other investment income decreased approximately $23.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a decrease in realized gains of approximately $8.2 million during 2009 resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during the corresponding period in 2008 as compared to 2009, and (ii) a decrease in interest and dividend income of approximately $14.8 million during 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008, primarily resulting from the sale of investments in marketable securities and reductions in dividends declared from certain marketable securities during 2009 and 2008.  

Other expense, net decreased approximately $1.3 million to $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $2.2 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to (i) the receipt of fewer shares of Sears Holding Corp. common stock received as partial settlement of Kmart pre-petition claims during 2008, (ii) an increase in foreign withholding taxes, partially offset by (iii) increased gains from land sales of approximately $5.9 million and (iv) an increase in the fair value of an embedded derivative instrument relating to the convertible option of the Valad notes of approximately $9.8 million.  

Interest expense decreased approximately $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is due to lower outstanding levels of debt during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 2008. 

Income from other real estate investments decreased $50.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a decrease from the Company’s Preferred Equity Program of approximately $36.4 million in contributed income during 2009, including a decrease of approximately $22.1 million in profit participation earned from capital transactions during 2009 as compared to the corresponding period in 2008 and (ii) a gain of approximately $7.2 million from the sale of the Company’s interest in a real estate company located in Mexico during 2008.  

During 2009, the Company sold, in separate transactions, five out-parcels, four land parcels and three ground leases for aggregate proceeds of approximately $19.4 million. These transactions resulted in gains on sale of development properties of approximately $5.8 million, before income taxes of $2.3 million.  

52 

Table of Contents 

During 2008, the Company sold, in separate transactions, (i) two completed merchant building projects, (ii) 21 out-parcels, (iii) a partial sale of one project and (iv) a partnership interest in one project for aggregate proceeds of approximately $73.5 million and received approximately $4.1 million of proceeds from completed earn-out requirements on three previously sold merchant building projects. These sales resulted in gains of approximately $21.9 million, after income taxes of $14.6 million.  

During 2009, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of approximately $175.1 million, before income taxes and noncontrolling interest, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, investments in real estate joint ventures, real estate under development and other real estate investments. The Company’s estimated fair values relating to these impairment assessments were based upon discounted cash flow models that included all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period and where applicable, any estimated debt premiums. These cash flows are comprised of unobservable inputs which include contractual rental revenues and forecasted rental revenues and expenses based upon market conditions and expectations for growth. Capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in these models were based upon observable rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for the respective properties. Based on t hese inputs the Company determined that its valuation in these investments was classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Approximately $30.1 million of the total non-cash impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2009, were due to the decline in value of certain marketable equity securities and other investments that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of approximately $145.8 million, before income tax benefit of approximately $31.1 million.  

Approximately $118.4 million of the total non-cash impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2008, were due to the decline in value of certain marketable equity securities and other investments that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

The Company will continue to assess the value of all its assets on an on-going basis. Based on these assessments, the Company may determine that a decline in value for one or more of its investments may be other-than-temporary or permanent and would therefore write-down its cost basis accordingly. 

Benefit for income taxes increased by $23.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008. This change is primarily due to (i) a decrease in the tax provision expense of approximately $13.2 million from equity income recognized in connection with the Albertson’s investment during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008 and (ii) a decrease in the income tax provision expense of approximately $12.3 million in connection with gains on sale of development properties during 2009 as compared to 2008, partially offset by a decrease in income tax benefit of approximately $2.1 million related to impairments taken during the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the corresponding period in 2008.  

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net for the year ended December 31, 2009, was approximately $6.3 million as compared to $132.2 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This reduction of approximately $125.9 million is primarily the result of (i) an increase in the recognition of non-cash impairment charges against the carrying value of the Company’s investment in unconsolidated joint ventures of approximately $27.5 million recorded during 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008, primarily due to an increase in impairments of approximately $23.9 million recognized by the KimPru joint ventures, (ii) the recognition of approximately $2.9 million of equity in income from the Albertson’s joint venture during 2009, as compared to $63.9 million of equity in income recognized during 2008 resulting from the sale of 121 properties in the joint venture, (iii) a decrease in income related to the recognition of approximately $11.0 million in income result ing from cash distributions received in excess of the Company’s carrying value of its investment in various unconsolidated limited liability partnerships during the corresponding period in 2008, (iv) a decrease in income of $11.8 million during 2009, from a joint venture which holds interests in extended stay residential properties primarily due to overall decreases in occupancy, (v) a decrease in profit participation of approximately $9.1 million during 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008, resulting from the sale/transfer of operating properties from two joint venture investments, (vi) a decrease in income of approximately $4.5 million during 2009, from a Canadian joint venture investment, primarily due to an overall decrease in occupancy and (vii) a decrease in occupancy levels within certain real estate joint venture investments, partially offset by increased gains on sales of approximately $5.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the sale of operating pr operties during 2009, as compared to 2008.  

53 

Table of Contents 

During 2009, the Company disposed of, in separate transactions, portions of six operating properties and one land parcel for an aggregate sales price of approximately $28.9 million. These transactions resulted in the Company’s recognition of an aggregate net gain of approximately $4.1 million, net of income tax of $0.2 million. 

During 2008, the Company disposed of seven operating properties and a portion of four operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $73.0 million, which resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $20.0 million. In addition, the Company partially recognized deferred gains of approximately $1.2 million on three properties relating to their transfer and partial sale in connection with the Kimco Income Fund II transaction described below.  

During 2008, the Company transferred three properties to a wholly-owned consolidated entity, Kimco Income Fund II (“KIF II”), for $73.9 million, including $50.6 million in non-recourse mortgage debt. During 2008 the Company sold a 26.4% non-controlling ownership interest in the entity to third parties for approximately $32.5 million, which approximated the Company’s cost. The Company continues to consolidate this entity. 

Additionally, during 2008, the Company disposed of an operating property for approximately $21.4 million. The Company provided seller financing for approximately $3.6 million, which bears interest at 10% per annum and is scheduled to mature on May 1, 2011. Due to the terms of this financing the Company has deferred its gain of $3.7 million from this sale. 

Additionally, during 2008, a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment disposed of a property for a sales price of approximately $35.0 million. As a result of this capital transaction, the Company received approximately $3.5 million of profit participation, before noncontrolling interest of approximately $1.1 million. This profit participation has been recorded as income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

Net loss attributable to the Company for 2009 was $3.9 million. Net income attributable to the Company for 2008 was $249.9 million. On a diluted per share basis, net loss attributable to the Company was $0.15 for 2009, as compared to net income of $0.78 for 2008. These changes are primarily attributable to (i) an increase in non-cash impairment charges of approximately $57.8 million, net of income taxes and noncontrolling interests, resulting from continuing declines in the real estate markets and equity securities, (ii) a reduction in Income from other real estate investments, primarily due to a decrease in profit participation from the Company’s Preferred Equity program, (iii) a decrease in equity in income of joint ventures, primarily due to a decrease in income from the Albertson’s investment and impairment charges relating to five joint venture investments, and (iv) lower gains on sales of development properties, partially offset by (v) an increase in re venues from rental properties primarily due to acquisitions of operating properties during 2009 and 2008.  

Comparison 2008 to 2007 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) 

Revenues from rental property increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2008 and 2007, providing incremental revenues of approximately $54.2 million, (ii) the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects and tenant buyouts providing incremental revenues of approximately $34.1 million for the year ended 2008 as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, partially offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, primarily resulting from the transfer of operating properties to various unconsolidated joint venture entities and the sale of certain properties during 2008 and 2007 and (iv) an overall occupancy decrease from the consolidated shopping center portfolio from 95.9% at December 31, 2007, to 93.1% at December 31, 2008. 

(2) 

Rental property expenses increased primarily due to operating property acquisitions during 2008 and 2007 which were partially offset by operating property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities. 

(3) 

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to operating property acquisitions during 2008 and 2007 which were partially offset by operating property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities. 

54 

Table of Contents 

Mortgage and other financing income increased $4.1 million to $18.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to $14.2 million for the corresponding period in 2007. This increase is primarily due to an increase in interest income from new mortgage receivables entered into during 2008 and 2007. 

Management and other fee income decreased approximately $7.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in other transaction related fees of approximately $9.1 million, recognized during the year ended December 31, 2007, partially offset by an increase in property management fees of approximately $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. This increase is primarily due to personnel-related costs, primarily due to the growth within the Company’s co-investment programs and the overall continued growth of the Company during 2008 and 2007. In addition, due to current economic conditions resulting in the lack of transactional activity within the real estate industry as a whole, the Company has accrued approximately $3.6 million at December 31, 2008, relating to severance costs associated with employees who have been terminated during January 2009.  

Interest, dividends and other investment income increased approximately $19.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. This increase is primarily due to (i) an increase in realized gains of approximately $2.5 million resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during 2008 as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, (ii) an increase in interest income of approximately $16.1 million, primarily resulting from interest earned on notes acquired in 2008 and (iii) an increase in dividend income of approximately $1.2 million primarily resulting from increased investments in marketable securities during 2008. 

Other expense, net decreased approximately $8.3 million to $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to $10.6 million for the corresponding period in 2007. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a reduction in Canadian withholding tax expense relating to a 2007 capital transaction from a Canadian preferred equity investment, partially offset by (ii) the receipt of fewer shares during 2008 as compared to 2007 of Sears Holding Corp. common stock received as partial settlement of Kmart pre-petition claims and (iii) the recognition of a $7.7 million unrealized decrease in the fair value of an embedded derivative instrument relating to the convertible option of certain debt securities.  

Income from other real estate investments increased $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. This increase is primarily due to a gain of approximately $7.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2008, from the sale of the Company’s interest in a real estate company located in Mexico. 

During 2008, the Company sold, in separate transactions, (i) two completed merchant building projects, (ii) 21 out-parcels, (iii) a partial sale of one project and (iv) a partnership interest in one project for aggregate proceeds of approximately $73.5 million and received approximately $4.1 million of proceeds from completed earn-out requirements on three previously sold merchant building projects. These sales resulted in gains of approximately $36.5 million, before income taxes of $14.6 million.  

During 2007, the Company sold, in separate transactions, (i) four completed merchant building projects, (ii) 26 out-parcels, (iii) 74.3 acres of undeveloped land and (iv) completed partial sales of two projects, for aggregate total proceeds of approximately $310.5 million and approximately $3.3 million of proceeds from completed earn-out requirements on previously sold projects. These transactions resulted in gains of approximately $40.1 million, before income taxes of $16.0 million. 

For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges of approximately $147.5 million, before income tax benefit of approximately $25.7 million.  

Approximately $118.4 million of the total non-cash impairment charges for the year ended December 31, 2008, were due to the decline in value of certain marketable equity securities and other investments that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

The Company recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $15.5 million against the carrying value of its investment in its unconsolidated joint ventures with PREI, reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of its investment resulting from further significant declines in the real estate markets during the fourth quarter of 2008. Also, impairments of approximately $6.6 million were recognized on real estate development projects including Plantations Crossing located in Middleburg, FL and Miramar Town Center located in Miramar, FL. These development project impairment charges are the result of adverse changes in local market conditions and the uncertainty of their recovery in the future. 

55 

Table of Contents 

The Company will continue to assess the value of all its assets on an on-going basis. Based on these assessments, the Company may determine that a decline in value for one or more of its investments may be other-than-temporary or permanent and would therefore write-down its cost basis accordingly. 

Benefit for income taxes decreased $18.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. This change is primarily due to (i) a tax provision of approximately $17.3 million, partially offset by a reduction of approximately $3.1 million in NOL valuation allowance from equity income recognized during 2008 in connection with the Albertson’s investment, (ii) an income tax provision of approximately $3.1 million related to equity in income of real estate joint ventures during 2008, (iii) an income tax provision of approximately $2.0 million related to gains on sale of operating properties during 2008 and (iv) a reduction of NOL valuation allowance during 2007 of approximately $28.1 million, partially offset by (v) an increase in income tax benefit of approximately $30.1 million related to impairments taken during the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007. 

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net for the year ended December 31, 2008, was approximately $132.2 million as compared to $173.4 million for the corresponding period in 2007. This reduction of approximately $41.2 million is primarily the result of (i) a decrease in equity in income of approximately $47.1 million from the Kimco Retail Opportunity Portfolio (“KROP”) joint venture investment primarily due to a decrease in profit participation from the sale/transfer of operating properties for the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, (ii) a decrease in equity in income of approximately $25.2 million from the KIR joint venture investment primarily resulting from fewer gains on sales of operating properties during the year ended December 31, 2008, as compared to the corresponding period in 2007, (iii) impairment charges during 2008 of approximately $11.2 million, before income tax benefit, relating to certain joint vent ure properties held by the KimPru joint venture that are deemed held-for-sale or were transitioned to held-for-use properties, (iv) lower gains on sale of approximately $21.3 million for 2008 as compared to 2007, partially offset by (v) an increase in equity in income of approximately $67.4 million from the Albertson’s joint venture investment primarily resulting from gains on sale of 121 properties during 2008 as compared to 2007 and (vi) growth within the Company’s other various real estate joint ventures due to additional capital investments for the acquisition of additional operating properties by ventures throughout 2007 and the year ended December 31, 2008. 

During 2008, the Company disposed of seven operating properties and a portion of four operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $73.0 million, which resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $20.0 million. In addition, the Company partially recognized deferred gains of approximately $1.2 million on three properties relating to their transfer and partial sale in connection with the Kimco Income Fund II transaction described below.  

During 2007 the Company transferred 11 operating properties to a wholly-owned consolidated entity, Kimco Income Fund II (“KIF II”), for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $278.2 million, including non-recourse mortgage debt of $180.9 million, encumbering 11 of the properties. During 2008, the Company transferred an additional three properties for $73.9 million, including $50.6 million in non-recourse mortgage debt. During 2008 the Company sold a 26.4% noncontrolling ownership interest in the entity to third parties for approximately $32.5 million, which approximated the Company’s cost. The Company continues to consolidate this entity. 

Additionally, during 2008, the Company disposed of an operating property for approximately $21.4 million. The Company provided seller financing for approximately $3.6 million, which bears interest at 10% per annum and is scheduled to mature on May 1, 2011. Due to the terms of this financing the Company has deferred its gain of $3.7 million from this sale. 

Additionally, during 2008, a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment disposed of a property for a sales price of approximately $35.0 million. As a result of this capital transaction, the Company received approximately $3.5 million of profit participation, before noncontrolling interest of approximately $1.1 million. This profit participation has been recorded as income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

During 2007, the Company (i) disposed of six operating properties and completed partial sales of three operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $40.0 million, which resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $6.4 million, after income taxes of approximately $1.6 million and (ii) transferred one operating property, which was acquired in the first quarter of 2007, to a joint venture in which the Company holds a 15% noncontrolling ownership interest for an aggregate price of approximately $4.5 million, which represented the net book value. 

56 

Table of Contents 

Additionally, during 2007, two consolidated joint ventures in which the Company had preferred equity investments disposed of, in separate transactions, their respective properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $66.5 million. As a result of these capital transactions, the Company received approximately $22.1 million of profit participation, before noncontrolling interest of approximately $5.6 million. This profit participation has been recorded as income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

Net income attributable to the Company for the year ended December 31, 2008, was $249.9 million or $0.78 on a diluted per share basis as compared to $442.8 million or $1.65 on a diluted per share basis for the corresponding period in 2007. This change is primarily attributable to (i) the recognition of non-cash impairment charges aggregating approximately $157.0 million, before income tax benefits, resulting from continuing declines in the equity securities and real estate markets, (ii) recognition of an extraordinary gain of approximately $50.3 million, net of income tax, in 2007, relating to the Albertson’s joint venture, (iii) a reduction of Equity in income of real estate joint ventures of approximately $41.2 million, primarily due to a decrease in profit participation and gain on sales of operating properties during 2008 as compared to 2007, (iv) a decrease in the reduction of NOL valuation allowance and the recording of a provision from equity in income recognized during 2008 in connection with the Albertson’s investment, partially offset by (v) an increase in revenues from rental properties primarily due to acquisitions of operating properties during 2008 and 2007. 

Tenant Concentrations 

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties, avoiding dependence on any single property and a large tenant base. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s five largest tenants were The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings, Wal-Mart and Kohl’s, which represent approximately 3.3%, 2.6%, 2.5%, 2.2% and 2.0%, respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company’s capital resources include accessing the public debt and equity capital markets, when available, mortgage and construction loan financing and immediate access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of approximately $1.7 billion. 

The Company’s cash flow activities are summarized as follows (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities 

Cash flow provided from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009, was approximately $403.6 million, as compared to approximately $567.6 million for the comparable period in 2008. The change of approximately $164.0 million is primarily attributable to (i) a decrease in distributions from joint ventures of approximately $125.3 million, primarily from a decrease in distributions from the Albertson’s investment, profit participation from the Company’s Preferred Equity program and a decrease from various other real estate joint ventures, (ii) a decrease in interest, dividends and other investment income of approximately $14.8 million primarily due to the sale and reductions in dividends of certain marketable securities during the corresponding period in 2008 as compared to 2009, and (iii) an increase in prepaid expenses of approximately $23.7 million primarily related to an increase in prepaid income taxes which primarily represents a tax refund re ceivable due to the sale of Valad equity securities at a taxable loss, which is being carried back to prior year tax returns that have capital gain income, partially offset by the acquisition of properties during 2008 and growth in rental rates from lease renewals and the completion of certain re-development and development projects. 

57 

Table of Contents 

During 2009, the Company (i) completed two primary public common stock offerings, which provided net proceeds to the Company of approximately $1.1 billion, (ii) obtained a two-year $220.0 million unsecured term loan with a consortium of banks, (iii) completed a 10-year $300.0 million unsecured Senior Notes offering, which was used to repay the two-year $220 million unsecured term loan and to repay various construction loans, and (iv) completed mortgage and construction loan financings of approximately $433.2 million (see financing activities below). However, capital and credit markets remain increasingly volatile and constrained. If these markets continue to experience volatility and the availability of funds remains limited, the Company will incur increased costs associated with issuing or obtaining debt. In addition, it is possible that the Company’s ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these or other factors. &nb sp;Notwithstanding the foregoing, at this time the Company anticipates that cash flows from operating activities will continue to provide adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt service obligations and dividend payments in accordance with REIT requirements in both the short term and long term.  

The Company continually evaluates its debt maturities, and, based on management’s current assessment, believes it has viable financing and refinancing alternatives that will not materially adversely impact its expected financial results. Although the credit environment remains challenging, the Company continues to pursue opportunities with large commercial U.S. and global banks, select life insurance companies and certain regional and local banks. The Company has noticed a trend that the approval process from mortgage lenders is slow, while pricing and loan-to-value ratios remain dependent on specific deal terms, in general, spreads are higher and loan-to-values are lower, but the lenders are continuing to complete financing agreements. During 2009, the unsecured public debt markets became accessible for certain REITs, including the Company. Moreover, the Company continues to assess 2010 and beyond to ensure the Company is prepared if the current credit market dislocation continues.  

Debt maturities for 2010 consist of: $260.0 million of consolidated debt; $646.5 million of unconsolidated joint venture debt; and $286.5 million of preferred equity debt, assuming the utilization of extension options where available. The 2010 consolidated debt maturities are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, borrowings from the Company’s credit facilities, which at December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion available under these credit facilities, and debt refinancings. The 2010 unconsolidated joint venture and preferred equity debt maturities are anticipated to be repaid through debt refinancing and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate. 

The Company anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facilities, issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Net cash flow provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2009, was primarily attributable to (i) cash flow from the diverse portfolio of rental properties, (ii) the acquisition of operating properties during 2009 and 2008, (iii) new leasing, expansion and re-tenanting of core portfolio properties and (iv) distributions from the Company’s joint venture programs. 

Investing Activities 

Cash flow used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009, was approximately $343.2 million, as compared to approximately $781.4 million for the comparable period in 2008. This decrease in cash utilization of approximately $438.2 million resulted primarily from decreases in (i) the acquisition of and improvements to real estate under development, (ii) investments in marketable securities, including the acquisition of the Valad Property Group convertible notes and equity securities during 2008, (iii) investments and advances to real estate joint ventures and (iv) investments in mortgage loans receivable, partially offset by (v) a decrease in proceeds from the sale of operating and development properties, (vi) a decrease in proceeds from transferred operating/development properties and (vii) a decrease in reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures and other real estate investments during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008. 

Acquisitions of and Improvements to Operating Real Estate 

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company expended approximately $374.5 million towards acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate including $43.4 million expended in connection with redevelopments and re-tenanting projects as described below. (See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

58 

Table of Contents 

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects during 2010 will be approximately $30.0 million to $40.0 million. The funding of these capital requirements will be provided by cash flow from operating activities and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit. 

Investments and Advances to Real Estate Joint Ventures 

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company expended approximately $109.9 million for investments and advances to real estate joint ventures and received approximately $99.6 million from reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures. (See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Acquisitions of and Improvements to Real Estate Under Development 

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consist of (i) U.S. ground-up development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (ii) various ground-up development projects located in Latin America for long-term investment (see Recent Developments - International Real Estate Investments and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). During 2009, the Company changed its merchant building business strategy from a sale upon completion strategy to a long-term hold strategy. Those properties previously considered merchant building are now either placed in service or included in U.S. ground-up development. The ground-up development projects generally have significant pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had in progress a total of 11 ground-up development projects, consisting of seven ground-up development projects located throughout Mexico, two ground-up development projects located in the U.S., one ground-up development project located in Chile, and one ground-up development project located in Brazil. 

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company expended approximately $143.3 million in connection with construction costs related to ground-up development projects. The Company anticipates its capital commitment during 2010 toward these and other development projects will be approximately $50.0 million to $60.0 million. The proceeds from the sales of completed ground-up development projects, proceeds from construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital requirements.  

Dispositions and Transfers 

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company received net proceeds of approximately $57.1 million relating to the sale of various operating properties and ground-up development projects. (See Notes 5 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Financing Activities 

Cash flow used for financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2009, was approximately $74.5 million, as compared to cash flow provided by financing activities of approximately $262.4 million for the comparable period in 2008. This change of approximately $336.9 million resulted primarily from (i) higher repayments of approximately $647.5 million of borrowings under unsecured revolving credit facilities, (ii) a decrease of $460.4 million in net borrowings under the Company’s unsecured revolving credit facilities and (iii) higher repayments of approximately $303.7 million of unsecured term loan/notes, partially offset by (iv) an increase in proceeds from issuance of stock of approximately $613.4 million, (v) an increase in proceeds from mortgage/construction loan financing of approximately $357.2 million, offset by an increase in principal repayments of approximately $576.5 million, (vi) increased proceeds received from a $220.0 million unsecured term loan and a $300.0 million senior unsecured notes during 2009 as compared to the corresponding period in 2008 and (vii) a decrease in dividends paid of $138.0 million. 

The Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment-grade debt ratings. The Company plans to strengthen is balance sheet by pursuing deleveraging efforts over time. The Company may, from time-to-time, seek to obtain funds through additional common and preferred equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives. 

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its  

59 

Table of Contents 

public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $7.4 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have been used for the purposes of, among other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments. These markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and deterioration. As available, the Company will continue to access these markets. In March 2006, the Company was added to the S & P 500 Index, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap corporations, most of which are U.S. corporations. 

The Company has a $1.5 billion unsecured U.S. revolving credit facility (the "U.S. Credit Facility") with a group of banks, which is scheduled to expire in October 2011. The Company has a one-year extension option related to this facility. This credit facility has made available funds to finance general corporate purposes, including (i) property acquisitions, (ii) investments in the Company’s institutional management programs, (iii) development and redevelopment costs and (iv) any short-term working capital requirements, including managing the Company’s debt maturities. Interest on borrowings under the U.S. Credit Facility accrues at LIBOR plus 0.425% and fluctuates in accordance with changes in the Company’s senior debt ratings. As part of this U.S. Credit Facility, the Company has a competitive bid option whereby the Company may auction up to $750.0 million of its requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid option provides th e Company the opportunity to obtain pricing below the currently stated spread. A facility fee of 0.15% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. As part of the U.S. Credit Facility, the Company has a $200.0 million sub-limit which provides it the opportunity to borrow in alternative currencies such as Pounds Sterling, Japanese Yen or Euros. As of December 31, 2009, there was $139.5 million outstanding and approximately $22.5 million appropriated letters of credit under this credit facility. Pursuant to the terms of the U.S. Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is subject to maintenance of various covenants. The Company is currently not in violation of these covenants. The financial covenants for the U.S. Credit Facility are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For a full description of the US Credit Facility’s covenants refer to the Credit Agreement dated as of October 25, 2007 filed in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 25, 2007. 

The Company also has a three-year CAD $250.0 million unsecured credit facility with a group of banks. This facility bears interest at a rate of CDOR plus 0.425%, subject to change in accordance with the Company’s senior debt ratings and is scheduled to mature March 2011 with an additional one year extension option. A facility fee of 0.15% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. This facility also permits U.S. dollar denominated borrowings. Proceeds from this facility are used for general corporate purposes, including the funding of Canadian denominated investments. As of December 31, 2009, there was no outstanding balance under this credit facility. There are approximately CAD $67.4 million (approximately USD $64.0 million) appropriated for letters of credit under this credit facility at December 31, 2009. The Canadian facility covenants are the same as the U.S. Credit Facility covenants described above. 

During March 2008, the Company obtained a MXP 1.0 billion term loan, which bears interest at a rate of 8.58%, subject to change in accordance with the Company’s senior debt ratings, and is scheduled to mature in March 2013. The Company utilized proceeds from this term loan to fully repay the outstanding balance of a MXP 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which was terminated by the Company. Remaining proceeds from this term loan were used for funding MXP denominated investments. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this term loan was MXP 1.0 billion (approximately USD $76.6 million). The Mexican term loan covenants are the same as the U.S. and Canadian Credit Facilities covenants described above. 

The Company has a Medium Term Notes program pursuant to which it may, from time-to-time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities. (See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)  

The Company’s supplemental indenture governing its medium term notes and senior notes contains the following covenants, all of which the Company is compliant with: 

60 

Table of Contents 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For a full description of the various indenture covenants refer to the Indenture dated September 1, 1993, First Supplemental Indenture dated August 4, 1994, the Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 7, 1995, the Third Supplemental Indenture dated June 2, 2006, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 24, 2009, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 31, 2006 and First Supplemental Indenture dated October 31, 2006, as filed with the SEC. See Exhibits Index on page 65, for specific filing information. 

During September 2009, the Company issued $300.0 million of 10-year Senior Unsecured Notes at an interest rate of 6.875% payable semi-annually in arrears. These notes were sold at 99.84% of par value. Net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $297.3 million, after related transaction costs of approximately $0.3 million. The proceeds from this issuance were primarily used to repay the Company’s $220.0 million unsecured term loan described below. The remaining proceeds were used to repay certain construction loans that were scheduled to mature in 2010.  

During April 2009, the Company obtained a two-year $220.0 million unsecured term loan with a consortium of banks, which accrued interest at a spread of 4.65% to LIBOR (subject to a 2% LIBOR floor) or at the Company’s option, at a spread of 3.65% to the “ABR,” as defined in the Credit Agreement. The term loan was scheduled to mature in April 2011. The Company utilized proceeds from this term loan to partially repay the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes. During September 2009, the Company fully repaid the $220.0 million outstanding balance on this loan.  

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company repaid (i) its $130.0 million 6.875% senior notes, which matured on February 10, 2009, (ii) its $20.0 million 7.56% Medium Term Note, which matured in May 2009 and (iii) its $25.0 million 7.06% Medium Term Note, which matured in July 2009.  

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the Company may, from time-to-time, obtain mortgage financing on selected properties and construction loans to partially fund the capital needs of its ground-up development projects. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had over 420 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio. 

Additionally during the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company repurchased in aggregate approximately $36.1 million in face value of its Medium Term Notes and Fixed Rate Bonds for an aggregate discounted purchase price of approximately $33.7 million. These transactions resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $2.4 million.  

During 2009, the Company (i) obtained an aggregate of approximately $400.2 of non-recourse mortgage debt on 21 operating properties, (ii) assumed approximately $579.2 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the acquisition of 22 operating properties, including approximately $1.6 million of fair value debt adjustments and (iii) paid off approximately $437.7 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt which encumbered 24 operating properties. 

During 2009, the Company fully repaid nine construction loans aggregating approximately $212.2 million. As of December 31, 2009, total loan commitments on the Company’s four remaining construction loans aggregated approximately $69.7 million of which approximately $45.8 million has been funded. These loans have scheduled maturities ranging from 11 months to 56 months (excluding any extension options which may be available to the Company) and bear interest at rates ranging from 2.13% to 4.50% at December 31, 2009. Approximately $3.4 million of the outstanding loan balance matures in 2010. These maturing loans are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, borrowings under the Company’s credit facilities and additional debt financings. In addition, the Company may pursue or exercise existing extension options with lenders where available. 

During April 2009, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR, which is effective for a term of three years, for the future unlimited offerings, from time-to-time, of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants.  

61 

Table of Contents 

During December 2009, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of 28,750,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. The net proceeds from this sale of common stock, totaling approximately $345.1 million (after related transaction costs of $0.75 million) were used to partially repay the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility. 

During April 2009, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of 105,225,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. The net proceeds from this sale of common stock, totaling approximately $717.3 million (after related transaction costs of $0.7 million) were used to partially repay the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.  

During 2009, the Company received approximately $1.5 million through employee stock option exercises and the dividend reinvestment program. 

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows. The Company’s Board of Directors will continue to evaluate the Company’s dividend policy on a quarterly basis as they monitor sources of capital and evaluate the impact of the economy and capital markets availability on operating fundamentals. Since cash used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests in new properties and other investments as suitable opportunities arise and such other factors as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. Cash dividends paid decreased to $331.0 million in 2009, compared to $469.0 million in 2008 and $384.5 million in 2007. 

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable instruments. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per common share payable to shareholders of record on January 4, 2010, which was paid on January 15, 2010. Additionally, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.16 per common share payable to shareholders of record on April 5, 2010, which will be paid on April 15, 2010.  

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments 

The Company has debt obligations relating to its revolving credit facilities, MTNs, senior notes, mortgages and construction loans with maturities ranging from less than one year to 22 years. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s total debt had a weighted average term to maturity of approximately 4.7 years. In addition, the Company has non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has 52 shopping center properties that are subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying land to the Company to construct and/or operate a shopping center. In addition, the Company has 16 non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its retail store lease portfolio. The following table summarizes the Company’s debt maturities (excluding extension options and fair market value of debt aggregating approximately $9.4 million) and obligations under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2009 (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) maturities utilized do not reflect extension options, which range from one to two years. 

(2) for loans which have interest at floating rates, future interest expense was calculated using the rate as of December 31, 2009. 

The Company has $46.5 million of medium term notes, $25.0 million of senior unsecured notes, $151.9 of unsecured notes payable, $129.6 million of mortgage debt and $3.4 million of construction loans scheduled to mature in 2010. The Company anticipates satisfying these maturities with a combination of operating cash flows, its unsecured revolving credit facilities, refinancing of debt and new debt issuances, when available. 

62 

Table of Contents 

The Company has issued letters of credit in connection with completion and repayment guarantees for construction loans encumbering certain of the Company’s ground-up development projects and guarantee of payment related to the Company’s insurance program. These letters of credit aggregate approximately $23.9 million. 

In addition, during August 2009, the Company became obligated to issue a letter of credit for approximately CAD $66.0 million (approximately USD $62.7 million) relating to a tax assessment dispute with the CRA. The letter of credit has been issued under the Company’s CAD $250 million credit facility. The dispute is in regards to three of the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiaries which hold a 50% co-ownership interest in Canadian real estate. However, applicable Canadian law requires that a non-resident corporation post sufficient collateral to cover a claim for taxes assessed. As such, the Company issued its letter of credit as required by the governing law. The Company strongly believes that it has a justifiable defense against the dispute which will release the Company from any and all liability.  

During August 2008, KimPru entered into a $650.0 million credit facility, which bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.25% and was initially scheduled to mature in August 2009. This facility included an option to extend the maturity date for one year, subject to certain requirements including a reduction of the outstanding balance to $485.0 million. During August 2009, KimPru exercised the one-year extension option and made an additional payment to reduce the balance to $485.0 million; as such the credit facility is scheduled to mature in August 2010. Proceeds from this credit facility were used to repay the outstanding balance of $658.7 million under the $1.2 billion credit facility, which was scheduled to mature in October 2008 and bore interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 0.45%. This facility is guaranteed by the Company with a guarantee from PREI to the Company for 85% of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on the credit facility was $331.0 million. 

During June 2007, the Company entered into a joint venture, in which the Company has a noncontrolling ownership interest, and acquired all of the common stock of InTown Suites Management, Inc. This investment was funded with approximately $186.0 million of new cross-collateralized non-recourse mortgage debt with a fixed interest rate of 5.59%, encumbering 35 properties, a $153.0 million three-year unsecured credit facility, with two one-year extension options, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.375% and is guaranteed by the Company and the assumption of $278.6 million cross-collateralized non-recourse mortgage debt with fixed interest rates ranging from 5.19% to 5.89%, encumbering 86 properties. The joint venture partner has pledged its equity interest for any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to pay. The outstanding balance on the three-year unsecured credit facility was $147.5 million as of December 31, 2009. The joint venture obtained an interest rate swap at 5.37% on $128.0 million of this debt. The swap is designated as a cash flow hedge and is deemed highly effective; as such adjustments to the swaps fair value are recorded at the joint venture level in other comprehensive income. 

During November 2007, the Company entered into a joint venture, in which the Company has a noncontrolling ownership interest, to acquire a property in Houston, Texas. This investment was funded with a $24.5 million unsecured credit facility scheduled to mature in November 2009, with a six-month extension option which was exercised in 2009 and thus the maturity date is now April 2010, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.375% and is guaranteed by the Company. The outstanding balance on this credit facility as of December 31, 2009 was $24.5 million. 

During April 2007, the Company entered into a joint venture, in which the Company has a 50% noncontrolling ownership interest to acquire a property in Visalia, CA. Subsequent to this acquisition the joint venture obtained a $6.0 million three-year promissory note which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.75% and has an extension option of two-years. This loan is jointly and severally guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this loan was $6.0 million. 

During 2006, an entity in which the Company has a preferred equity investment, located in Montreal, Canada, obtained a construction loan, which is collateralized by the respective land and project improvements. Additionally, the Company has provided a partial guaranty to the lender of up to CAD $45 million (approximately USD $42.7 million) and the developer partner has provided an indemnity to the Company for 25% of all payments the Company is obligated to pay. As of December 31, 2009, there was CAD $99.8 million (approximately USD $94.8 million) outstanding on this construction loan. 

In connection with the construction of its development projects and related infrastructure, certain public agencies require performance and surety bonds be posted to guarantee that the Company’s obligations are satisfied. These bonds expire upon the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately $52.8 million bonds outstanding. 

63 

Table of Contents 

Additionally, the RioCan Ventures have a CAD $7.0 million (approximately USD $6.6 million) letter of credit facility. This facility is jointly guaranteed by RioCan and the Company and had approximately CAD $4.9 million (approximately USD $4.6 million) outstanding as of December 31, 2009, relating to various development projects.  

Additionally, during 2005, the Company acquired three operating properties and one land parcel, through joint ventures, in which the Company holds 50% noncontrolling interests. Subsequent to these acquisitions, the joint ventures obtained four individual loans aggregating $20.4 million with interest rates ranging from LIBOR plus 1.00% to LIBOR plus 3.50%. During 2007, one of these properties was sold for a sales price of approximately $10.5 million, including the pay down of $5.0 million of debt. During 2008, one of the loans was increased by $2.0 million. During 2009 these loans were extended to mature in 2010 at an interest rate of LIBOR plus 2.75%. As of December 31, 2009, there was an aggregate of $17.3 million outstanding on these loans. These loans are jointly and severally guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner. 

During 2009, a joint venture in which the Company has a 50% noncontrolling ownership interest obtained a new three-year $53.0 million loan which bears interest at a rate of 7.85%. Proceeds from this mortgage and an additional $15.0 million capital contribution from the partners were used to repay $68.0 million in mortgage debt, which was scheduled to mature in 2009 and bore interest at rate of LIBOR plus 1.16%. This mortgage is jointly and severally guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this loan was $52.8 million. 

Additionally during 2009, a joint venture in which the Company has a 30% noncontrolling ownership interest obtained a new $59.0 million three-year mortgage loan, which bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 350 basis points. The Company and the holder of the remaining 70% ownership interest guarantee, jointly and severally, up to $10.0 million of this mortgage. As of December 31, 2009, the outstanding balance on this loan was $59.0 million. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures 

The Company has investments in various unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. These joint ventures operate either shopping center properties or are established for development projects. Such arrangements are generally with third-party institutional investors, local developers and individuals. The properties owned by the joint ventures are primarily financed with individual non-recourse mortgage loans, however, the Company, on a selective basis, obtains unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. These unsecured financings are guaranteed by the Company with guarantees from the joint venture partners for their proportionate amounts of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. Non-recourse mortgage debt is generally defined as debt whereby the lenders’ sole recourse with respect to borrower defaults is limited to the value of the property collateralized by the mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse aga inst any other assets owned by the borrower or any of the constituent members of the borrower, except for certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  

These investments include the following joint ventures: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) 

Ownership % is a blended rate. 

(b) 

See Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments regarding guarantees by the Company and its joint venture partners. 

64 

Table of Contents 

(c) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Prudential Real Estate Investors. 

(d) 

Represents the Kimco Income Operating Partnership, L.P., formed in 1998. 

(e) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with UBS Wealth Management North American Property Fund Limited. 

(f) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with SEB Immobilien Investment GmbH. 

(g) 

Represents the Kimco Income Fund, formed in 2004. 

(h) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Westmont Hospitality Group. 

(i) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust. 

(j) 

The Company’s share of this investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property cash flows.  

The Company has various other unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. As of December 31, 2009, these other unconsolidated joint ventures had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $2.0 billion and unsecured notes payable aggregating approximately $41.8 million. The aggregate debt of all unconsolidated real estate joint ventures is approximately $7.9 billion, of which the Company’s share of this debt was approximately $2.7 billion. These loans have scheduled maturities ranging from one month to 25 years and bear interest at rates ranging from 0.98% to 10.50% at December 31, 2009. Approximately $646.5 million of the outstanding loan balance matures in 2010, of which the Company’s share is approximately $187.5 million. These maturing loans are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, debt refinancing and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate. (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolid ated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Other Real Estate Investments 

The Company maintains a Preferred Equity program, which provides capital to developers and owners of real estate properties. The Company accounts for its preferred equity investments under the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity Program was approximately $418.4 million relating to 213 properties. As of December 31, 2009, these preferred equity investment properties had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $1.6 billion. Due to the Company’s preferred position in these investments, the Company’s share of each investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property cash flows. The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its preferred equity investments is primarily limited to its invested capital. 

Additionally, during July 2007, the Company invested approximately $81.7 million of preferred equity capital in a portfolio comprised of 403 net leased properties which are divided into 30 master leased pools with each pool leased to individual corporate operators. These properties consist of a diverse array of free-standing restaurants, fast food restaurants, convenience and auto parts stores. As of December 31, 2009, these properties were encumbered by third party loans aggregating approximately $418.5 million with interest rates ranging from 5.08% to 10.47% with a weighted average interest rate of 9.3% and maturities ranging from two years to 13 years.  

During June 2002, the Company acquired a 90% equity participation interest in an existing leveraged lease of 30 properties. The properties are leased under a long-term bond-type net lease whose primary term expires in 2016, with the lessee having certain renewal option rights. The Company’s cash equity investment was approximately $4.0 million. This equity investment is reported as a net investment in leveraged lease in accordance with the FASB’s Lease guidance. The net investment in leveraged lease reflects the original cash investment adjusted by remaining net rentals, estimated unguaranteed residual value, unearned and deferred income and deferred taxes relating to the investment. 

As of December 31, 2009, 18 of these leveraged lease properties were sold, whereby the proceeds from the sales were used to pay down the mortgage debt by approximately $31.2 million. As of December 31, 2009, the remaining 12 properties were encumbered by third-party non-recourse debt of approximately $38.4 million that is scheduled to fully amortize during the primary term of the lease from a portion of the periodic net rents receivable under the net lease. As an equity participant in the leveraged lease, the Company has no recourse obligation for principal or interest payments on the debt, which is collateralized by a first mortgage lien on the properties and collateral assignment of the lease. Accordingly, this debt has been offset against the related net rental receivable under the lease. 

Effects of Inflation 

Many of the Company's leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above pre-determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon changes in the  

65 

Table of Contents 

consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the Company's leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and will, from time-to-time, enter into interest rate protection agreements and/or foreign currency hedge agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate debt and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

Market and Economic Conditions; Real Estate and Retail Shopping Sector 

In the U.S., market and economic conditions have remained challenging. Although credit conditions have improved from the prior year, they remain volatile. During 2009, continued concerns about the systemic impact of the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and fluctuations in the real estate markets have contributed to continued market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. economy. These conditions, combined with low levels of business and consumer confidence and high unemployment have contributed to volatility and little to no growth in the U.S. and international economies. 

Historically, real estate has been subject to a wide range of cyclical economic conditions that affect various real estate markets and geographic regions with differing intensities and at different times. Different regions of the United States have and may continue to experience varying degrees of economic growth or distress. Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions could result in the inability of some tenants of the Company to meet their lease obligations and could otherwise adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract or retain tenants. The Company’s shopping centers are typically anchored by two or more national tenants who generally offer day-to-day necessities, rather than high-priced luxury items. In addition, the Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through ownership of a portfolio of properties with a diverse geographic and tenant base. 

The Company monitors potential credit issues of its tenants, and analyzes the possible effects to the financial statements of the Company and its unconsolidated joint ventures. In addition to the collectability assessment of outstanding accounts receivable, the Company evaluates the related real estate for recoverability as well as any tenant related deferred charges for recoverability, which may include straight-line rents, deferred lease costs, tenant improvements, tenant inducements and intangible assets. 

The retail shopping sector has been negatively affected by recent economic conditions, particularly in the Western United States (primarily California). These conditions may result in the Company’s tenants delaying lease commencements or declining to extend or renew leases upon expiration. These conditions also have forced some weaker retailers, in some cases, to declare bankruptcy and/or close stores. Certain retailers have announced store closings even though they have not filed for bankruptcy protection. However, any of these particular store closings affecting the Company often represent a small percentage of the Company’s overall gross leasable area and the Company does not currently expect store closings to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s overall performance.  

The decline in market conditions has also had a negative effect on real estate transactional activity as it relates to the acquisition and sale of real estate assets. The Company believes that the lack of real estate transactions will continue throughout 2010, which will curtail the Company’s growth in the near term. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance (the “Codification”) which established the FASB ASC as the source of authoritative GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities. This guidance was effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. On the effective date of this Statement, the Codification superseded all existing non-SEC accounting and reporting guidance. All other non-grandfathered non-SEC accounting literature not included in the Codification has become non-authoritative. The Company adopted the Codification during the third quarter of 2009 and as such has appropriately adjusted references to authoritative accounting literature appearing in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued additional Business Combinations guidance. The objective of this guidance is to improve the relevance, representational faithfulness and comparability of the information that a reporting entity provides in  

66 

Table of Contents 

its financial reports about a business combination and its effects. To accomplish that, this guidance establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer: (i) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, (ii) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase, (iii) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination and (iv) requires expensing of transaction costs associated with a business combination. This guidance applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. As of December 31, 2009 the adoption of this guidance has not had a material effect on the Co mpany’s financial position or results of operations. 

In April 2009, the FASB issued additional Business Combinations guidance, which amended and clarified the previous guidance to address application issues on initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting, and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination. This additional guidance has been applied prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009. As of December 31, 2009 the adoption of this guidance has not had a material effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued further Consolidations guidance, which establishes accounting and reporting standards that require the ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent be clearly identified, labeled and presented in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, but separate from the parent’s equity; the amount of consolidated net earnings attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest be clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of operations; changes in a parent’s ownership interest while the parent retains its controlling financial interest in its subsidiary be accounted for consistently; when a subsidiary is deconsolidated, any retained noncontrolling equity investment in the former subsidiary be initially measured at fair value; and entities provide sufficient disclosures that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. The objective of the guidance is to improve the relevance, comparability, and transparency of the financial information that a reporting entity provides in its consolidated financial statements. This guidance was effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. As required, the Company has retrospectively applied the presentation to its prior year balances in its Consolidated Financial Statements. The adoption of this guidance resulted in the recording of approximately $8.0 million in income on the Company’s Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 as a result of remeasuring the Company’s equity interests to fair value, in entities where there was a change in control. 

In March 2008, the FASB issued Derivatives and Hedging guidance, which amends and expands the previous disclosure requirements to require qualitative disclosure about objectives and strategies for using derivatives, quantitative disclosures about fair value amounts of and gains and losses on derivative instruments and disclosures about credit-risk-related contingent features in derivative agreements. This guidance is to be applied prospectively for the first annual reporting period beginning on or after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. This guidance also encourages, but does not require, comparative disclosures for earlier periods at initial adoption. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s disclosures. 

In April 2008, the FASB issued additional Intangibles-Goodwill and Other guidance, which amended the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset. The addition to the guidance is intended to improve the consistency between the useful life of an intangible asset and the period of expected cash flows used to measure the fair value of the asset. This additional guidance for determining the useful life of a recognized intangible asset shall be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after the effective date. The disclosure requirements in this guidance shall be applied prospectively to all intangible assets recognized as of, and subsequent to, the effective date. This guidance was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impac t on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

In June 2008, the FASB issued additional Earnings Per Share guidance, which classifies unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) as participating securities and requires them to be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. This guidance was effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. All prior-period earnings per share data presented are to be adjusted retrospectively. The Company’s adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

67 

Table of Contents 

In November 2008, the FASB issued Investments-Equity Method and Joint Ventures guidance that clarifies the accounting for certain transactions and impairment considerations involving equity method investments. This guidance applies to all investments accounted for under the equity method. It was effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning on or after December 15, 2008. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

In April 2009, the FASB issued Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures guidance that provides additional direction for estimating fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased. This guidance also includes information on identifying circumstances that indicate a transaction is not orderly. Additionally, this guidance emphasizes that even if there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability and regardless of the valuation technique(s) used, the objective of a fair value measurement remains the same. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction (that is, not a forced liquidation or distressed sale) between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. This guidance was effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009, and shall be appl ied prospectively. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.  

In April 2009, the FASB issued Investments-Debt and Equity Securities guidance, which amends the other-than-temporary impairment guidance in GAAP for debt securities to make the guidance more operational and to improve the presentation and disclosure of other-than-temporary impairments on debt and equity securities in the financial statements. This guidance does not amend existing recognition and measurement guidance related to other-than-temporary impairments of equity securities. The guidance shall be effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

In April 2009, the FASB issued Financial Instruments guidance, which amends previous guidance to require disclosures about fair value of financial instruments for interim reporting periods of publicly traded companies as well as in annual financial statements. It also requires those disclosures in summarized financial information at interim reporting periods. This guidance is effective for interim reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s disclosures. 

In May 2009, the FASB issued Subsequent Events guidance, which provides further direction to establish general standards of accounting for and disclosures of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. This guidance also requires entities to disclose the date through which subsequent events were evaluated as well as the rationale for why that date was selected. This disclosure should alert all users of financial statements that an entity has not evaluated subsequent events after that date in the set of financial statements being presented. This guidance was effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. The Company’s adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

In June 2009, the FASB issued Transfers and Servicing guidance, which amends the previous derecognition guidance and eliminates the exemption from consolidation for qualifying special-purpose entities. This guidance is effective for financial asset transfers occurring after the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2009. This guidance will be effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2010. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

In June 2009, the FASB issued Consolidation guidance, which amends the previous consolidation guidance applicable to variable interest entities. The amendments will significantly affect the overall consolidation analysis previously required. This guidance is effective as of the beginning of the first fiscal year that begins after November 15, 2009, early adoption is prohibited. It will be effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2010. The Company is currently assessing its joint venture investments to determine the impact the adoption of this guidance will have on the Company’s financial position and results of operations however, the Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

During January 2010, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2010-02, Consolidation guidance, which amends and clarifies that the decrease in ownership guidance provided in the Consolidation guidance does not apply to sales of in substance real estate. This update clarifies that an entity should apply the FASB’s real estate sales guidance to such transactions. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

68 

Table of Contents 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk