Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The Company’s primary market risk exposure is interest rate risk. The following table presents the Company’s aggregate fixed rate and variable rate domestic and foreign debt obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2009, with corresponding weighted-average interest rates sorted by maturity date. The table does not include extension options where available. Amounts include fair value purchase price allocation adjustments for assumed debt. The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is the Company’s reporting currency. The instruments’ actual cash flows are denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars and Mexican pesos as indicated by geographic description ($USD equivalent in millions). 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on the Company’s variable-rate debt balances, interest expense would have increased by approximately $4.2 million in 2009 if short-term interest rates were 1.0% higher. 

As of December 31, 2009, the Company had (i) Canadian investments totaling CAD $473.1 million (approximately USD $449.6 million) comprised of real estate joint venture investments and marketable securities, (ii) Mexican real estate investments of approximately MXP 8.5 billion (approximately USD $641.2 million), (iii) Chilean real estate investments of approximately 14.5 billion Chilean Pesos (approximately USD $27.2 million), (iv) Peruvian real estate investments of approximately 7.3 million Peruvian Nuevo Sol (approximately USD $2.5 million), (v) Brazilian real estate investments of approximately 53.0 million Brazilian Real (“BRL”) (approximately USD $30.5 million) and (vi) Australian investments in marketable securities of approximately AUD 191.1 million (approximately USD $149.4 million). The foreign currency exchange risk has been partially mitigated, but not eliminated, through the use of local currency denominated debt. The Company has not, and does not plan to, enter into any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has no other material exposure to market risk. 

69 

Table of Contents 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data