Item 1. Business 

General  

Kimco Realty Corporation, a Maryland corporation, is one of the nation's largest owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. The terms "Kimco," the "Company," "we," "our" and "us" each refer to Kimco Realty Corporation and our subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. The Company is a self-administered real estate investment trust ("REIT") and its management has owned and operated neighborhood and community shopping centers for more than 50 years. The Company has not engaged, nor does it expect to retain, any REIT advisors in connection with the operation of its properties. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had interests in 1,915 properties, totaling approximately 176.9 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”) located in 45 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Peru. The Company’s ownership interests in real estate consist o f its consolidated portfolio and in portfolios where the Company owns an economic interest, such as properties in the Company’s investment management programs, where the Company partners with institutional investors and also retains management (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The Company believes its portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping center properties is the largest (measured by GLA) currently held by any publicly traded REIT. 

The Company's executive offices are located at 3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde Park, New York 11042-0020 and its telephone number is (516) 869-9000.  

The Company’s Web site is located at http://www.kimcorealty.com. The information contained on our Web site does not constitute part of this annual report on Form 10-K. On the Company’s Web site you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable, after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). 

History  

The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco Corporation, which was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several shopping center properties owned by its principal stockholders. In 1973, these principals formed the  

3 

Table of Contents 

Company as a Delaware corporation, and, in 1985, the operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company completed its initial public stock offering (the "IPO") in November 1991, and, commencing with its taxable year which began January 1, 1992, elected to qualify as a REIT in accordance with Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In 1994, the Company reorganized as a Maryland corporation. 

The Company's growth through its first 15 years resulted primarily from the ground-up development and construction of its shopping centers. By 1981, the Company had assembled a portfolio of 77 properties that provided an established source of income and positioned the Company for an expansion of its asset base. At that time, the Company revised its growth strategy to focus on the acquisition of existing shopping centers and creating value through the redevelopment and re-tenanting of those properties. As a result of this strategy, a majority of the operating shopping centers added to the Company’s portfolio since 1981 have been through the acquisition of existing shopping centers. 

During 1998, the Company, through a merger transaction, completed the acquisition of The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation, (the "Price REIT"). Prior to the merger, Price REIT was a self-administered and self-managed equity REIT that was primarily focused on the acquisition, development, management and redevelopment of large retail community shopping center properties concentrated in the western part of the United States. In connection with the merger, the Company acquired interests in 43 properties, located in 17 states. With the completion of the Price REIT merger, the Company expanded its presence in certain western states including Arizona, California and Washington. In addition, Price REIT had strong ground-up development capabilities. These development capabilities, coupled with the Company’s own construction management expertise, provided the Company the ability to pursue ground-up development opportunities on a selective basis.  

Also during 1998, the Company formed Kimco Income Operating Partnership, L.P. ("KIR"), an entity in which the Company held a 99.99% limited partnership interest. KIR was established for the purpose of investing in high-quality properties financed primarily with individual non-recourse mortgages. The Company believed that these properties were appropriate for financing with greater leverage than the Company traditionally used. At the time of formation, the Company contributed 19 properties to KIR, each encumbered by an individual non-recourse mortgage. During 1999, KIR sold a significant interest in the partnership to institutional investors, thus establishing the Company’s investment management program. The Company holds a 45.0% noncontrolling limited partnership interest in KIR and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method of accounting. (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

The Company has expanded its investment management program through the establishment of other various institutional joint venture programs in which the Company has noncontrolling interests ranging generally from 5% to 45%. The Company’s largest joint venture, Kimco Prudential Joint Venture ("KimPru"), was formed in 2006, in connection with the Pan Pacific Retail Properties Inc. ("Pan Pacific") merger transaction, with Prudential Real Estate Investors ("PREI"). The Company earns management fees, acquisition fees, disposition fees and promoted interests based on value creation. (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

In connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the "RMA"), which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is permitted to participate in REIT activities from which it was previously precluded in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries under the Code, subject to certain limitations. As such, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiaries, has been engaged in various retail real estate related opportunities, including (i) ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion (see Recent Developments - Ground-Up Development), (ii) retail real estate advisory and disposition services, which primarily focused on leasing and disposition strategies for real estate property interests of both healthy and distressed retailers and (iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax-de ferred exchange transactions. The Company may consider other investments through taxable REIT subsidiaries should suitable opportunities arise. 

The Company has continued its geographic expansion with investments in Canada, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Chile, Brazil and Peru. During October 2001, the Company formed three joint ventures (collectively, the "RioCan Ventures") with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust ("RioCan", Canada’s largest publicly traded REIT measured by GLA) in which the Company has 50% noncontrolling interests, to acquire retail properties and development projects in Canada. The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method of accounting. The Company has expanded its presence in Canada with the establishment of other joint venture arrangements. During 2002, the Company, along with various strategic co-investment partners, began acquiring operating and development properties located in Mexico. During 2006, the Company acquired interests in shopping center properties located in Puerto Rico through joint ventures in which the Company holds controlling ownership intere sts.  

4 

Table of Contents 

During 2007, the Company acquired an interest in four shopping center properties located in Chile through a joint venture in which the Company holds a noncontrolling ownership interest. During 2008, the Company acquired interests in two shopping center properties in Brazil through a joint venture in which the Company holds a controlling ownership interest and a land parcel for ground-up development located in Peru through a joint venture in which the Company holds a controlling interest. (See Notes 4 and 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

In addition, the Company continues to capitalize on its established expertise in retail real estate by establishing other ventures in which the Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides management, leasing and operational support for those properties. The Company has also provided preferred equity capital in the past to real estate entrepreneurs and, from time to time, provides real estate capital and advisory services to both healthy and distressed retailers. The Company has also made selective investments in secondary market opportunities where a security or other investment is, in management’s judgment, priced below the value of the underlying assets, however these investments are subject to volatility within the equity and debt markets.  

Investment and Operating Strategy  

The Company's investment objective is to increase cash flow, current income and, consequently, the value of its existing portfolio of properties and to seek continued growth through (i) the strategic re-tenanting, renovation and expansion of its existing centers and (ii) the selective acquisition of established income-producing real estate properties and properties requiring significant re-tenanting and redevelopment, primarily in neighborhood and community shopping centers in geographic regions in which the Company presently operates. The Company may consider investments in other real estate sectors and in geographic markets where it does not presently operate should suitable opportunities arise. 

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties are designed to attract local area customers and typically are anchored by a discount department store, a supermarket or a drugstore tenant offering day-to-day necessities rather than high-priced luxury items. The Company may either purchase or lease income-producing properties in the future and may also participate with other entities in property ownership through partnerships, joint ventures or similar types of co-ownership. Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and/or other indebtedness. Financing or other indebtedness may be incurred simultaneously or subsequently in connection with such investments. Any such financing or indebtedness would have priority over the Company’s equity interest in such property. The Company may make loans to joint ventures in which it may or may not participate. 

In addition to property or equity ownership, the Company provides property management services for fees relating to the management, leasing, operation, supervision and maintenance of real estate properties. 

While the Company has historically held its properties for long-term investment and accordingly has placed strong emphasis on its ongoing program of regular maintenance, periodic renovation and capital improvement, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold, in whole or in part, as circumstances warrant, subject to REIT qualification rules. 

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and a large tenant base. As of December 31, 2009, no single neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for more than 1.2% of the Company's annualized base rental revenues or more than 1.0% of the Company’s total shopping center GLA. At December 31, 2009, the Company’s five largest tenants were The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings, Wal-Mart and Kohl’s, which represent approximately 3.3%, 2.6%, 2.5%, 2.2% and 2.0%, respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest. 

In connection with the RMA, which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company had expanded its investment and operating strategy to include new real estate-related opportunities which the Company was precluded from previously in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT. As such, the Company established a merchant building business through its wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which made selective acquisitions of land parcels for the ground-up development primarily of neighborhood and community shopping centers and subsequent sale thereof upon completion. During 2009, the Company changed its merchant building business strategy from a sale upon completion strategy to a long-term hold strategy for its remaining merchant building projects. Additionally, the Company had developed a business which specialized in providing capital, real estate advisory services and disposition services of real estate controlled by both healthy and distressed and/or bankrupt retailers. These services included assistance with inventory and fixture liquidation in connection with going-out-of-business sales. The Company may participate with other entities in providing these advisory services through partnerships, joint ventures or other co-ownership arrangements. The Company, as part of its investment strategy, may selectively seek investments for its taxable REIT subsidiaries as suitable opportunities arise. 

5 

Table of Contents 

The Company emphasizes equity real estate investments. The Company may at its discretion, invest in preferred equity investments, mortgages, other real estate interests and other investments. The mortgages in which the Company may invest may be either first mortgages, junior mortgages or other mortgage-related securities. The Company, from time to time, provides mortgage financing to retailers with significant real estate assets, in the form of leasehold interests or fee-owned properties, where the Company believes the underlying value of the real estate collateral is in excess of its loan balance. In addition, the Company may, on a selective basis, acquire debt instruments at a discount in the secondary market where the Company believes the asset value of the enterprise is greater than the current value, however these investments are subject to volatility within the equity and debt markets. 

The Company’s vision is to be the premier owner and operator of retail shopping centers with its core business operations focusing on owning and operating neighborhood and community shopping centers through equity investments in North America. This vision will entail a shift away from certain non-strategic assets that the Company currently holds. These investments include non-retail preferred equity investments, marketable securities, mortgages on non-retail properties and several urban mixed-use properties. The Company’s plan is to sell certain non-strategic assets and investments. The Company realizes that the sale of these assets will be over a period of time given the current unfavorable market conditions. In addition, the Company continues to be dedicated to building its institutional management business by forming joint ventures with high quality domestic and foreign institutional partners for the purpose of investing in neighborhood and comm unity shopping centers. 

The Company may offer shares of capital stock or other senior securities in exchange for property and to repurchase or otherwise reacquire its common stock or any other securities and may engage in such activities in the future. At all times, the Company intends to make investments in such a manner as to be consistent with the requirements of the Code to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes in the Code (or in Treasury Regulations), the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Company to qualify as a REIT. 

Capital Strategy and Resources 

The Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment-grade debt ratings of BBB+ from Standard and Poors and Baa1 from Moody's Investor Services. The Company plans to strengthen its balance sheet by pursuing deleveraging efforts over time. It is management's intention that the Company continually have access to the capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly, the Company may, from time-to-time, seek to obtain funds through additional common and preferred equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a conservative debt structure.  

Since the completion of the Company's IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $7.4 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have been used for repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments. The Company also has revolving credit facilities totaling approximately $1.7 billion available for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2009 the Company had approximately $139.5 million outstanding on these facilities.  

Capital markets continue to experience increased volatility. As available, the Company will continue to access these markets. In addition to capital markets, the Company had over 420 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio as of December 31, 2009. The Company has capacity within its bond and other debt covenants to raise up to $2.0 billion in secured financing on these unencumbered properties. 

In March 2006, the Company was added to the S & P 500 Index, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap companies, most of which are U.S. corporations. For further discussion regarding capital strategy and resources, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition - Financing Activities. 

Competition  

As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping center industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers, the Company has established close relationships with a large number of major national and regional retailers and maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is associated with and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry organizations. Notwithstanding these  

6 

Table of Contents 

relationships, there are numerous regional and local commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors who compete with the Company for the acquisition of properties and other investment opportunities and in seeking tenants who will lease space in the Company’s properties. 

Operating Practices 

Nearly all operating functions, including leasing, legal, construction, data processing, maintenance, finance and accounting, are administered by the Company from its executive offices in New Hyde Park, New York and supported by the Company’s regional offices. The Company believes it is critical to have a management presence in its principal areas of operation and, accordingly, the Company maintains regional offices in various cities throughout the United States. As of December 31, 2009, a total of 640 persons are employed at the Company's executive and regional offices. 

The Company's regional offices are generally staffed by a regional business leader and the operating personnel necessary to both function as local representatives for leasing and promotional purposes, to complement the corporate office’s administrative and accounting efforts and to ensure that property inspection and maintenance objectives are achieved. The regional offices are important in reducing the time necessary to respond to the needs of the Company's tenants. Leasing and maintenance personnel from the corporate office also conduct regular inspections of each shopping center. 

As of December 31, 2009, the Company also employs a total of 25 persons at several of its larger properties in order to more effectively administer its maintenance and security responsibilities. 

Qualification as a REIT  

The Company has elected, commencing with its taxable year which began January 1, 1992, to be taxed as a REIT under the Code. If, as the Company believes, it is organized and operates in such a manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT under the Code, the Company generally will not be subject to federal income tax, provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under the Code. 

Recent Developments 

The following describes the Company’s significant transactions and events that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2009. (See Item 8 and Notes 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Operating Properties - 

Acquisitions - 

During November 2009, the Company purchased the remaining 85% interest in PL Retail LLC, an entity that indirectly owns through wholly-owned subsidiaries 21 shopping centers, comprising approximately 5.2 million square feet of GLA, in which the Company held a 15% noncontrolling interest prior to this transaction. The Company paid a purchase price equal to approximately $175.0 million, after customary adjustments and closing prorations, which was equivalent to 85% of PL Retail LLC’s gross asset value, which equaled approximately $825 million, less the assumption of $564 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 20 properties and $50 million of perpetual preferred stock. The purchase price includes approximately $20 million for the purchase of development rights for one shopping center. This transaction resulted in a gain of approximately $7.6 million as a result of a change in control and remeasuring the Company’s 15% noncontrolling equity interes t to fair value. Subsequently, the Company repaid approximately $269 million of the non-recourse mortgage debt which encumbered 10 properties.  

During 2009, the Company acquired the remaining ownership interest in 11 unencumbered operating properties from a joint venture in which the Company held a 15% noncontrolling interest comprising an aggregate 1.5 million square feet of GLA for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $106.9 million.  

Additionally, during 2009, the Company acquired the remaining ownership interest in an operating property in which the Company held a 10% noncontrolling interest comprising 0.1 million square feet of GLA for a purchase price of approximately $23.6 million, including the assumption of a $13.5 million non-recourse mortgage. 

7 

Table of Contents 

Dispositions -  

During 2009, the Company disposed of, in separate transactions, portions of six operating properties and one land parcel for an aggregate sales price of approximately $28.9 million, which resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $4.1 million, net of income tax of approximately $0.2 million.  

Also during 2009, a consolidated joint venture in which the Company has a controlling interest disposed of a parcel of land for approximately $4.8 million and recognized a gain of approximately $4.4 million, before income taxes and noncontrolling interest. This gain has been recorded as Other income/(expense), net in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

Redevelopments - 

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. During 2009, the Company substantially completed the redevelopment and re-tenanting of various operating properties. The Company expended approximately $43.4 million in connection with these major redevelopments and re-tenanting projects during 2009. The Company is currently involved in redeveloping several other shopping centers in the existing portfolio. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects will be approximately $30.0 million to $40.0 million during 2010.  

Ground-Up Development - 

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consist of (i) U.S. ground-up development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (ii) various ground-up development projects located in Latin America for long-term investment (see Recent Developments - International Real Estate Investments and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). During 2009, the Company changed its merchant building business strategy from a sale upon completion strategy to a long-term hold strategy. Those properties previously considered merchant building have been either placed in service as long-term investment properties or included in U.S. ground-up development. The ground-up development projects generally have significant pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had in progress a total of 11 ground-up development projects, consisting of seven ground-up development projects located throughout Mexico, two ground-up development projects located in the U.S., one ground-up development project located in Chile, and one ground-up development project located in Brazil. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward its ground-up development projects will be approximately $50.0 million to $60.0 million during 2010. The availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit is expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital requirements. 

U.S. ground-up development - 

During 2009, the Company expended approximately $45.0 million in connection with construction costs related to U.S. ground-up development projects. Additionally, the Company purchased, in separate transactions, various partners’ interests in five former merchant building projects for an aggregate $9.9 million.  

Construction loans - 

During 2009, the Company fully repaid nine construction loans aggregating approximately $212.2 million. As of December 31, 2009, total loan commitments on the Company’s four remaining construction loans aggregated approximately $69.7 million of which approximately $45.8 million has been funded. These loans have scheduled maturities ranging from 11 months to 56 months (excluding any extension options which may be available to the Company) and bear interest at rates ranging from 2.13% to 4.50% at December 31, 2009. Approximately $3.4 million of the outstanding loan balance matures in 2010. These maturing loans are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, borrowings under the Company’s credit facilities and additional debt financings. In addition, the Company may pursue or exercise existing extension options with lenders where available. 

Dispositions - 

During 2009, the Company sold, in separate transactions, five out-parcels, four land parcels and three ground leases for aggregate proceeds of approximately $19.4 million. These transactions resulted in gains on sale of development properties of approximately $5.8 million, before income taxes of $2.3 million. 

8 

Table of Contents 

Kimsouth - 

During 2009, the Company acquired the remaining 7.5% interest in Kimsouth, a consolidated taxable REIT subsidiary in which the Company held a 92.5% controlling interest, for a purchase price of approximately $5.5 million. 

Investment and Advances in Real Estate Joint Ventures -  

The Company has various institutional and non-institutional joint venture programs in which the Company has various noncontrolling interests, which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Dispositions -  

During November 2009, the 85% owner in PL Retail, LLC, an entity that indirectly owns through wholly-owned subsidiaries 21 shopping centers, comprising approximately 5.2 million square feet of GLA, in which the Company held a 15% noncontrolling interest prior to this transaction, sold its interest to the Company. The Company paid a purchase price equal to approximately $175.0 million, after customary adjustments and closing prorations, which was equivalent to 85% of PL Retail LLC’s gross asset value, which equaled approximately $825 million, less the assumption of $564 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 20 properties and $50 million of perpetual preferred stock. This transfer resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $57.5 million of which the Company’s share was approximately $8.6 million. As a result of this transaction the Company now consolidates this entity.  

Additionally, during 2009, KimPru sold 22 operating properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $214.0 million, comprised of (i) 11 operating properties sold to the Company for an aggregate sales price of approximately $106.9 million which resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $0.9 million of which the Company’s share was approximately $0.1 million and (ii) 11 operating properties and its interest in an unconsolidated joint venture, sold in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $107.1 million. These sales resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $0.1 million. Proceeds from these property sales were used to repay a portion of the outstanding balance on KimPru’s credit facility, described below.  

Also, during 2009, a joint venture in which the Company held a 10% noncontrolling interest sold one operating property comprising 0.1 million square feet of GLA to the Company for a purchase price of approximately $23.6 million, including the assumption of a $13.5 million non-recourse mortgage. This sale resulted in a gain of approximately $3.4 million of which the Company’s share was approximately $0.3 million. 

Financings - 

During 2009, joint ventures in which the Company has noncontrolling interests (i) repaid approximately $113.8 million in non-recourse mortgage debt with interest rates ranging from 2.75% to 8.30%, (ii) refinanced approximately $212.9 million in mortgage debt with approximately $226.6 million of new mortgage debt which bear interest at rates ranging from 6.64% to 7.88% and maturity dates ranging from three years to seven years, and (iii) obtained new mortgage debt on previously unencumbered properties of approximately $214.0 million with interest rates ranging from 3.75% to 7.85% and maturity dates ranging from three to ten years.  

International Real Estate Investments -  

Canadian Investments - 

The Company recognized equity in income from its unconsolidated Canadian investments in real estate joint ventures of approximately $12.2 million, $18.6 million and $22.5 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, income from its Canadian preferred equity investments was approximately $12.9 million, $23.2 million, $35.1 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

During 2009, an unconsolidated Canadian joint venture in which the Company has a 50% noncontrolling interest refinanced approximately $30.3 million in mortgage debt with approximately $46.1 million in mortgage debt which bears interest at rates ranging from 5.90% to 6.82% and maturity dates ranging from five years to ten years. 

9 

Table of Contents 

Latin American Investments - 

During 2009, the Company acquired a land parcel located in Rio Clara, Brazil through a newly formed consolidated joint venture in which the Company has a 70% controlling ownership interest for a purchase price of 3.3 million Brazilian Reals (approximately USD $1.5 million). This parcel will be developed into a 48,000 square foot retail shopping center. 

Additionally, during 2009, the Company acquired a land parcel located in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, through an unconsolidated joint venture in which the Company has a noncontrolling interest, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $0.8 million.  

The Company recognized equity in income from its unconsolidated Mexican investments in real estate joint ventures of approximately $7.0 million, $17.1 million, and $5.2 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

The Company recognized equity in income from its unconsolidated Chilean investments in real estate joint ventures of approximately $0.4 million, $0.2 and $0.1 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 

The Company’s revenues from its consolidated Mexican subsidiaries aggregated approximately $23.4 million, $20.3 million, $8.5 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The Company’s revenues from its consolidated Brazilian subsidiaries aggregated approximately $1.5 million and $0.4 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Company’s revenues from its consolidated Chilean subsidiaries aggregated less than $100,000 during 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

Mortgages and Other Financing Receivables - 

During 2009, the Company provided financing to five borrowers for an aggregate amount of approximately $8.3 million. During 2009, the Company received an aggregate of approximately $40.4 million which fully paid down the outstanding balance on four mortgage receivables. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had 37 loans with total commitments of up to $178.9 million, of which approximately $131.3 million has been funded. Availability under the Company’s revolving credit facilities are expected to be sufficient to fund these remaining commitments. (See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)  

Asset Impairments – 

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the Company’s assets (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may be impaired. To the extent impairment has occurred, the carrying value of the asset would be adjusted to an amount to reflect the estimated fair value of the asset. 

During 2009, economic conditions had continued to experience volatility resulting in further declines in the real estate and equity markets. Year over year increases in capitalization rates, discount rates and vacancies as well as the deterioration of real estate market fundamentals, negatively impacted net operating income and leasing which further contributed to declines in real estate markets in general.  

As a result of the volatility and declining market conditions described above, as well as the Company’s strategy in relation to certain of its non-retail assets, the Company recognized non-cash impairment charges during 2009, aggregating approximately $175.1 million, before income tax benefit of approximately $22.5 million and noncontrolling interests of approximately $1.2 million. Details of these non-cash impairment charges are as follows (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(See Notes 2, 6, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

10 

Table of Contents 

In addition to the impairment charges above, the Company recognized impairment charges during 2009 of approximately $38.7 million, before income tax benefit of approximately $11.0 million, relating to certain properties held by unconsolidated joint ventures in which the Company holds noncontrolling interests ranging from 15% to 45%. These impairment charges are included in Equity in income of joint ventures, net in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations.  

Financing Transactions - 

During December 2009, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of 28,750,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. The net proceeds from this sale of common stock, totaling approximately $345.1 million (after related transaction costs of $0.75 million) were used to partially repay the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility. 

During September 2009, the Company issued $300.0 million of 10-year Senior Unsecured Notes at an interest rate of 6.875% payable semi-annually in arrears. These notes were sold at 99.84% of par value. Net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $297.3 million, after related transaction costs of approximately $0.3 million. The proceeds from this issuance were primarily used to repay the Company’s $220.0 million unsecured term loan described below. The remaining proceeds were used to repay certain construction loans that were scheduled to mature in 2010 (see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  

During April 2009, the Company completed a primary public stock offering of 105,225,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. The net proceeds from this sale of common stock, totaling approximately $717.3 million (after related transaction costs of $0.7 million) were used to partially repay the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes.  

During April 2009, the Company obtained a two-year $220.0 million unsecured term loan with a consortium of banks, which accrued interest at a spread of 4.65% to LIBOR (subject to a 2% LIBOR floor) or at the Company’s option, at a spread of 3.65% to the “ABR,” as defined in the Credit Agreement. The term loan was scheduled to mature in April 2011. The Company utilized proceeds from this term loan to partially repay the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. revolving credit facility and for general corporate purposes. During September 2009, the Company fully repaid the $220.0 million outstanding balance on this loan.  

During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company repaid (i) its $130.0 million 6.875% senior notes, which matured on February 10, 2009, (ii) its $20.0 million 7.56% Medium Term Note, which matured in May 2009 and (iii) its $25.0 million 7.06% Medium Term Note, which matured in July 2009.  

During 2009, the Company (i) obtained an aggregate of approximately $400.2 of non-recourse mortgage debt on 21 operating properties, (ii) assumed approximately $579.2 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the acquisition of 22 operating properties, including approximately $1.6 million of fair value debt adjustments and (iii) paid off approximately $437.7 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt that encumbered 24 operating properties. 

For further discussion regarding financing transactions see Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition - Financing Activities and Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments. (See Notes 12, 13, 14 and 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Exchange Listings 

The Company's common stock, Class F Depositary Shares and Class G Depositary Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the trading symbols "KIM", "KIMprF" and “KIMprG”, respectively. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors