PART I  

Item 1. Business  

Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative products and services around the world. We have approximately 32,000 employees worldwide. Textron Inc. was founded in 1923 and reincorporated in Delaware on July 31, 1967. Unless otherwise indicated, references to “Textron Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to Textron Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

We conduct our business through five operating segments: Cessna, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial, which represent our manufacturing businesses, and Finance, which represents our finance business. A description of the business of each of our segments is set forth below. Our business segments include operations that are unincorporated divisions of Textron Inc. and others that are separately incorporated subsidiaries. Financial information by business segment and geographic area appears in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 82 through 84 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 19 through 40 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated.  

Cessna Segment  

Cessna is the world’s leading general aviation company based on unit sales with two principal lines of business: Aircraft sales and aftermarket services. Aircraft sales include Citation jets, Caravan single-engine utility turboprops, single-engine piston aircraft and lift solutions by CitationAir. Aftermarket services include parts, maintenance, inspection and repair services. Revenues in the Cessna segment accounted for approximately 26%, 24% and 32% of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenues for Cessna’s principal lines of business were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The family of jets currently produced by Cessna includes the Mustang, Citation CJ2+, Citation CJ3, Citation CJ4, Citation XLS+, Citation Sovereign and Citation X. Deliveries of the new Citation TEN model, with updated design and performance from the Citation X, are expected to begin in the second half of 2013. In addition, Cessna announced two new aircraft in 2011: the Citation M2 and the Citation Latitude. The Citation M2 is positioned between the Mustang and the CJ2+ and is expected to receive Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification and begin deliveries in 2013. The Citation Latitude is positioned between the Citation XLS+ and the Sovereign and is expected to receive FAA certification and enter into service in 2015.  

The Cessna Caravan is the world’s best-selling utility turboprop. Caravans are offered in four models: the Grand Caravan, the Super Cargomaster, the Caravan 675 and the Caravan Amphibian. Caravans are used in the United States primarily for overnight express package shipments and for personal transportation. International uses of Caravans include humanitarian flights, tourism and freight transport. Cessna offers eight models in its single-engine piston product line, which include the two-place Skycatcher, the four-place Skyhawk, Skyhawk SP, Skylane and Turbo Skylane, the six-place Stationair and Turbo Stationair and the Corvalis TTX, deliveries of which are expected to begin in 2012.  

The Citation family of aircraft currently is supported by 10 Citation Service Centers owned or operated by Cessna or co-located with Bell Helicopter, along with authorized independent service stations and centers located in more than 27 countries throughout the world. Cessna-owned Service Centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Cessna also provides around-the-clock parts support for Citation aircraft. Cessna recently developed an array of service options for Citation aircraft, known as SERVICEDIRECT®, which delivers service capabilities directly to customer locations, including a Mobile Service Unit fleet of 16 vehicles in North America and two in Europe. Cessna Caravan and single-engine piston customers receive product support through independently owned service stations and around-the-clock parts support through Cessna.  

Cessna markets its products worldwide through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives, depending upon the product line. Cessna has several competitors domestically and internationally in various market segments. Cessna’s aircraft compete with other aircraft that vary in size, speed, range, capacity and handling characteristics on the basis of price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Cessna’s private jet business called CitationAir provides a spectrum of private aviation lift solutions, including Jet Card, Jet Access, Jet Shares, Jet Management and Corporate Solutions. The CitationAir fleet operates throughout the contiguous U.S. and in Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, the Bahamas and Bermuda.  

Bell Segment  

Bell Helicopter is one of the leading suppliers of military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and services in the world. Revenues for Bell accounted for approximately 31%, 31% and 27% of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Revenues by Bell’s principal lines of business were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and support to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the United States. Bell’s primary U.S. Government programs are the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters. Bell is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters to the U.S. Government and, in association with The Boeing Company (Boeing), the only supplier of military tiltrotor aircraft. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. Through its strategic alliance with Boeing, Bell produces and supports the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft for the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). The U.S. Marine Corps H-1 helicopter program includes a utility model and an advanced attack model, the UH-1Y and the AH-1Z, respectively, which have 84% parts commonality between them. Bell also continues to support the OH-58D Kiowa Warrior helicopter.  

Through its commercial business, Bell is a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters and support to corporate, offshore petroleum exploration and development, utility, charter, police, fire, rescue, emergency medical helicopter operators and foreign governments. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types, including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The helicopters currently produced by Bell for commercial applications include the 206L-4, 407, 412, 429 and Huey II, as well as the newly-introduced 407AH and 407GX. Bell also just announced the 525 Relentless, its first super medium twin jet-engine commercial helicopter.  

For both its military programs and its commercial products, Bell provides post-sale support and service for its installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters through a network of Bell-owned service sites, service and parts facilities co-located with Cessna, more than 110 independent service centers and six supply centers that are located worldwide. Collectively, these service sites offer a complete range of logistics support, including parts, support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repair and overhaul, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, aircraft customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field service and product support engineering.  

Bell competes against a number of competitors based in the U.S. and other countries for its helicopter business, and its parts and support business competes against numerous competitors around the world. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support, performance and reputation.  

Textron Systems Segment  

Textron Systems’ product lines consist of unmanned aircraft systems, land and marine systems, weapons and sensors and a variety of defense and aviation mission support products and services. Textron Systems is a supplier to the defense, aerospace, homeland security and general aviation markets, and represents approximately 17%, 19% and 18% of Textron’s revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. While this segment sells most of its products to U.S. Government customers, it also sells products to customers outside the U.S. through foreign military sales sponsored by the U.S. Government and directly through commercial sales channels. Textron Systems competes on the basis of technology, contract performance, price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation. Revenues by Textron Systems’ product lines were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

3  

Table of Contents 

Unmanned Aircraft Systems  

Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS) consists of the AAI UAS and AAI Logistics & Technical Services businesses. AAI UAS is the prime system integrator for the U.S. Army’s premier tactical UAS, the Shadow, which includes the One System Ground Control Station — the U.S. Army’s standard for interoperability of unmanned airborne assets. AAI Logistics & Technical Services provides logistical support for various unmanned aircraft systems including field operational and maintenance service support, training and supply chain services to government and commercial customers worldwide.  

Land and Marine Systems  

The Land and Marine Systems business is operated as Textron Marine & Land Systems (TMLS). TMLS is a world leader in the design, production and support of Armored Security Vehicles (ASV), turrets and related subsystems and advance marine craft. TMLS produces ASVs and its variants for the U.S. Army and international allies.  

Weapons and Sensors  

The Weapons and Sensors business is operated as Textron Defense Systems (TDS). This business consists of state-of-the-art smart weapons; airborne and ground-based sensors and surveillance systems; and protection systems for the defense, aerospace and homeland security communities. TDS is the U.S. Air Force’s prime contractor for the Sensor Fuzed Weapon and the U.S. Army’s lead provider for networked munitions systems.  

Mission Support and Other  

Mission Support and Other includes three businesses: AAI Test & Training, Lycoming and Textron Systems Advanced Systems. AAI Test & Training provides training and simulation systems and automated aircraft test and maintenance equipment. Lycoming specializes in the engineering, manufacture, service and support of piston aircraft engines for the general aviation market. Textron Systems Advanced Systems brings together cutting-edge technologies and innovations to deliver reliable, affordable security, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance solutions. Its strategic business, Overwatch, is a leading provider of intelligence software solutions for U.S. and international defense, intelligence and law enforcement communities.  

Industrial Segment  

Our Industrial segment designs and manufactures a variety of products under three principal product lines. Industrial segment revenues were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fuel Systems and Functional Components  

Our Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line is operated by our Kautex business unit, which is headquartered in Bonn, Germany. Kautex is a leading developer and manufacturer of blow-molded plastic fuel systems for cars, light trucks, all-terrain vehicles, windshield and headlamp washer systems for automobiles and selective catalytic reduction systems used to reduce emissions from diesel engines. Kautex serves the global automobile market, with operating facilities near its major customers around the world. In addition, Kautex produces cast iron engine camshafts in North America. From facilities in Germany and Poland, Kautex develops and produces plastic bottles and containers for food, household, laboratory and industrial uses. Revenues of Kautex accounted for approximately 16%, 16% and 12% of our total revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Our automotive products have a limited number of competitors worldwide, some of which are affiliated with the original equipment manufacturers that comprise our targeted customer base. Competition typically is based on a number of factors including price, product quality and reliability, prior experience and available manufacturing capacity.  

Golf and Turf Care  

Our Golf and Turf Care product line includes the products manufactured by our E-Z-GO and Jacobsen business units. E-Z-GO designs, manufactures and sells golf cars and off-road utility vehicles powered by electric and internal combustion engines and electric on-road low speed vehicles under the E-Z-GO and Cushman brand names, as well as multipurpose utility vehicles and off-road vehicles under the E-Z-GO, Cushman and Bad Boy Buggies brand names. E-Z-GO’s diversified customer base consists primarily of golf courses, resort communities and municipalities, consumers, and commercial and industrial users such as airports, college campuses and factories. Sales are made factory direct and through distributors and dealers worldwide. E-Z-GO has two major competitors for golf cars and several other competitors for off-road, on-road and multipurpose utility vehicles. Competition is based primarily on price, product quality and reliability, product support and reputation.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Jacobsen designs, manufactures and sells professional turf-maintenance equipment, as well as specialized turf-care vehicles. Brand names include Ransomes, Jacobsen and Cushman. Jacobsen’s customers include golf courses, resort communities, sporting venues and municipalities. Products are sold primarily through a worldwide network of distributors and dealers, as well as factory direct. Jacobsen has two major competitors for professional turf-maintenance equipment and several other competitors for specialized turf-care products. Competition is based primarily on price, product features, product quality and reliability and product support.  

Powered Tools, Testing and Measurement Equipment  

We design and manufacture Powered Tools, Testing and Measurement Equipment through our Greenlee business unit. Greenlee designs and manufactures powered equipment, electrical test and measurement instruments, hand and hydraulic powered tools, and electrical and fiber optic assemblies under the Greenlee, Klauke, Paladin Tools and Tempo brand names. These products principally are used in the electrical construction, maintenance, telecommunications, data communications, wiring, utility and plumbing industries. Greenlee distributes its products through a global network of sales representatives and distributors and sells its products directly to home improvement retailers and original equipment manufacturers. Through joint ventures, Greenlee also sells hand and powered tools for the plumbing and mechanical industries in North America and hand tools for the home center, construction, industrial manufacturing and automotive channels in China. The Greenlee businesses face competition from numerous manufacturers based primarily on price, product quality and reliability.  

Finance Segment  

Our Finance segment, or the Finance group, is a commercial finance business that consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) and its consolidated subsidiaries, along with three other finance subsidiaries owned by Textron Inc. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we announced a plan to exit the non-captive portion of the commercial finance business of our Finance segment while retaining the captive portion of the business that supports customer purchases of products that we manufacture. The non-captive portion of this business is based primarily in North America and includes the following product lines: Golf Mortgage, Timeshare and Structured Capital. The exit plan is being effected through a combination of orderly liquidation and selected sales. During 2011, we reduced our total finance receivable portfolio by $1.7 billion primarily through liquidations, mark-to-market adjustments on certain portfolios and impairments. Depending on market conditions, we expect continued progress in liquidating the remaining $950 million in the non-captive portfolio over the next several years.  

Our Finance segment continues to originate new customer relationships and finance receivables in the captive finance business, which provides financing primarily for new Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters and, to a limited extent, for new E-Z-GO and Jacobsen golf and turf-care equipment. We also provide financing to purchasers of pre-owned Cessna aircraft and Bell helicopters on a limited basis. The majority of new finance receivables are originated outside the United States. New originations in the U.S. are primarily for purchasers who have had difficulty in accessing other sources of financing for the purchase of Textron-manufactured products.  

In 2011, 2010 and 2009, our Finance group paid our Manufacturing group $284 million, $416 million and $654 million, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties that were financed by the Finance group. Our Cessna and Industrial segments also received proceeds in those years of $2 million, $10 million and $13 million, respectively, from the sale of equipment from their manufacturing operations to our Finance group for use under operating lease agreements.  

The commercial finance business traditionally is extremely competitive. Our Finance segment is subject to competition from various types of financing institutions, including banks, leasing companies, commercial finance companies and finance operations of equipment vendors. Competition within the commercial finance industry primarily is focused on price, term, structure and service.  

Our Finance segment’s largest business risk is the collectability of its finance receivable portfolio. See “Finance Portfolio Quality” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” on pages 30 and 31 for a discussion of the credit quality of this portfolio.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Backlog  

Our backlog at the end of 2011 and 2010 is summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * As disclosed in our Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2011, backlog at January 1, 2011 has been revised from the amount previously reported, primarily to correct an error made in 2009 when the full value of a V-22 contract was included in backlog rather than Bell’s proportionate share.  

Approximately 54% of our total backlog at December 31, 2011 represents orders that are not expected to be filled in 2012. Orders from Cessna customers, which cover a wide spectrum of industries worldwide, are included in backlog when the customer enters into a definitive purchase agreement and the initial customer deposit is received. We work with our customers to provide estimated delivery dates, which may be adjusted based on the customers’ needs or our production schedule, but do not establish definitive delivery dates until approximately six months before expected delivery. There is considerable uncertainty as to when or whether backlog will convert to revenues as the conversion depends on production capacity, customer needs and credit availability; these factors also may be impacted by the economy and public perceptions of private corporate jet usage. While backlog is an indicator of future revenues, we cannot reasonably estimate the year each order in backlog ultimately will result in revenues and cash flows. Orders remain in backlog until the aircraft is delivered or upon cancellation by the customer. Upon cancellation, deposits are used to defray costs, including remarketing fees, cost to reconfigure the aircraft and other costs incurred as a result of the cancellation. Remaining deposits, if any, may be retained or refunded at our discretion.  

Backlog with the U.S. Government in the above table includes only funded amounts as the U.S. Government is obligated only up to the amount of funding formally appropriated for a contract. Bell’s backlog includes $3.8 billion related to a multi-year procurement contract with the U.S. Government for the purchase of V-22 tiltrotor aircraft.  

U.S. Government Contracts  

In 2011, approximately 31% of our consolidated revenues were generated by or resulted from contracts with the U.S. Government. This business is subject to competition, changes in procurement policies and regulations, the continuing availability of funding, which is dependent upon congressional appropriations, national and international priorities for defense spending, world events, and the size and timing of programs in which we may participate.  

Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including, if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and an amount for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government will not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and will be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; and (c) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Research and Development  

Information regarding our research and development expenditures is contained in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 54 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Patents and Trademarks  

We own, or are licensed under, numerous patents throughout the world relating to products, services and methods of manufacturing. Patents developed while under contract with the U.S. Government may be subject to use by the U.S. Government. We also own or license active trademark registrations and pending trademark applications in the U.S. and in various foreign countries or regions, as well as trade names and service marks. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole. Some of these trademarks, trade names and service marks are used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, including: AAI; AH-1Z; Bad Boy Buggies; Bell Helicopter; Bravo; Cadillac Gage; Caravan; Caravan Amphibian; Caravan 675; Cessna; Cessna 350; Cessna 400; Cessna Corvalis TTX; Citation; CitationAir; CitationAir Jetcard; Citation Encore+; Citation Latitude; Citation M2; Citation Sovereign; Citation TEN; Citation X; Citation XLS+; CJ1+; CJ2+; CJ3; CJ4; Clairity; CLAW; Corvalis; Cushman; Eclipse; Excel; E-Z-GO; Grand Caravan; Greenlee; H-1; Huey; Huey II; IE2; Jacobsen; Kautex; Kiowa Warrior; Klauke; Lycoming; M1117 ASV; McCauley; Mustang; Next Generation Fuel System; NGFS; Overwatch; Paladin; PDCue; Power Advantage; Progressive; ProParts; Relentless; Rothenberger LLC; RXV; Sensor Fuzed Weapon; SERVICEDIRECT; Shadow; SkyBOOKS; Skycatcher; Skyhawk; Skyhawk SP; Skylane; SkyPLUS; Sovereign; Stationair; ST 4X4; Super Cargomaster; SuperCobra; SYMTX; TDCue; Tempo; Textron; Textron Defense Systems; Textron Financial Corporation; Textron Marine & Land Systems; Textron Systems; Turbo Skylane; Turbo Stationair; UAV SYSTEMS SPECIALIST; UH-1Y; V-22 Osprey; 2FIVE; 206; 407; 407AH; 407GX; 412 and 429. These marks and their related trademark designs and logotypes (and variations of the foregoing) are trademarks, trade names or service marks of Textron Inc., its subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures.  

Environmental Considerations  

Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment. Compliance with these laws and expenditures for environmental control facilities has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Additional information regarding environmental matters is contained in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 81 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

We do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on our business or markets nor on our results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. We will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area.  

Employees  

At December 31, 2011, we had approximately 32,000 employees.  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 23, 2012.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mr. Donnelly joined Textron in June 2008 as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer in January 2009. He was appointed to the Board of Directors in October 2009 and became Chief Executive Officer of Textron in December 2009, at which time the Chief Operating Officer position was eliminated. In July 2010, Mr. Donnelly was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors effective September 1, 2010. Previously, Mr. Donnelly was the President and CEO of General Electric Company’s Aviation business unit, a position he had held since July 2005. GE’s Aviation business unit is a $16 billion maker of commercial and military jet engines and components, as well as integrated digital, electric power and mechanical systems for aircraft. Prior to July 2005, Mr. Donnelly served as Senior Vice President of GE Global Research, one of the world’s largest and most diversified industrial research organizations with facilities in the U.S., India, China and Germany and held various other management positions since joining General Electric in 1989.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Mr. Butler joined Textron in July 1997 as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer and became Executive Vice President Administration and Chief Human Resources Officer in January 1999.  

Mr. Connor joined Textron in August 2009 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Previously, Mr. Connor was head of Telecom Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs & Co from 2003 to 2008. Prior to that position, he served as Chief Operating Officer of Telecom, Technology and Media Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Connor joined the Corporate Finance Department of Goldman, Sachs in 1986 and became a Vice President in 1990 and a Managing Director in 1996.  

Mr. Lupone joined Textron in February 2012 as Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer. Previously, he was senior vice president and general counsel of Siemens Corporation (U.S.) since 1999 and general counsel of Siemens AG for the Americas since 2008. Prior to joining Siemens in 1992, Mr. Lupone was vice president and general counsel of Price Communications Corporation.  

Available Information  

We make available free of charge on our Internet Web site (www.textron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

Forward-Looking Information  

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, which may describe strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures, often include words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend”, “plan,” “estimate,” “guidance”, “project”, “target”, “potential”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “likely” or “may” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors described herein under “RISK FACTORS,” factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results are the following:  

   •    Changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget, including those related to military operations in foreign countries;  

   •    Changes in worldwide economic or political conditions that impact demand for our products, interest rates or foreign exchange rates;  

   •    Our ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the U.S. Government;  

   •    The U.S. Government’s ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us for the U.S. Government’s convenience or for our failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, or, under certain circumstances, to withhold payment or suspend or debar us as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards;  

   •    Changes in foreign military funding priorities or budget constraints and determinations, or changes in government regulations or policies on the export and import of military and commercial products;  

   •    Our Finance segment’s ability to maintain portfolio credit quality or to realize full value of receivables and of assets acquired upon foreclosure of receivables;  

   •    Our ability to access the capital markets at reasonable rates;  

   •    Performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors or business partners;  

   •    Legislative or regulatory actions impacting our operations or demand for our products;  

   •    Our ability to control costs and successfully implement various cost-reduction activities;  

   •    The efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products or unanticipated expenses in connection with the launching of significant new products or programs;  

   •    The timing of our new product launches or certifications of our new aircraft products;  

   •    Our ability to keep pace with our competitors in the introduction of new products and upgrades with features and technologies desired by our customers;  

   •    The extent to which we are able to pass raw material price increases through to customers or offset such price increases by reducing other costs;  

   •    Increases in pension expenses or employee and retiree medical benefits;  

   •    Uncertainty in estimating reserves, including reserves established to address contingent liabilities, unrecognized tax  

8  

Table of Contents 

     benefits, or potential losses on our Finance segment’s receivables;  

   •    Difficult conditions in the financial markets which may adversely impact our customers’ ability to fund or finance purchases of our products; and  

   •    Continued volatility in the economy resulting in a prolonged downturn in the markets in which we do business.  

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS