PART I   

Item 1. Business 

CSX Corporation (“CSX”), and together with its subsidiaries (the “Company”), based in Jacksonville, Florida, is one of the nation's leading transportation suppliers. The Company provides rail-based transportation services including traditional rail service and the transport of intermodal containers and trailers. 

CSX Transportation, Inc. 

CSX’s principal operating subsidiary, CSX Transportation, Inc. (“CSXT”), provides an important link to the transportation supply chain through its approximately 21,000 route mile rail network, which serves major population centers in 23 states east of the Mississippi River, the District of Columbia and the Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec. It serves over 70 ocean, river and lake ports along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, the Mississippi River, the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence Seaway. CSXT also serves thousands of production and distribution facilities through track connections to approximately 240 short-line and regional railroads. 

Lines of Business 

  During 2010, CSXT’s transportation services generated $10.6 billion of revenue and served three primary lines of business: 

  ·    The merchandise business shipped nearly 2.6 million carloads and generated approximately 54% of revenue and 40% of volume in 2010. The Company’s merchandise business is the most diverse market and transports aggregates (which includes crushed stone, sand and gravel), metal, phosphate, fertilizer, food, consumer (manufactured goods and appliances), agricultural, automotive, paper and chemical products.    

  ·     The coal business shipped 1.6 million carloads and accounted for 31% of revenue and 25% of volume in 2010. The Company transports utility, industrial and export coal to electricity-generating power plants, steel manufacturers, industrial plants and deep-water port facilities. Roughly three of every four tons of domestic coal and almost half of the export coal that the Company transports is used for generating electricity.    

  ·     The intermodal business accounted for approximately 12% of revenue and 35% of volume in 2010. The intermodal line of business combines the superior economics of rail transportation with the short-haul flexibility of trucks and offers a competitive cost advantage over long-haul trucking. Through its network of more than 50 terminals, the intermodal business serves all major markets east of the Mississippi and transports mainly manufactured consumer goods in containers, providing customers with truck-like service for longer shipments.    

3 

Table of Contents 

CSX CORPORATION 

PART I  

Other revenue accounted for 3% of the Company’s total revenue in 2010. This revenue category includes revenue from regional subsidiary railroads, demurrage, revenue for customer volume commitments not met, switching and other incidental charges. Revenue from regional railroads includes shipments by railroads that the Company does not directly operate. Demurrage represents charges assessed when freight cars are held beyond a specified period of time. Switching revenue is generated when CSXT switches cars between trains for a customer or another railroad. 

Other Entities 

In addition to CSXT, the Company’s subsidiaries include CSX Intermodal Terminals, Inc. (“CSX Intermodal Terminals”), Total Distribution Services, Inc. (“TDSI”), Transflo Terminal Services, Inc. (“Transflo”), CSX Technology, Inc. (“CSX Technology”) and other subsidiaries. The Company’s intermodal business links customers to railroads via trucks and terminals. CSX Intermodal Terminals owns and operates a system of intermodal terminals, predominantly in the eastern United States and also performs drayage services (the pickup and delivery of intermodal shipments) and trucking dispatch operations. TDSI serves the automotive industry with distribution centers and storage locations. Transflo connects non-rail served customers to the many benefits of rail by transferring products, such as ethanol and minerals, from rail to trucks. CSX Technology and other subsidiaries provide support services for the Company. 

CSX’s other holdings include CSX Real Property, Inc., a subsidiary responsible for the Company’s real estate sales, leasing, acquisition and management and development activities. These activities are classified in other income because they are not considered by the Company to be operating activities. Results of these activities fluctuate with the timing of non-operating real estate sales. 

CSX Intermodal, Inc. (“Intermodal”) was a subsidiary of CSX until it merged with CSXT during 2010. Prior to the merger, Intermodal was the parent company of CSX Intermodal Terminals, and conducted the sales and marketing activities associated with intermodal transportation service now provided by CSXT. The Company no longer reflects the intermodal business as a separate segment. CSX’s president views intermodal similarly to merchandise and coal. Intermodal revenue will continue to be viewed as a separate revenue group; however, a separate income statement and operating ratio are no longer prepared and business segment disclosures are no longer required. All prior period disclosures have been revised to reflect this change. 

This change was a result of certain management realignments, a strategic business review and a change in the Company’s intermodal service associated with the start of the UMAX program. The UMAX program, which began during 2010, is a domestic interline container program jointly marketed by CSX and Union Pacific Corporation. Through the UMAX program, the Company provides 53 foot containers to customers for local domestic shipments or transcontinental service provided jointly by CSX and Union Pacific Corporation. 

4 

Table of Contents 

CSX CORPORATION 

PART I  

Financial Information 

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for operating revenue, operating income and total assets for each of the last three fiscal years. 

Company History 

  A leader in freight rail transportation for more than 180 years, the Company’s heritage dates back to the early nineteenth century when The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company (“B&O”) – the nation’s first common carrier – was chartered in 1827. Since that time, the Company has built on this foundation to create a railroad that could safely and reliably service the ever-increasing demands of a growing nation. 

  Since its founding, numerous railroads have combined with the former B&O through merger and consolidation to create what has become CSX. Each of the railroads that combined into the CSX family brought unique and valuable geographical reach to new markets, gateways, cities, ports and transportation corridors. 

  CSX was incorporated in 1978 under Virginia law. In 1980, the Company completed the merger of the Chessie System (“Chessie”) and Seaboard Coast Line Industries (“Seaboard”) into CSX. The merger allowed the Company to connect northern population centers and Appalachian coal fields to growing southeastern markets. Later, the Company’s acquisition of key portions of Conrail, Inc. allowed CSXT to link the northeast, including New England and the New York metropolitan area, with Chicago and midwestern markets as well as the growing areas in the southeast already served by CSXT. This current rail network allows the Company to directly serve every major market in the eastern United States with safe, dependable, environmentally responsible and fuel efficient freight transportation and intermodal service. 

Competition 

  The business environment in which the Company operates is highly competitive. Shippers typically select transportation providers that offer the most compelling combination of service and price. Service requirements, both in terms of transit time and reliability, vary by shipper and commodity. As a result, the Company’s primary competition varies by commodity, geographic location and mode of available transportation. 

  CSXT’s primary rail competitor is Norfolk Southern Railway, which operates throughout much of the Company’s territory. Other railroads also operate in parts of the Company’s territory. Depending on the specific market, competing railroads and deregulated motor carriers may exert pressure on price and service levels. For further discussion on the risk of competition to the Company, see Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

5 

Table of Contents 

CSX CORPORATION 

PART I  

Regulatory Environment 

  The Company's operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, generally applicable to many businesses in the United States. The railroad operations conducted by the Company's subsidiaries, including CSXT, are subject in many respects to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”), the Federal Railroad Administration (“FRA”), and its sister agency within the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (“PHMSA”). Together, FRA and PHMSA have broad jurisdiction over railroad operating standards and practices, including track, freight cars and locomotives, and hazardous materials requirements. Additionally, the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”), a component of the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), has broad authority over railroad operating practices that may have homeland security implications. 

  Although the Staggers Act of 1980 significantly deregulated rail rates and much of the rail traffic of the Company's subsidiaries is currently exempt from rate regulation by agency decision, the STB has broad jurisdiction over railroad commercial practices, including some railroad rates, routes, fuel surcharges, conditions of service and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. This includes jurisdiction over freight car charges, the transfer, extension or abandonment of rail lines, rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic and any acquisition of control over rail common carriers. 

  In 2008, Congress enacted the Rail Safety Improvement Act (the “RSIA”). The legislation includes a mandate that all Class I freight railroads implement a positive train control system (“PTC”) by December 31, 2015. PTC must be installed on all main lines with passenger and commuter operations as well as those over which toxic-by-inhalation hazardous materials (“TIH”) are transported. Implementation of a PTC system is designed to prevent train-to-train collisions, over-speed derailments, incursions into established work-zone limits, and a train from diverting off-course onto another set of tracks through a switch left in a wrong position. Significant capital costs are anticipated with the implementation of PTC as well as ongoing operating expenses. Currently, CSX estimates that the total multi-year cost of PTC implementation will be at least $1.2 billion for the Company. 

  In December 2009, a proposed bill called the “Surface Transportation Board Reauthorization Act of 2009” was introduced in the Senate but not advanced. In January 2011, the bill now referred to as the Surface Transportation Board Reauthorization Act of 2011 (“STB Reauthorization Bill”) was reintroduced. The STB Reauthorization Bill, if adopted, could increase government involvement in railroad pricing, service and operations. The proposed legislation also includes provisions that would reduce the ability to price at market levels, and open a carrier’s privately-owned and maintained rail network to competitors where certain conditions are met. 

  If adopted as proposed, this bill could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenue and operations, as well as the ability to invest in enhancing and maintaining vital infrastructure. Prior to the reintroduction of the STB Reauthorization Bill, the STB had already announced two new hearings; one on February 24, 2011 to review the utility of boxcar, intermodal, automotive and other exemptions, and the other on June 22, 2011 to explore the current state of competition in the railroad industry.  

  For further discussion on regulatory risks to the Company, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.

6 

Table of Contents 

CSX CORPORATION 

PART I   

Other Information 

  CSX makes available on its website www.csx.com, free of charge, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The information on the CSX website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Additionally, the Company has posted its code of ethics on its website, which is also available to any shareholder who requests it. This Form 10-K and other SEC filings made by CSX are also accessible through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. 

  CSX has included the certifications of its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“the Act”) as Exhibit 31, as well as Section 906 of the Act as Exhibit 32 to this Form 10-K report. Additionally, on June 2, 2010, CSX filed its annual CEO certification with the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) confirming CSX’s compliance with the NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards. The CEO was not aware of any violations of these standards by CSX as of February 14, 2011 (the latest practicable date that is closest to the filing of this Form 10-K). This certification is also included as Exhibit 99 to this Form 10-K. 

  The Company’s annual average number of employees was approximately 30,000 in 2010, which includes approximately 26,000 union employees. Most of the Company’s employees provide or support transportation services. The information set forth in Item 6. Selected Financial Data is incorporated herein by reference. 

  For additional information concerning business conducted by the Company during 2010, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors