Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. The risks below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price.

Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively.

We are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and we rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. Any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. Our success depends on: our ability to anticipate and respond to shifts in consumer trends, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are concerned with health and wellness; our product quality; our ability to extend our portfolio of convenient foods and beverages in growing markets; our ability to develop or acquire new products that are responsive to certain consumer preferences, including reducing sodium, added sugars and saturated fat; developing a broader portfolio of product choices and increasing non-carbonated beverage offerings; our ability to develop sweetener innovation; our ability to improve the production and packaging of our products; and our ability to respond to competitive product and pricing pressures. For example, our growth rate may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or grow our current share of the liquid refreshment beverage market in North America, or our current share of the snacks market globally, or if demand for our products does not grow in emerging and developing markets.

In general, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population; consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients, such as 4-MeI, acrylamide, artificial sweeteners, caffeine, high-fructose corn syrup, saturated fat, trans fats, sodium, sugar, or other product ingredients or attributes, including genetically modified ingredients; changes in product packaging, including convenience packaging; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action, litigation against us or other companies in our industry or 

10
negative or inaccurate posts or comments in the media, including social media, about us, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs; consumer perception of social media posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties; a downturn in economic conditions; taxes imposed on our products; or consumer perception of our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, joint venture partners or other third parties or the business practices of such parties. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase our products. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance.”, “Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.”, “Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.” and “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” 

Our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products and improving the quality of existing products, and the effectiveness of our product packaging, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, such as through use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. Although we devote significant resources to the actions mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns and marketing programs are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. Our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs. See also “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.

The conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, display, advertising, marketing, labeling, health and safety practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold, including in emerging and developing markets where legal and regulatory systems may be less developed, and in some cases, less certain. These laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. Such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws regarding the import or export of our products or ingredients used in our products; laws and programs restricting the sale and advertising of certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at reducing, restricting or eliminating ingredients present in certain of our products; laws and programs aimed at discouraging the consumption or altering the package or portion size of certain of our products, including laws imposing restrictions on the use of government programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, to purchase certain of our products; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the effects on health of ingredients in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; taxation requirements, including the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products; competition laws; anti-corruption laws; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating 

11
the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating access to and use of water or utilities; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment and wastewater discharge. New laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, including taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products, ingredients contained in our products or commodities used in the production of our products, may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities.

Governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where our products are made, manufactured or sold may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. If one jurisdiction imposes or proposes to impose new requirements or restrictions, other jurisdictions may follow and the requirements or restrictions, or proposed requirements or restrictions, may result in adverse publicity (whether or not valid). For example, if the State of California requires a specific warning on any product that contains certain ingredients or substances, other jurisdictions may react and impose restrictions on products containing the same ingredients or substances which may result in adverse publicity or increased concerns about the health implications of consumption of such products (whether or not valid). In addition, studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients or substances present in certain of our products, including 4-MeI, acrylamide and sugar. If consumer concerns, whether or not valid, about the health implications of consumption of ingredients or substances present in certain of our products increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, new labeling, product or production requirements or other restrictions, or for any other reason, including adverse publicity as a result of any such new requirements, or if we are required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold, demand for our products could decline, and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See also “Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance.”, “Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.” and “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions as is compliance with anti-corruption laws. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees or suppliers could take actions that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions or financial penalties which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

See also “Item 1. Business - Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.”, “Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance.”  and “Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our 

12
business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.”

Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our products are sold in more than 200 countries and territories. As such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of various federal, state and local governments in the United States, as well as to tax laws and regulations outside the United States. The imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale of our products, ingredients contained in our products or commodities used in the production of our products, could increase the cost of our products, reduce overall consumption of our products, lead to negative publicity (whether or not valid) or leave consumers with the perception that our products do not meet their health and wellness needs, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial performance. For example, Mexico recently imposed a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages and a tax on certain foods that exceed specified caloric contents, and other jurisdictions have imposed or are considering the imposition of taxes and other limitations on the sale of certain of our products. If one jurisdiction imposes new or increased taxes, or withdraws tax benefits, other jurisdictions may follow. 

In addition, we are subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities with respect to income and non-income based taxes both within and outside the United States. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in jurisdictions in which we operate may make resolving tax disputes more difficult and the final resolution of tax audits and any related litigation could differ from our historical provisions and accruals resulting in an adverse impact on our financial performance. 

Our operations outside the United States generate a significant portion of our net revenue and repatriation of foreign earnings to the United States, or changes in how United States multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings, could adversely affect our financial performance. See also “Item 1. Business - Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.” and “Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively.”, “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.” and “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.

The food, snack and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. We compete with other large companies in each of the food, snack and beverage categories, including The Coca-Cola Company, ConAgra Foods, Inc., DPSG, Kellogg Company, Kraft Foods Group, Inc., Mondelēz International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, Nestlé S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Snyder’s-Lance, Inc. In many countries where we do business, including the United States, our primary beverage competitor is The Coca-Cola Company. We compete on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, packaging, convenience, service and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. This may have a material adverse impact on our 

13
revenues and profit margins. See also “Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.”

Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.

Our operations outside of the United States, particularly in Russia, Mexico, Canada, the United Kingdom and Brazil, contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability, and we believe that these countries and emerging and developing markets, particularly China and India, and the Latin America, Africa and Middle East regions, present important future growth opportunities for us. However, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, market or sell will be accepted or successful in any particular emerging or developing market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences or otherwise. If we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging and developing markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect as a result of our investments as a result of economic and political conditions, increased competition, reduced demand for our products, a slow down in growth in these markets and the related impact on other countries who export to these markets, imposition of new or increased sanctions against, or other regulations restricting contact with, countries in these markets, an inability to acquire or form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments or for any other reason, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Unstable economic or political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold, including in Mexico, Venezuela, the Middle East, including Egypt, could also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. Factors that could adversely affect our business results in these markets include: foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; restrictions on the import of ingredients used in our products; restrictions on the import or export of our products; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, which, from time to time, result in significant cash balances in foreign countries such as Venezuela, and on the repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the United States; highly inflationary currency, devaluation or fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar, Argentine peso or Turkish lira; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; imposition of new or increased labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions; and increased costs of business due to compliance with complex foreign and United States laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act, and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for failing to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, disruption in these markets due to political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. See also “Item 1. Business - Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.”, “Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively.”, “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.”, “Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” and “Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

14
Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

Many of the countries in which we operate, including the United States and several of the members of the European Union, have experienced and continue to experience unfavorable economic conditions. Our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets and inflation; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or other economic conditions such as the European sovereign debt crisis, which may potentially impair our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions, including changes to or cessation of any such initiatives; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other economy products, or to less profitable channels; impairment of assets; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. In addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties and any negative impact on any of the foregoing may also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. In addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including U.S. and non-U.S. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. A ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution may limit the availability of credit or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all or, with respect to financial institutions who are parties to our financing arrangements, leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials which could have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. See also “Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance.”

Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.

We and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business. The principal ingredients we use include apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including PET and polypropylene resin used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. Some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced internationally and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or are in short supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. We are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy, including fuel. The raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental incentives and controls. We purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. If commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating results. In addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of certain raw materials and energy, including fuel. Certain of these derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment 

15
can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.”, “Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.” and “Market Risks” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.

Failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity initiatives or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our productivity initiatives help fund our growth initiatives and contribute to our results of operations. We are implementing strategic plans that we believe will position our business for future success and growth by allowing us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate more efficiently in the highly competitive food, snack and beverage industries. In order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. In addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plans. Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. If we are unable to successfully implement our productivity initiatives, fail to implement these initiatives as timely as we anticipate or fail to identify and implement additional productivity opportunities in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, we continue to implement our global operating model to improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand management across the global PepsiCo organization. If we are unable to implement this model effectively, it may have a negative impact on our ability to deliver sustained or breakthrough innovation or to otherwise compete effectively. 

Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our ability, and that of our suppliers, third parties, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners, independent distributors and retailers, to make, manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or transportation and distribution capabilities due to any of the following could impair the ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell our products: adverse weather conditions or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding; government action; fire; terrorism; outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; pandemic; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.

Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. Product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling, misbranding, spoilage, allergens or contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. If any of our products are mislabeled or become unfit for consumption, causes injury, illness or death, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject 

16
to liability or government action, which could result in payment of damages or fines. A product recall or a product liability issue could cause certain of our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could reduce consumer demand and brand equity. We could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in product quality, safety and integrity generally. In addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws, competition laws and the tax laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our products are sold. In the event that our employees engage in improper activities abroad, we may be subject to enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the United States and abroad. Our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental practices for all of our operations and activities; the failure to achieve our goal of continuing to refine our food and beverage choices to meet changing consumer demands by reducing sodium, added sugars and saturated fat and developing a broader portfolio of product choices; health concerns (whether or not valid) about our products or particular ingredients in our products, including whether certain of our products contribute to obesity; the imposition or proposed imposition of new or increased taxes or other limitations on the sale or advertising of our products; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water, energy use and waste management; the practices of our employees, agents, customers, distributors, suppliers, bottlers, joint venture partners or other third parties with respect to any of the foregoing; any failure to comply, or perception of a failure to comply, with our policies and statements, including those regarding advertising to children; consumer perception of our advertising campaigns or marketing programs; consumer perception of our use of social media; or our responses to any of the foregoing or negative publicity as a result of any of the foregoing. The rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination, and, as a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us, our products or advertising campaigns and marketing programs, and consumer perception of posts or other information disseminated by us or our employees, agents, customers, suppliers, bottlers, distributors, joint venture partners or other third parties, may also generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation. In addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to increase. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. See also “Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively.”, “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.” and “Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance.”

Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and refranchisings. Potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things: our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of an acquisition, divestiture or refranchising, or the formation of a joint venture, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with an acquisition, joint venture, divestiture or refranchising; and diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day operations. With respect to 

17
acquisitions, the following also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the manufacturing, distribution, sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems between us and the acquired company and our ability to successfully operate in new categories or territories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting, environmental compliance and health and safety compliance), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between us and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. With respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. In addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the United States increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the United States, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and laws and regulations outside the United States. With respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all. Further, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact sales or business performance. If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed or does not result in the benefits we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 

If we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business. 

Our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including our Chief Executive Officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.

Trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance.

We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, as well as other retailers, to effectively compete. The loss of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, our industry has been affected by increasing concentration of retail ownership, particularly in North America and Europe, which may impact our ability to compete as such retailers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. Failure to appropriately respond to any such actions or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance. 

18
Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.

We expect to maintain Tier 1 commercial paper access which we believe will ensure appropriate financial flexibility and ready access to global credit markets at favorable interest rates. Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. Our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. See also “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 

Our business could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against a cybersecurity incident.

Our information systems could be compromised by unauthorized outside parties intent on extracting sensitive data or confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes or by inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors. A cybersecurity incident resulting in a security breach, or failure to identify a cybersecurity threat, could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of sensitive data, confidential information or other assets as well as litigation, regulatory enforcement, violation of data privacy and security laws and regulations, remediation costs, damage to our reputation and loss of revenue resulting from unauthorized use of confidential information or failure to retain or attract customers and consumers following such an incident. See also “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” and “If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or share services for certain functions effectively, our business could suffer.” 

If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or share services for certain functions effectively, our business could suffer.

We depend on information technology, including cloud-based services, to enable and improve the effectiveness of our operations, to interface with our customers and consumers, to order and manage materials from suppliers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory, financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, to collect and store sensitive data or confidential information and for digital marketing activities and electronic communication among our global operations and between our employees and the employees of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint ventures, suppliers and other third parties. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if our systems are damaged, destroyed or shut down as a result of natural disasters, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, malicious or disruptive software, hackers or otherwise, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, damage to our reputation, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise.

We have embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative to migrate certain of our financial processing systems to enterprise-wide systems solutions. There can be no certainty that this initiative will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver the expected benefits may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could 

19
result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue.

We have entered into agreements to share certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing, benefit plan administration and certain finance and accounting functions, to third-party service providers and may enter into agreements to share services for other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If these service providers do not perform, or do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers and our reputation could be harmed. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation and could have a negative impact on employee morale. See also “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” and “Our business could suffer if we are unable to protect our information systems against a cybersecurity incident.”

Fluctuations in exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the U.S. generate a significant portion of our net revenue. Fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. See also “Market Risks” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1 and 10 to our consolidated financial statements.

Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.

There is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. We may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. In addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. The increasing concern over climate change also may result in new or increased regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. In the event that such regulation is more aggressive than the measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. See also “Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to innovate or market our products effectively.”, “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.” 

20
and “Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” 

A portion of our workforce belongs to unions. Failure to successfully negotiate collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer.

Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collective bargaining agreements. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. The terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. 

Our intellectual property rights could be infringed or challenged and reduce the value of our products and brands and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. These intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets that are important to our business and relate to a variety of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. We protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. If we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”

Potential liabilities and costs from litigation or legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to litigation related to our advertising, marketing or commercial practices, product labels, claims and ingredients and environmental and insurance matters. Since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management’s assessment of the materiality of these matters, including the reserves taken in connection therewith, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. In the event that management’s assessment of materiality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, results of operations or cash flows. See also “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

Many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance.

Many factors may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance. Such factors, some of which are beyond our control, may include, but are not limited to: unfavorable economic conditions; changes in financial or tax reporting and changes in accounting principles or practices that materially affect our reported financial condition and results and investor perceptions of our performance; actions by shareholders or others seeking to influence our business strategies; and the impact of our share repurchase program. In addition, corporate actions, such as those we may or may not take from time to time as part of our continuous review of our corporate structure, including as a result of business, legal and tax 

21
considerations, may not have the impact we intend and may adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance. The above factors, as well as other risks included in this Item 1A. Risk Factors, could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our financial performance.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2013 fiscal year and that remain unresolved.

Item 2. Properties.