PART I

Item 1. Business.

PepsiCo, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1919 and was reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986. When used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “PepsiCo” and the “Company” mean PepsiCo, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

We are a leading global food and beverage company with brands that are respected household names throughout the world. Through our operations, authorized bottlers, contract manufacturers and other third parties, we make, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of convenient and enjoyable foods and beverages, serving customers and consumers in more than 200 countries and territories. 

Our management monitors a variety of key indicators to evaluate our business results and financial condition. These indicators include growth in volume, revenue and organic revenue, growth in operating profit and EPS (as reported and excluding certain items and the impact of foreign exchange translation), market share, safety, product and service quality, organizational health, brand equity, employee diversity, net commodity inflation, productivity savings, net capital spending, free cash flow and free cash flow excluding certain items, cash returned to shareholders in the forms of share repurchases and dividends, advertising and marketing expenses, return on invested capital (ROIC), and gross and operating margin change. 

Performance with Purpose is our goal to deliver sustained value by providing a wide range of foods and beverages, from treats to healthy eats; finding innovative ways to minimize our impact on the environment and lower our costs through energy and water conservation as well as reduce use of packaging material; providing a safe and inclusive workplace for our employees globally; and respecting, supporting and investing in the local communities in which we operate. PepsiCo was again recognized for its leadership in this area in 2013 by earning a place on the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the seventh consecutive year and on the North America Index for the eighth consecutive year. 

2
Our Operations

We are organized into four business units, as follows:

1)PepsiCo Americas Foods, which includes Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) and all of our Latin American food and snack businesses (LAF);

2)PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB), which includes all of our North American and Latin American beverage businesses;

3)PepsiCo Europe (Europe), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in Europe and South Africa; and

4)PepsiCo Asia, Middle East and Africa (AMEA), which includes all beverage, food and snack businesses in AMEA, excluding South Africa.

Our four business units are comprised of six reportable segments (also referred to as divisions), as follows:

•FLNA,

•QFNA,

•LAF,

•PAB,

•Europe, and

•AMEA.

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas. 

Frito-Lay North America

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, FLNA makes, markets, sells and distributes branded snack foods. These foods include Lay’s potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, Tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, Ruffles potato chips, Fritos corn chips and Santitas tortilla chips. FLNA’s branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. In addition, FLNA’s joint venture with Strauss Group makes, markets, sells and distributes Sabra refrigerated dips and spreads. FLNA’s net revenue was $14.1 billion, $13.6 billion and $13.3 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximated 21% of our total net revenue in both 2013 and 2012 and 20% of our total net revenue in 2011.

Quaker Foods North America

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, QFNA makes, markets, sells and distributes cereals, rice, pasta, dairy and other branded products. QFNA’s products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Quaker Chewy granola bars, Cap’n Crunch cereal, Quaker grits, Life cereal, Rice-A-Roni side dishes, Quaker rice cakes, Quaker Oat Squares and Quaker Natural Granola. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. QFNA’s net revenue was $2.6 billion in both 2013 and 2012 and $2.7 billion in 2011, and approximated 4% of our total net revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011. 

Latin America Foods

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, LAF makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of snack food brands including Doritos, Marias Gamesa, Cheetos, Ruffles, Emperador, Saladitas, Sabritas, Elma Chips, Tostitos and Rosquinhas Mabel, as well as many Quaker-branded cereals and snacks. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. LAF’s net revenue was $8.3 billion, $7.8 

3
billion and $7.2 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximated 12% of our total net revenue in both 2013 and 2012 and 11% of our total net revenue 2011. 

PepsiCo Americas Beverages

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, PAB makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Gatorade, Mountain Dew, Diet Pepsi, Aquafina, 7UP (outside the U.S.), Diet Mountain Dew, Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist and Mirinda. PAB also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea and coffee products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks. Further, PAB manufactures and distributes certain brands licensed from Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (DPSG), including Dr Pepper, Crush and Schweppes, and certain juice brands licensed from Dole Food Company, Inc. (Dole) and Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc. (Ocean Spray). PAB operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities and sells branded finished goods directly to independent distributors and retailers. PAB also sells concentrate and finished goods for our brands to authorized and independent bottlers, who in turn also sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers in certain markets. PAB’s net revenue was $21.1 billion, $21.4 billion and $22.4 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximated 32%, 33% and 34% of our total net revenue in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 

Europe

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, Europe makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack food brands including Lay’s, Walkers, Doritos, Cheetos and Ruffles, as well as many Quaker-branded cereals and snacks, through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Pepsi Max, 7UP, Diet Pepsi and Tropicana. These branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. In certain markets, however, Europe operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. Europe also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). In addition, Europe makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading dairy products including Domik v Derevne, Chudo and Agusha. Europe’s net revenue was $13.8 billion, $13.4 billion and $13.6 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximated 21% of our total net revenue in 2013 and 20% of our total net revenue in both 2012 and 2011.

See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our acquisition of Wimm-Bill-Dann Foods OJSC (WBD) in 2011.

Asia, Middle East and Africa

Either independently or in conjunction with third parties, AMEA makes, markets, sells and distributes a number of leading snack food brands including Lay’s, Kurkure, Chipsy, Doritos, Cheetos and Smith’s through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates. Further, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, AMEA makes, markets and sells many Quaker-branded cereals and snacks. AMEA also makes, markets, sells and distributes beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mirinda, 7UP, Mountain Dew, Aquafina and Tropicana. These branded products are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, AMEA operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. AMEA also, either independently or in conjunction with third parties, makes, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). Further, we license the Tropicana brand for use in China on co-branded juice products to a strategic alliance with Tingyi (Cayman Islands) 

4
Holding Corp. (Tingyi). AMEA’s net revenue was $6.5 billion, $6.7 billion and $7.4 billion in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and approximated 10% of our total net revenue in 2013 and 2012 and 11% of our total net revenue in 2011. 

See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information about our transaction with Tingyi in 2012.

Our Distribution Network

Our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (DSD), customer warehouse and distributor networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. These distribution systems are described under the heading “Our Distribution Network” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Ingredients and Other Supplies

The principal ingredients we use in our food and beverage businesses are apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene resins used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. We employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages. Many of these ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased in the open market. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation, and we manage this risk through the use of fixed-price contracts and purchase orders, pricing agreements and derivatives. In addition, risk to our supply of certain raw materials is mitigated through purchases from multiple geographies and suppliers. When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our exposure to commodity costs. See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.”

Our Brands

We own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including Agusha, Amp Energy, Aquafina, Aquafina Flavorsplash, Aunt Jemima, Cap’n Crunch, Cheetos, Chester’s, Chipsy, Chudo, Cracker Jack, Diet Mountain Dew, Diet Mug, Diet Pepsi, Diet Sierra Mist, Domik v Derevne, Doritos, Duyvis, Elma Chips, Emperador, Frito-Lay, Fritos, Fruktovy Sad, Frustyle, Gatorade, G2, G Series, Grandma’s, Imunele, Izze, Kurkure, Lay’s, Life, Lubimy Sad, Manzanita Sol, Marias Gamesa, Matutano, Mirinda, Miss Vickie’s, Mother’s, Mountain Dew, Mountain Dew Code Red, Mountain Dew Kickstart, Mug, Munchies, Naked, Near East, O.N.E., Paso de los Toros, Pasta Roni, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi Next, Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Rice-A-Roni, Rold Gold, Rosquinhas Mabel, Ruffles, Sabritas, Sakata, Saladitas, Sandora, Santitas, 7UP (outside the United States) and 7UP Free (outside the United States), Sierra Mist, Simba, Smartfood, Smith’s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SoBe Lifewater, SoBe V Water, Sonric’s, Stacy’s, Sting, SunChips, Tonus, Tostitos, Trop 50, Tropicana, Tropicana Farmstand, Tropicana Pure Premium, Tropicana Twister, Vesely Molochnik, Walkers and Ya. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products in certain markets, including Dole and Ocean Spray. We also distribute Rockstar Energy drinks, Muscle Milk protein shakes and certain DPSG brands, including Dr Pepper, Crush and Schweppes, in certain markets. Joint ventures in which we have an ownership interest either own or have the right to use certain trademarks, such as Lipton, Müller, Sabra and Starbucks. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as 

5
snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. In addition, we license the use of our trademarks on merchandise that is sold at retail for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness. 

We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others.

Seasonality

Our businesses are affected by seasonal variations. For instance, our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food and dairy sales are higher in the cooler months. Weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our consolidated financial results.

Our Customers

Our primary customers include wholesale and other distributors, foodservice customers, grocery stores, drug stores, convenience stores, discount/dollar stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores and authorized independent bottlers. We normally grant our independent bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our independent bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality. We also grant distribution rights to our independent bottlers for certain beverage products bearing our trademarks for specified geographic areas.

In 2013, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart), including Sam’s Club (Sam’s), represented approximately 11% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 30% of our 2013 North American (United States and Canada) net revenue, with Wal-Mart (including Sam’s) representing approximately 17%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our independent bottlers which were used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers.

See “Our Customers” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our independent bottlers.

Our Competition

Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our beverage, snack and food brands compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. In many countries in which we do business, The Coca-Cola Company is our primary beverage competitor. Other food and beverage competitors include, but are not limited to, ConAgra Foods, Inc., DPSG, Kellogg Company, Kraft Foods Group, Inc., Mondelēz International, Inc., Monster Beverage Corporation, Nestlé S.A., Red Bull GmbH and Snyder’s-Lance, Inc. In many markets, we also compete against numerous regional and local companies.

Many of our snack and food brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack and food industry worldwide. However, The Coca-Cola Company has significant carbonated soft drink (CSD) share advantage in many markets outside the United States.

Our beverage, snack and food brands compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products, introduction of new products and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, product packaging, pricing, increased efficiency in production techniques, new vending and dispensing equipment 

6
and brand and trademark development and protection. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allows us to compete effectively.

(1)The categories and category share information in the charts above are through December 2013 based on data provided and verified by Information Resources, Inc. (IRI). The above charts include data from most major retail chains (including Wal-Mart) but exclude data from certain retailers that do not report to this service. 

(2)Does not sum due to rounding.

Research and Development

We engage in a variety of research and development activities and continue to invest to accelerate growth in these activities and to drive innovation globally. These activities principally involve production, processing and packaging and include: development of new ingredients and products; reformulation of existing products; improvement in the quality of existing products; improvement and modernization of manufacturing processes; improvements in product quality, safety and integrity; improvements in packaging technology; improvements in dispensing equipment; development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of current and proposed product lines; efforts focused on identifying opportunities to transform and grow our product portfolio, including the development of sweetener and flavor innovation and recipes that reduce sodium levels in certain of our products. Our research centers are located around the world, including in China, Germany, India, Mexico, Russia, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States, and leverage nutrition science, food science and consumer insights to meet our strategy to develop healthful, convenient foods and beverages. In 2013, we continued to expand our portfolio of nutritious foods and beverages that include fruits, vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy, nuts, seeds and key nutrients, as well as offerings that provide a functional benefit, such as addressing the performance needs of athletes. We continue to refine our food and beverage portfolio to meet changing consumer needs by developing a broader portfolio of product choices. We also made investments to minimize our impact on the environment, including innovation in our packaging to make it increasingly sustainable, and developed and implemented new technologies to enhance the quality and value of our current and future products, as well as made investments to incorporate into our operations best practices and technology to support sustainable agriculture and to reduce our impact on the environment. We continue to make investments to conserve energy and raw materials, reduce waste in our facilities, recycle containers, use renewable resources and optimize package design to use less materials. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $665 million in 2013, $552 million in 2012 and $525 million in 2011 and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses. 

7
Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance

The conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, advertising, marketing, labeling, safety and health practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold. It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses.

We are required to comply with a variety of U.S. laws and regulations, including but not limited to: the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and various state laws governing food safety; the Food Safety Modernization Act; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act; the Lanham Act; various federal and state laws and regulations governing competition and trade practices; various federal and state laws and regulations governing our employment practices, including those related to equal employment opportunity, such as the Equal Employment Opportunity Act and the National Labor Relations Act; customs and foreign trade laws and regulations; and laws regulating sale of certain of our products in schools. In our business dealings, we are also required to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including state consumer protection laws such as Proposition 65 in California which requires that, unless a safe harbor level exists and has been met, a specific warning appear on any product that contains a substance listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.” 

We are also subject to numerous similar and other laws and regulations outside the U.S., including but not limited to laws and regulations governing food safety, health and safety, anti-corruption and data privacy. In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions as is compliance with the anti-corruption laws. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business. See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.”

Certain jurisdictions in which our products are sold have either imposed, or are considering imposing, taxes or other limitations on certain ingredients we use or products we sell. For example, certain federal, state and local governments in the United States, and in certain other countries in which our products are sold, including Mexico, have either imposed or are considering the imposition of taxes and other limitations on the sale of certain of our products, including certain of our products that exceed specified caloric contents or include specified ingredients such as caffeine. Certain of these governments are also considering proposals to require labeling of foods that are, or contain ingredients that are, genetically modified and to restrict the use of benefit programs, such as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, to purchase certain beverages and foods. In addition, legislation has been enacted in certain U.S. states and in certain other countries in which our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers, unless a deposit or other fee is charged. It is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future. See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors – 

8
Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Imposition of new taxes, disagreements with tax authorities or additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial performance.”

The cost of compliance with U.S. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our results of operations. 

We are also subject to national and local environmental laws in the United States and in foreign countries in which we do business, including laws related to water consumption and treatment, wastewater discharge and air emissions. In the United States, our facilities must comply with the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and other federal and state laws regarding handling, storage, release and disposal of wastes generated on-site and sent to third-party owned and operated off-site licensed facilities. Our policy is to meet all applicable environmental compliance requirements, and we have internal programs in place to enhance our global environmental compliance. We and our subsidiaries are subject to environmental remediation obligations in the normal course of business, as well as remediation and related indemnification obligations in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations, including those of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. While these environmental and indemnification obligations cannot be predicted with certainty, environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”

The Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (ITRA) requires disclosure of certain activities relating to Iran by PepsiCo or its affiliates that occurred during our 2013 fiscal year. As previously disclosed, one of our foreign subsidiaries historically maintained a small office in Iran, which provided sales support to independent bottlers in Iran in connection with in-country sales of foreign-owned beverage brands, and which was not in contravention of any applicable U.S. sanctions laws. In 2012, our foreign subsidiary took steps to close its office in Iran, including terminating all three of its employees, and the office has ceased all commercial activity since the enactment of ITRA. During 2013, our foreign subsidiary continued the process of winding down its office in Iran pursuant to a general license from the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) until the expiration of such license in March 2013. The subsidiary did not engage in any activities in Iran other than wind-down activities in 2013, or have any revenues or profits attributable to activities in Iran during 2013. The office of the subsidiary continues to have one local bank account, containing aggregate deposits of approximately $180, with a bank identified on the list of “Specially Designated Nationals” maintained by OFAC. The subsidiary has applied for a license from OFAC to authorize continuation and completion of wind-down, including closing the bank account, and plans to resume and complete such wind-down activities upon receipt thereof. 

Employees

As of December 28, 2013, we employed approximately 274,000 people worldwide, including approximately 106,000 people within the United States. Our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. We or our subsidiaries are a party to numerous collective bargaining agreements. We expect that we will be able to renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms when they expire. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good. 

9
Available Information

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are also available free of charge on our Internet site at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part hereof or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.