Item 1. Business  

McCormick is a global leader in the manufacture, marketing and distribution of spices, herbs, seasonings, specialty foods and flavors to the entire food industry. Our major sales, distribution and production facilities are located in North America and Europe. Additional facilities are based in Mexico, Central America, Australia, China, Singapore, Thailand and South Africa. McCormick & Company, Incorporated was formed in 1915 under Maryland law as the successor to a business established in 1889.  

We operate in two business segments, consumer and industrial. The consumer segment sells spices, herbs, extracts, seasoning blends, sauces, marinades, and specialty foods to the consumer food market under a variety of brands worldwide, including “McCormick®,” “Lawry’s®,” “Zatarain’s®,” “Old Bay®,” “Thai Kitchen®,” “Simply Asia®,” “Ducros®,” “Schwartz®,” “Vahine®,” “Silvo®,” “Club House®,” and “Billy Bee®.” The industrial segment sells seasoning blends, natural spices and herbs, wet flavors, coating systems, and compound flavors to multinational food manufacturers and foodservice customers both directly and indirectly through distributors.  

Please refer to pages 19 through 21, of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009 for descriptions of our consumer and industrial businesses, and pages 6 through 13 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009 for a discussion of growth initiatives for the business. These pages of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009, as well as all other page references to our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009 contained in this Form 10-K, are incorporated herein by reference.  

For financial information about our business segments, please refer to pages 22 through 27, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Results of Operations” of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009, and Note 16, “Business Segments and Geographic Areas” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 61 and 62 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.  

For a discussion of our recent acquisition activity, please refer to page 30 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Acquisitions” of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009, and Note 2, “Acquisitions” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 47 of the Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.  

Raw Materials  

The most significant raw materials used by us in our business are dairy products, pepper, wheat, onion, capsicums, soybean oil, and garlic. Pepper and other spices and herbs are  

1  

 generally sourced from countries other than the United States. Other raw materials, like cheese and onion, are primarily sourced from within the United States. We are not aware of any government restrictions or other factors that would have a material adverse effect on the availability of these raw materials. Because the raw materials are agricultural products, they are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, and other factors beyond our control. We respond to this volatility in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, and customer price adjustments.  

Customers  

McCormick’s products are sold directly to customers and also through brokers, wholesalers, and distributors. In the consumer segment, products are resold to consumers through a variety of retail outlets, including grocery, mass merchandise, warehouse clubs, discount, and drug stores under a variety of brands. In the industrial segment, products are used by food and beverage manufacturers as ingredients for their finished goods and by food service customers as ingredients for menu items to enhance the flavor of their foods. Customers for the industrial segment include food manufacturers and the food service industry supplied both directly and indirectly through distributors.  

We have a large number of customers for our products. In fiscal years 2007 and 2008, sales to one of our customers, PepsiCo, Inc., accounted for approximately 10% of consolidated net sales. In fiscal year 2009, sales to two of our customers, PepsiCo, Inc. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., each accounted for approximately 11% of consolidated net sales. Sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 30% of consolidated net sales for the 2009 fiscal year.  

The dollar amount of backlog orders for our business is not material to an understanding of our business, taken as a whole. No material portion of our business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government.  

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents  

McCormick owns a number of trademark registrations. Although in the aggregate these trademarks may be material to our business, the loss of any one of those trademarks, with the exception of our “McCormick,” “Lawry’s,” “Zatarain’s,” “Club House,” “Ducros,” “Schwartz,” and “Vahine,” trademarks, would not have a material adverse effect on our business. The “McCormick” trademark is extensively used by us in connection with the sale of our food products in the U.S. and certain non-U.S. markets. The terms of the trademark registrations are as prescribed by law and the registrations will be renewed for as long as we deem them to be useful.  

We have entered into a number of license agreements authorizing the use of our trademarks by affiliated and non-affiliated entities. The loss of these license agreements would not have a material adverse effect on our business. The term of the license agreements is generally three to five years or until such time as either party terminates the agreement. Those agreements with specific terms are renewable upon agreement of the parties.  

2  

We also own various patents, none of which individually are viewed as material to our business.  

Seasonality  

Due to seasonal factors inherent in McCormick’s business, our sales, income, and cash from operations generally are lower in the first two quarters of the fiscal year, increase in the third quarter and are significantly higher in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season. This seasonality reflects customer and consumer buying patterns, primarily in the consumer segment.  

Working Capital  

In order to meet increased demand for our consumer products during our fourth quarter, McCormick usually builds its inventories during the third quarter of the fiscal year. We generally finance working capital items (inventory and receivables) through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of our liquidity and capital resources, see Note 6 “Financing Arrangements” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 48 and 49 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009, and the “Liquidity and Financial Condition” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 27 through 30 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.  

Competition  

McCormick competes in a geographic market that is international and highly competitive. Our strategies for competing in each of our segments include a focus on price and value, product quality and innovation, and superior service. Additionally, in the consumer segment, we focus on brand recognition and loyalty, effective advertising, promotional programs, and the identification and satisfaction of consumer preferences. For further discussion, see pages 19 through 21 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.  

Research and Development  

Many of McCormick’s products are prepared from confidential formulas developed by our research laboratories and product development teams, as well as from, in some cases, customer proprietary formulas. Expenditures for research and development were $48.9 million in 2009, $51.0 million in 2008, and $49.3 million in 2007. The amount spent on customer-sponsored research activities is not material to us.  

Environmental Regulations  

The cost of compliance with federal, state, and local provisions related to protection of the environment has had no material effect on McCormick’s business. There were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in fiscal year 2009 and there are no material expenditures planned for such purposes in fiscal year 2010.  

3  

Employees  

McCormick had approximately 7,500 full time employees worldwide as of December 31, 2009. We believe our relationship with employees to be good. We have no collective bargaining contracts in the United States. At our foreign subsidiaries, approximately 1,300 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or similar arrangements.  

Financial Information about Geographic Locations  

For information on the net sales and long-lived assets of McCormick by geographic area, see Note 16, “Business Segments and Geographic Areas” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 61 and 62 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.  

Foreign Operations  

McCormick is subject in varying degrees to certain risks typically associated with a global business, such as local economic and market conditions, restrictions on investments, royalties and dividends, and exchange rate fluctuations. Approximately 38% of sales in fiscal year 2009 were from non-U.S. operations. For information on how McCormick manages these risks, see the “Market Risk Sensitivity” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on pages 31 through 33 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.  

Forward-Looking Information  

For a discussion of forward-looking information, see the “Forward-Looking Information” section of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” on page 36 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for 2009.  

Available Information  

Our principal corporate internet website address is: www.mccormickcorporation.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC maintains an Internet web site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding McCormick. Our website also includes our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Business Ethics Policy and charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors.  

4  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors