Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

Business Overview  

Foot Locker, Inc., through its subsidiaries, operates in two reportable segments — Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers. The Athletic Stores segment is one of the largest athletic footwear and apparel retailers in the world, whose formats include Foot Locker, Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Champs Sports, Footaction, and CCS. The Direct-to-Customers segment reflects CCS and Footlocker.com, Inc., which sells, through its affiliates, including Eastbay, Inc., to customers through catalogs, mobile devices, and Internet websites.  

The Foot Locker brand is one of the most widely recognized names in the market segments in which the Company operates, epitomizing high quality for the active lifestyle customer. This brand equity has aided the Company’s ability to successfully develop and increase its portfolio of complementary retail store formats, specifically Lady Foot Locker and Kids Foot Locker, as well as Footlocker.com, its direct-to-customers business. Through various marketing channels, including broadcast, digital, print, and sponsorships of various sporting events, the Company reinforces its image with a consistent message- namely, that it is the destination for athletically inspired shoes and apparel with a wide selection of merchandise in a full-service environment.  

Store Profile  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Athletic Stores  

The Company operates 3,369 stores in the Athletic Stores segment. The following is a brief description of the Athletic Stores segment’s operating businesses:  

Foot Locker — “Sneaker Central” — Foot Locker is a leading global athletic footwear and apparel retailer. Its stores offer the latest in athletic-inspired performance products, manufactured primarily by the leading athletic brands. Foot Locker offers products for a wide variety of activities including basketball, running, and training. Its 1,901 stores are located in 23 countries including 1,118 in the United States, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam, 129 in Canada, 563 in Europe, and a combined 91 in Australia and New Zealand. The domestic stores have an average of 2,400 selling square feet and the international stores have an average of 1,500 selling square feet.  

Lady Foot Locker — “The Place for Her” — Lady Foot Locker is a leading U.S. retailer of athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for active women. Its stores carry major athletic footwear and apparel brands, as well as casual wear and an assortment of apparel designed for a variety of activities, including running, walking, training, and fitness. Its 331 stores are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and have an average of 1,300 selling square feet.   

14 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Kids Foot Locker — “Where Kids Come First” — Kids Foot Locker is a national children’s athletic retailer that offers the largest selection of brand-name athletic footwear, apparel and accessories for children. Its stores feature an environment geared to appeal to both parents and children. Its 289 stores are located in the United States, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands and have an average of 1,400 selling square feet  

Footaction — “Head-to-Toe Sport Inspired Style” — Footaction is a national athletic footwear and apparel retailer. The primary customers are young males that seek street-inspired athletic styles. Its 292 stores are located throughout the United States and Puerto Rico and focus on marquee footwear and branded apparel. The Footaction stores have an average of 2,900 selling square feet.  

Champs Sports — “We Know Game” — Champs Sports is one of the largest mall-based specialty athletic footwear and apparel retailers in North America. Its product categories include athletic footwear, apparel and accessories, and a focused assortment of equipment. This combination allows Champs Sports to differentiate itself from other mall-based stores by presenting complete product assortments in a select number of sporting activities. Its 534 stores are located throughout the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The Champs Sports stores have an average of 3,500 selling square feet.  

CCS — “We Are Board Culture” — CCS serves the needs of the 12 – 20 year old seeking an authentic board lifestyle shop. CCS is anchored in skate but appealing to the surrounding culture. The CCS format offers board lifestyle merchandise that will fit the needs of the customer all year long and stocks the best selection of both core and lifestyle brands. This format complements the CCS catalog and Internet business, which was acquired in November 2008. This concept was expanded to 22 stores in 2011, all of which are located in the United States and average 1,500 selling square feet.  

Direct-to-Customers  

The Company’s Direct-to-Customers segment is multi-branded and multi-channeled. This segment sells, through its affiliates, directly to customers through catalogs as well as its Internet and mobile websites. Eastbay, one of the affiliates, is among the largest direct marketers in the United States, providing the high school athlete with a complete sports solution including athletic footwear, apparel, equipment, team licensed, and private-label merchandise. In 2008, the Company purchased CCS, an Internet and catalog retailer of skateboard equipment, apparel, footwear, and accessories targeted primarily to teenaged boys. The retail store operations of CCS are included in the Athletic Stores segment. The Direct-to-Customers segment operates the websites for eastbay.com, final-score.com, and teamsales.eastbay.com. Additionally this segment operates websites aligned with the brand names of its store banners (footlocker.com, ladyfootlocker.com, kidsfootlocker.com, footaction.com, champssports.com, and ccs.com).  

Franchise Operations  

In 2006, the Company entered into a ten-year area development agreement with the Alshaya Trading Co. W.L.L., for the operation of Foot Locker stores located within the Middle East, subject to certain restrictions. Additionally, in 2007, the Company entered into a ten-year agreement with another third party for the exclusive right to open and operate Foot Locker stores in the Republic of Korea.  

A total of 34 franchised stores were operating at January 28, 2012. Royalty income from the franchised stores was not significant for any of the periods presented. These stores are not included in the Company’s operating store count above.   

15 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures  

In the following tables, the Company has presented certain financial measures and ratios identified as non-GAAP. The Company believes this non-GAAP information is a useful measure to investors because it allows for a more direct comparison of the Company’s performance for 2011 as compared with 2010 and is useful in assessing the Company’s progress in achieving its long-term financial objectives. The following represents a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed throughout the Overview of Consolidated Results:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

16 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company estimates the tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments by applying its effective tax rate to deductible items. The gain recorded with respect to The Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd. was recorded with no tax expense due to the fact that the entity that held the investment has a zero statutory tax rate. During 2009, the provincial tax rates in Canada were reduced, which resulted in a $4 million reduction in the value of the Company’s net deferred tax assets.  

When assessing Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”), the Company adjusts its results to reflect its operating leases as if they qualified for capital lease treatment. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the presentation of these leases as capital leases is appropriate. Accordingly, the asset base and net income amounts are adjusted to reflect this in the calculation of ROIC. ROIC, subject to certain adjustments, is also used as a measure in executive long-term incentive compensation.  

The closest GAAP measure is Return on Assets (“ROA”) and is also represented below. ROA increased to 9.4 percent as compared with 5.9 percent in the prior year reflecting the Company’s overall performance in 2011.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) Represents income from continuing operations of $278 million, $169 million, and $47 million divided by average total assets of $2,973 million, $2,856 million, and $2,847 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.    

  (2) See below for the calculation of ROIC.    

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (3) The determination of the capitalized operating leases and the adjustments to income have been calculated on a lease-by-lease basis and have been consistently calculated in each of the years presented above. Capitalized operating leases represent the best estimate of the asset base that would be recorded for operating leases as if they had been classified as capital or as if the property were purchased.    

  (4) The adjusted income tax expense represents the marginal tax rate applied to net operating profit for each of the periods presented.     

17 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Overview of Consolidated Results  

In March of 2010, the Company announced a strategic plan, which included a series of operating initiatives and long-term financial objectives to achieve its vision of becoming the leading global retailer of athletically inspired shoes and apparel. Several of those objectives were exceeded during 2011 and progress was made towards attaining many of the metrics. In March 2012, an updated long-range plan and new long-term financial objectives were announced in light of our progress over the first two years of our long-range plan. Our updated objectives and 2011 results are presented below:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company recorded net income from continuing operations of $278 million, or $1.80 per diluted share in 2011; this compares with $169 million, or $1.07 per diluted share, for the prior-year period. Included in the results are impairment charges related to the CCS tradename intangible asset of $5 million and $10 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Excluding these charges in both periods, as well as the money market gain in 2010, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share increased by 65 percent to $1.82 per share in 2011 from $1.10 in 2010. Other highlights of our 2011 financial performance include:  

  • Sales increased by 11.4 percent and comparable-store sales increased by 9.8 percent as compared with the corresponding prior-year period. This increase was in addition to the 2010 comparable-store increase of 5.8 percent, reflecting the success of our strategic plan and the continuing favorable athletic trend.    

  • Gross margin increased 190 basis points in 2011 as compared with 2010. The cost of merchandise rate improved by 70 basis points for the same period, while our buyers and occupancy expenses improved by 120 basis points reflecting improved leverage on higher sales.    

  • Selling, general and administrative expenses were 22.1 percent of sales, an improvement of 40 basis points as compared with the prior year.    

  • Cash and cash equivalents at January 28, 2012 were $851 million, representing an increase of $155 million.    

  • Cash flow provided from operations was $497 million representing an increase of $171 million as compared with the prior year. This increase reflects the strong sales performance coupled with improved merchandise management. Merchandise inventories, excluding foreign currency fluctuations increased by 1.6 percent while sales, excluding foreign currency fluctuations, increased by 9.7 percent.    

  • Capital expenditures during 2011 totaled $152 million and were primarily directed to the remodeling or relocation of 182 stores, the build-out of 70 new stores, and continued improvements to our websites’ features and functionality, furthering the cross channel experience.    

  • Dividends totaling $101 million were declared and paid. Effective with the first quarter 2012 dividend payment, the dividend rate was increased by 9 percent to $0.18 per share.    

  • A total of $104 million, or 4.9 million shares, were repurchased as part of the previously announced share repurchase program. On February 14, 2012, a new 3-year, $400 million share repurchase program extending through January 2015 was approved.    

  • ROIC increased to 11.8 percent as compared with the prior-year result of 8.3 percent, reflecting profitability improvements and a more efficient balance sheet.     

18 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The following table represents a summary of sales and operating results, reconciled to income from continuing operations before income taxes.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) The year ended January 30, 2010 includes non-cash impairment charges totaling $32 million, which were recorded to write-down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements at the Company’s Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Footaction, and Champs Sports divisions.    

  (2) Included in the results for the year ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 are non-cash impairment charges of $5 million and $10 million, respectively, to write down the CCS tradename intangible asset. Included in the results for the year ended January 30, 2010 is a non-cash impairment charge of $4 million to write off software development costs.    

  (3) During the first quarter of 2011, the Company increased its 1993 Repositioning and 1991 Restructuring reserve by $1 million for repairs necessary to one of the locations comprising this reserve. During the year ended January 30, 2010, the Company adjusted its 1999 restructuring reserves to reflect a favorable lease termination. These amounts are included in selling, general, and administrative expenses.    

  (4) During 2009, the Company restructured its organization by consolidating the Lady Foot Locker, Foot Locker U.S., Kids Foot Locker, and Footaction businesses in addition to reducing corporate staff, resulting in a $5 million charge.    

  (5) Included in the year ended January 29, 2011 is a $2 million gain to reflect the Company’s settlement of its investment in the Reserve International Liquidity Fund.    

Sales  

All references to comparable-store sales for a given period relate to sales from stores (including sales from the Direct-to-Customers segment and sales from stores that have been relocated or remodeled during the relevant periods) that are open at the period-end, that have been open for more than one year, and exclude the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. Stores opened and closed during the period are not included. Sales from acquired businesses that include the purchase of inventory are included in the computation of comparable-store sales after 15 months of operations.  

Sales in 2011 increased to $5,623 million, or by 11.4 percent as compared with 2010. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales increased 9.7 percent as compared with 2010. Comparable-store sales increased by 9.8 percent. This increase primarily reflects higher footwear sales. Apparel and accessories sales also increased, which represented approximately 24 percent of sales, reflecting a modest increase over the corresponding prior-year period of 23 percent.  

Sales of $5,049 million in 2010 increased by 4.0 percent from sales of $4,854 million in 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, sales increased 4.6 percent as compared with 2009. Comparable-store sales increased by 5.8 percent.   

19 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Gross Margin  

Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 31.9 percent in 2011, increasing by 190 basis points as compared with 2010. This increase reflected a 70 basis points improvement in the merchandise margin rate, which is attributable to an improved inventory position, better merchandise flow, and lower markdowns as the Company was less promotional during 2011. The effect of vendor allowances, as compared with the prior year, contributed 10 basis points to this improvement. The increase in the gross margin rate also included a decrease of 120 basis points in the occupancy and buyers salary expense rate reflecting improved leverage on largely fixed costs.  

Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 30.0 percent in 2010 increasing 260 basis points as compared with 2009. In 2009, the Company recorded a $14 million inventory reserve on certain aged apparel as part of its new apparel strategy. Excluding this charge, gross margin would have increased by 230 basis points as compared with 2009. This increase reflected an increase of 150 basis points in the merchandise margin rate reflecting lower markdowns as the Company was less promotional during the year as compared with the prior year. Lower vendor allowances during the current year, reflecting the overall lower promotional activity, negatively affected gross margin by 10 basis points. The increase in the gross margin also reflected a decrease of 80 basis points in the occupancy and buyers salary expense rate due to improved leverage and expense reductions.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased by $106 million to $1,244 million in 2011, or by 9.3 percent, as compared with 2010. SG&A as a percentage of sales decreased to 22.1 percent as compared with 22.5 percent in 2010. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations in 2011, SG&A increased by $86 million. This increase primarily reflects higher variable expenses to support sales, such as store wages and banking expenses. Also during 2011, the Company increased its marketing and advertising spending by $25 million in order to support the Company’s strategic objective of differentiating its formats.  

SG&A expenses increased by $39 million to $1,138 million in 2010, or by 3.5 percent, as compared with 2009. SG&A as a percentage of sales decreased to 22.5 percent as compared with 22.6 percent in 2009, due to expense management and the increase in sales. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations in 2010, SG&A increased by $47 million. This increase primarily reflects higher incentive compensation costs totaling $45 million, partially offset by expense management efforts.  

Corporate Expense  

Corporate expense consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses as well as depreciation and amortization related to the Company’s corporate headquarters, centrally managed departments, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, and other items. Depreciation and amortization included in corporate expense was $11 million, $12 million, and $13 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  

Corporate expense increased by $5 million to $102 million in 2011 as compared with 2010. The increase represents primarily higher share-based compensation expense and miscellaneous professional fees.  

Corporate expense increased by $30 million to $97 million in 2010 as compared with 2009. Incentive compensation costs represented an increase of $29 million as a result of the Company’s outperformance as compared with plan. Additionally, 2009 included a $5 million charge related to the reorganization of its operations and corporate staff reductions.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization of $110 million increased by 3.8 percent in 2011 from $106 million in 2010. Foreign currency fluctuations increased depreciation and amortization expense by $2 million.   

20 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Depreciation and amortization of $106 million decreased by 5.4 percent in 2010 from $112 million in 2009. This decrease primarily reflects reduced depreciation and amortization resulting from store long-lived asset impairment charges recorded in 2009. Additionally, foreign currency fluctuations reduced depreciation and amortization expense by $1 million.  

Interest Expense, Net  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The overall reduction in net interest expense in 2011 as compared with 2010 primarily reflected increased income earned on higher cash and cash equivalent balances.  

The reduction of net interest expense of $1 million in 2010 as compared with 2009 primarily related to increased income earned on higher cash and cash equivalent balances, partially offset by an increase in interest expense due to higher fees associated with the revolving credit facility.  

The Company did not have any short-term borrowings for any of the periods presented.  

Other Income  

Other income was $4 million in both 2011 and 2010 and was $3 million in 2009. For 2011, other income primarily includes $2 million of lease termination gains related to the sales of leasehold interests, $1 million for insurance recoveries, as well as royalty income. For 2010, other income includes a $2 million gain on its money-market investment, as well as royalty income, and gains on lease terminations related to certain lease interests in Europe. Other income in 2009 primarily reflects $4 million related to gains from insurance recoveries, gains on the purchase and retirement of bonds, and royalty income, partially offset by foreign currency option contract premiums of $1 million.  

Income Taxes  

The effective tax rate for 2011 was 36.0 percent, as compared with 34.3 percent in 2010. The Company regularly assesses the adequacy of the provisions for income tax contingencies in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance on accounting for income taxes. As a result, the reserves for unrecognized tax benefits may be adjusted as a result of new facts and developments, such as changes to interpretations of relevant tax law, assessments from taxing authorities, settlements with taxing authorities, and lapses of statutes of limitation. The effective tax rate for 2011 includes reserve releases of $3 million due to audit settlements and lapses of statutes of limitations as well as other true-up adjustments. Excluding these items and the prior-year adjustments discussed below, the effective tax rate increased primarily due to the higher proportion of income earned in higher tax jurisdictions in 2011.  

The effective tax rate for 2010 was 34.3 percent, as compared with 36.0 percent in 2009. The effective tax rate decreased primarily due to a benefit of $7 million from a favorable tax settlement offset in part by $4 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter to correct a historical error in the calculation of income taxes on amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss pertaining to the Company’s Canadian pension plans. Additionally, the 2009 effective rate included Canadian provincial tax rate changes that resulted in a $4 million expense arising from a reduction in the value of the Company’s net deferred tax assets. Excluding these items, the effective rate increased as compared with the prior year reflecting a higher proportion of income earned in higher tax jurisdictions.   

21 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Segment Information  

The Company’s two reportable segments, Athletic Stores and Direct-to-Customers, are based on its method of internal reporting. The Company evaluates performance based on several factors, the primary financial measure of which is division results. Division profit reflects income from continuing operations before income taxes, corporate expense, non-operating income, and net interest expense.  

Athletic Stores  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 compared with 2010  

Athletic Stores sales of $5,110 million increased 10.7 percent in 2011, as compared with $4,617 million in 2010. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, sales from the Athletic Stores segment increased by 8.9 percent in 2011. Comparable-store sales also increased 8.9 percent as compared with the prior year. The majority of the increase represented increased footwear sales reflecting the continued success of key styles of technical, light-weight running and basketball footwear. Apparel sales continue to benefit from offerings that coordinate with key footwear styles. All formats within this segment experienced significant increases in sales as compared with the prior year, except for Lady Foot Locker. While Foot Locker Europe’s comparable-stores sales were positive for the fourth quarter and full-year of 2011, sales were negatively affected by the current economic conditions. Lady Foot Locker’s sales declined in 2011, principally due to operating 47 fewer stores. This was coupled with a decline in toning footwear sales, which negatively affected the results earlier in the year. Management is performing a strategic review of the women’s business and is developing various initiatives intended to improve future performance.  

Athletic Stores reported a division profit of $495 million in 2011 as compared with $329 million in 2010, an increase of $166 million as compared with the corresponding prior-year period. Foreign currency fluctuations positively affected division profit by approximately $8 million as compared with the corresponding prior-year period. The increase primarily reflects the strong U.S. performance, led by Foot Locker and Champs Sports, however all international locations also increased. Strong sales and improved gross margin contributed to an overall profit flow-through of 33.7 percent.  

2010 compared with 2009  

Athletic Stores sales of $4,617 million increased 3.8 percent in 2010, as compared with $4,448 million in 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, primarily related to the euro, sales from the Athletic Stores segment increased by 4.4 percent in 2010. Comparable-store sales for the Athletic Stores segment increased 5.7 percent as compared with the prior year. The Company’s U.S. operations sales increased 3.9 percent reflecting meaningful increases in all formats, except for Lady Foot Locker. Lady Foot Locker was negatively affected by the lower demand for certain styles, in particular toning. Excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, international sales increased 5.5 percent in 2010 as compared with 2009. Foot Locker Europe’s sales reflected strong increases in men’s footwear and apparel.  

Athletic Stores reported a division profit of $329 million in 2010 as compared with $114 million in 2009. The 2009 results included impairment charges totaling $32 million, which were recorded to write down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements, at the Company’s Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Footaction, and Champs Sports divisions for 787 stores. Additionally, in 2009 the Company recorded a $14 million inventory reserve on certain aged apparel. Excluding these charges, division profit increased by $169 million as compared with the corresponding prior-year period. This increase reflects division profit gains in both the Company’s domestic and international operations. Foreign currency fluctuations negatively affected division profit by approximately $4 million as compared with the corresponding prior-year period.   

22 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Direct-to-Customers  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 compared with 2010  

Direct-to-Customers sales increased 18.8 percent to $513 million in 2011, as compared with $432 million in 2010. Internet sales increased by 21.9 percent to $457 million, as compared with Internet sales of $375 million 2010. Internet sales primarily reflected the strong performance of the Eastbay website, coupled with improved sales from the store-banner websites. Catalog sales decreased by 1.8 percent to $56 million in 2011 from $57 million in 2010.  

The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $45 million in 2011, as compared with $30 million in 2010. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, was 8.8 percent in 2011 and 6.9 percent in 2010. During the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2010, impairment charges of $5 million and $10 million, respectively, were recorded to write down CCS intangible assets, specifically the non-amortizing tradename. The impairments were primarily the result of reduced revenue projections. Excluding the impairment charges in each of the periods, division profit increased by $10 million reflecting the strong sales performance, partially offset by higher variable costs.  

2010 compared with 2009  

Direct-to-Customers sales increased 6.4 percent to $432 million in 2010, as compared with $406 million in 2009. Effective with the first quarter of 2010, CCS Internet and catalog sales have been included in the computation of comparable-store sales. Internet sales increased by 9.0 percent to $375 million, as compared with 2009 reflecting a strong sales performance through the Company’s store banner websites, which benefited from improved functionality and more compelling product assortments. Catalog sales decreased by 8.1 percent to $57 million in 2010 from $62 million in 2009.  

The Direct-to-Customers business generated division profit of $30 million in 2010, as compared with $32 million in 2009. Division profit, as a percentage of sales, was 6.9 percent in 2010 and 7.9 percent in 2009. Included in the 2010 division profit is a $10 million impairment charge, which was recorded to write down CCS intangible assets. The impairment was primarily the result of reduced revenue projections. Included in 2009 division profit is a $4 million impairment charge, which was recorded to write off certain software development costs as a result of management’s decision to terminate the project. Excluding these charges, division profit increased by $4 million as compared with the prior year.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Liquidity  

The Company’s primary source of liquidity has been cash flow from operations, while the principal uses of cash have been to: fund inventory and other working capital requirements; finance capital expenditures related to store openings, store remodelings, Internet and mobile sites, information systems, and other support facilities; make retirement plan contributions, quarterly dividend payments, and interest payments; and fund other cash requirements to support the development of its short-term and long-term operating strategies. The Company generally finances real estate with operating leases. Management believes its cash, cash equivalents, future cash flow from operations, and the Company’s current revolving credit facility will be adequate to fund these requirements.  

As of January 28, 2012, the Company had $498 million of cash and cash equivalents held in foreign jurisdictions. Because we plan to permanently reinvest our foreign earnings, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Depending on the source, amount, and timing of a repatriation, some tax may be payable. The Company believes that its cash invested domestically, future domestic cash flows, and its current revolving credit agreement are sufficient to satisfy domestic requirements.   

23 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company may also from time to time repurchase its common stock or seek to retire or purchase outstanding debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. On February 14, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a new 3-year, $400 million share repurchase program extending through January 2015, replacing the previous $250 million program.  

Any material adverse change in customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, or customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, the Company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a significant portion of its merchandise purchases and risks associated with global product sourcing, economic conditions worldwide, the effects of currency fluctuations, as well as other factors listed under the heading “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” could affect the ability of the Company to continue to fund its needs from business operations.  

Maintaining access to merchandise that the Company considers appropriate for its business may be subject to the policies and practices of its key vendors. Therefore, the Company believes that it is critical to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with its key vendors. In both 2011 and 2010, the Company purchased approximately 82 percent of its merchandise from its top five vendors and expects to continue to obtain a significant percentage of its athletic product from these vendors in future periods. Approximately 61 percent in 2011 and 63 percent in 2010 was purchased from one vendor — Nike, Inc.  

The Company’s 2012 planned capital expenditures and lease acquisition costs are approximately $160 million. Planned capital expenditures are $147 million and planned lease acquisition costs related to the Company’s operations in Europe are $13 million. The Company’s planned capital expenditures include $110 million related to modernizations of existing stores and the planned opening of 82 new stores, as well as $37 million for the development of information systems and infrastructure. The Company has the ability to revise and reschedule much of the anticipated capital expenditure program, should the Company’s financial position require it.  

Free Cash Flow (non-GAAP measure)  

In addition to net cash provided by operating activities, the Company uses free cash flow as a useful measure of performance and as an indication of the strength of the Company and its ability to generate cash. The Company defines free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures (which is classified as an investing activity). The Company believes the presentation of free cash flow is relevant and useful for investors because it allows investors to evaluate the cash generated from the Company’s underlying operations in a manner similar to the method used by management. Free cash flow is not defined under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, it should not be considered a substitute for income or cash flow data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. It should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is available for discretionary expenditures.  

The following table presents a reconciliation of the Company’s net cash flow provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to free cash flow.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

24 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Operating Activities  

Operating activities from continuing operations provided cash of $497 million in 2011 as compared with $326 million in 2010. These amounts reflect income from continuing operations adjusted for non-cash items and working capital changes. Non-cash impairment and other charges were $5 million and $10 million for the years ending January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011, respectively, reflecting the CCS tradename impairment charges. During 2011, the Company contributed $28 million to its U.S. and Canadian qualified pension plans as compared with $32 million contributed in 2010. The change in merchandise inventory, net of the change in accounts payable, as compared with the prior-year period, reflects the continued improvement in flowing merchandise. The change in income tax receivables and payables primarily reflects the receipt of a $46 million IRS refund resulting from a loss carryback.  

Operating activities from continuing operations provided cash of $326 million in 2010 as compared with $346 million in 2009. Non-cash impairment and other charges were $10 million and $36 million for the years ending January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010, respectively. The 2009 charges totaled $36 million, comprised of $32 million to write-down long-lived assets such as store fixtures and leasehold improvements at the Company’s Lady Foot Locker, Kids Foot Locker, Footaction, and Champs Sports divisions and $4 million to write off software development costs. During 2010, the Company contributed $32 million to its U.S. and Canadian qualified pension plans as compared with $100 million contributed in 2009. The change in merchandise inventory, net of the change in accounts payable, as compared with the prior-year period, represents inventory required to support the favorable sales trend. During 2010, the Company paid $24 million to settle the liability associated with the terminated European net investment hedge, whereas in the prior-year period the Company terminated its interest rate swaps and received $19 million.  

Investing Activities  

Net cash used in investing activities of the Company’s continuing operations was $149 million in 2011 as compared with $87 million used in investing activities in 2010. Capital expenditures were $152 million, primarily related to the remodeling of 182 stores, the build-out of 70 new stores, and various corporate technology upgrades and e-commerce website enhancements, representing an increase of $55 million as compared with the prior year.  

Net cash used in investing activities of the Company’s continuing operations was $87 million in 2010 as compared with $72 million used in investing activities in 2009. During 2010, the Company received $9 million from the Reserve International Liquidity Fund representing further redemptions. Capital expenditures were $97 million primarily related to store remodeling and to the development of information systems and infrastructure, representing an increase of $8 million as compared with the prior year.  

Financing Activities  

Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations was $178 million in 2011 as compared with $127 million in 2010. During 2011, the Company repurchased 4,904,100 shares of its common stock under its common share repurchase program for $104 million. Additionally, the Company declared and paid dividends totaling $101 million and $93 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, representing a quarterly rate of $0.165 and $0.15 per share in 2011 and 2010, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $22 million and $13 million, respectively. During 2011, in connection with stock option exercises, the Company recorded excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $5 million as a financing activity.   

25 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Net cash used in financing activities of continuing operations was $127 million in 2010 as compared with $94 million in 2009. During 2010, the Company repurchased 3,215,000 shares of its common stock for $50 million. Additionally, the Company declared and paid dividends totaling $93 million and $94 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing a quarterly rate of $0.15 per share in both 2010 and 2009. During 2010 and 2009, the Company received proceeds from the issuance of common stock and treasury stock in connection with the employee stock programs of $13 million and $3 million, respectively. During 2010, in connection with stock option exercises, the Company recorded excess tax benefits related to share-based compensation of $3 million as a financing activity.  

Capital Structure  

On January 27, 2012, the Company entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the “2011 Restated Credit Agreement) with its banks, replacing the 2009 Credit Agreement. The 2011 Restated Credit Agreement provides for a $200 million asset based revolving credit facility maturing on January 27, 2017. In addition, during the term of the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement, the Company may make up to four requests for additional credit commitments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $200 million. Interest is based on the LIBOR rate in effect at the time of the borrowing plus a 1.25 to 1.50 percent margin depending on certain provisions as defined in the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement.  

The 2011 Restated Credit Agreement provides for a security interest in certain of the Company’s domestic assets, including certain inventory assets, but excluding intellectual property. The Company is not required to comply with any financial covenants as long as there are no outstanding borrowings. With regard to the payment of dividends and share repurchases, there are no restrictions if the Company is not borrowing and the payments are funded through cash on hand. If the Company is borrowing, Availability as of the end of each fiscal month during the subsequent projected six fiscal months following the payment must be at least 20 percent of the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and the Borrowing Base (as defined in the 2011 Restated Credit Agreement). The Company’s management does not currently expect to borrow under the facility in 2012, other than amounts used to support standby letters of credit.  

Credit Rating  

As of March 26, 2012, the Company’s corporate credit ratings from Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service are BB and Ba3, respectively. In addition, Moody’s Investors Service has rated the Company’s senior unsecured notes B1.  

Debt Capitalization and Equity (non-GAAP Measure)  

For purposes of calculating debt to total capitalization, the Company includes the present value of operating lease commitments in total net debt. Total net debt including the present value of operating leases is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. The present value of operating leases is discounted using various interest rates ranging from 4.25 percent to 14.5 percent, which represent the Company’s incremental borrowing rate at inception of the lease. Operating leases are the primary financing vehicle used to fund store expansion and, therefore, we believe that the inclusion of the present value of operating leases in total debt is useful to our investors, credit constituencies, and rating agencies.   

26 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The following table sets forth the components of the Company’s capitalization, both with and without the present value of operating leases:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company increased cash and cash equivalents by $155 million during 2011, the result of strong cash flow generation from operating activities. The change in total debt including the present value of the operating leases, as compared with the prior-year period, primarily reflects the effect of lease renewals, offset, in part, by store closures and the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. Including the present value of operating leases, the Company’s net debt capitalization percent decreased 300 basis points in 2011.  

Contractual Obligations and Commitments  

The following tables represent the scheduled maturities of the Company’s contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments at January 28, 2012:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) The amounts presented above represent the contractual maturities of the Company’s long-term debt, including interest; however, it excludes the unamortized gain of the interest rate swap of $15 million. Additional information is included in the Long-Term Debt note under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”    

  (2) The amounts presented represent the future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases. In addition to minimum rent, certain of the Company’s leases require the payment of additional costs for insurance, maintenance, and other costs. These costs have historically represented approximately 25 to 30 percent of the minimum rent amount. These additional amounts are not included in the table of contractual commitments as the timing and/or amounts of such payments are unknown.    

  (3) The Company’s other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 28, 2012 primarily comprise pension and postretirement benefits, deferred rent liability, income taxes, workers’ compensation and general liability reserves, and various other accruals. Other than this liability, other amounts (including the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits of $65 million) have been excluded from the above table as the timing and/or amount of any cash payment is uncertain. The timing of the remaining amounts that are known has not been included as they are minimal and not useful to the presentation. Additional information is included in the Other Liabilities, Financial Instruments and Risk Management, and Retirement Plans and Other Benefits notes under “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”    

  (4) Represents the unused domestic lines of credit pursuant to the Company’s $200 million revolving credit agreement. The Company’s management currently does not expect to borrow under the facility in 2012, other than amounts used to support standby letters of credit.     

27 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

  (5) Represents open purchase orders, as well as other commitments for merchandise purchases, at January 28, 2012. The Company is obligated under the terms of purchase orders; however, the Company is generally able to renegotiate the timing and quantity of these orders with certain vendors in response to shifts in consumer preferences.    

  (6) Represents payments required by non-merchandise purchase agreements.    

The Company does not have any off-balance sheet financing, other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business as disclosed above, or unconsolidated special purpose entities. The Company does not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including variable interest entities. The Company’s policy prohibits the use of derivatives for which there is no underlying exposure.  

In connection with the sale of various businesses and assets, the Company may be obligated for certain lease commitments transferred to third parties and pursuant to certain normal representations, warranties, or indemnifications entered into with the purchasers of such businesses or assets. Although the maximum potential amounts for such obligations cannot be readily determined, management believes that the resolution of such contingencies will not significantly affect the Company’s consolidated financial position, liquidity, or results of operations. The Company is also operating certain stores for which lease agreements are in the process of being negotiated with landlords. Although there is no contractual commitment to make these payments, it is likely that leases will be executed.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

Management’s responsibility for integrity and objectivity in the preparation and presentation of the Company’s financial statements requires diligent application of appropriate accounting policies. Generally, the Company’s accounting policies and methods are those specifically required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Included in the Summary of Significant Accounting Policies note in “Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” is a summary of the Company’s most significant accounting policies. In some cases, management is required to calculate amounts based on estimates for matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company believes the following to be the most critical of those accounting policies that necessitate subjective judgments.  

Merchandise Inventories  

Merchandise inventories for the Company’s Athletic Stores are valued at the lower of cost or market using the retail inventory method (“RIM”). The RIM is commonly used by retail companies to value inventories at cost and calculate gross margins due to its practicality. Under the retail method, cost is determined by applying a cost-to-retail percentage across groupings of similar items, known as departments. The cost-to-retail percentage is applied to ending inventory at its current owned retail valuation to determine the cost of ending inventory on a department basis. The RIM is a system of averages that requires management’s estimates and assumptions regarding markups, markdowns and shrink, among others, and as such, could result in distortions of inventory amounts.  

Significant judgment is required for these estimates and assumptions, as well as to differentiate between promotional and other markdowns that may be required to correctly reflect merchandise inventories at the lower of cost or market. The Company provides reserves based on current selling prices when the inventory has not been marked down to market. The failure to take permanent markdowns on a timely basis may result in an overstatement of cost under the retail inventory method. The decision to take permanent markdowns includes many factors, including the current environment, inventory levels, and the age of the item. Management believes this method and its related assumptions, which have been consistently applied, to be reasonable.  

Vendor Reimbursements  

In the normal course of business, the Company receives allowances from its vendors for markdowns taken. Vendor allowances are recognized as a reduction in cost of sales in the period in which the markdowns are taken. Vendor allowances contributed 30 basis points to the 2011 gross margin rate. The Company also has volume-related agreements with certain vendors, under which it receives rebates based on fixed percentages of cost purchases. These volume-related rebates are recorded in cost of sales when the product is sold and were not significant to the 2011 gross margin rate.   

28 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company receives support from some of its vendors in the form of reimbursements for cooperative advertising and catalog costs for the launch and promotion of certain products. The reimbursements are agreed upon with vendors for specific advertising campaigns and catalogs. Cooperative income, to the extent that it reimburses specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to date, is recorded in SG&A in the same period as the associated expenses are incurred. Cooperative reimbursements amounted to approximately 18 percent and 11 percent of total advertising and catalog costs, respectively, in 2011. Reimbursements received that are in excess of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to date are recognized as a reduction to the cost of merchandise and are reflected in cost of sales as the merchandise is sold and were not significant in 2011.  

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets, Goodwill and Other Intangibles  

The Company recognizes an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, a triggering event, comprises measurable operating performance criteria at the division level as well as qualitative measures. If an analysis is necessitated by the occurrence of a triggering event, the Company uses assumptions, which are predominately identified from the Company’s strategic long-range plans, in determining the impairment amount. In the calculation of the fair value of long-lived assets, the Company compares the carrying amount of the asset with the estimated future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows, the Company measures the amount of the impairment by comparing the carrying amount of the asset with its estimated fair value. The estimation of fair value is measured by discounting expected future cash flows at the Company’s weighted-average cost of capital. Management believes its policy is reasonable and is consistently applied. Future expected cash flows are based upon estimates that, if not achieved, may result in significantly different results.  

The Company performs an impairment review of its goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives if impairment indicators arise and, at a minimum, annually. We consider many factors in evaluating whether the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable, including declines in stock price and market capitalization in relation to the book value of the Company and macroeconomic conditions affecting retail. The Company has chosen to perform this review at the beginning of each fiscal year, and it is done in a two-step approach. The initial step requires that the carrying value of each reporting unit be compared with its estimated fair value. The second step — to evaluate goodwill of a reporting unit for impairment — is only required if the carrying value of that reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. The Company used a combination of a discounted cash flow approach and market-based approach to determine the fair value of a reporting unit. The determination of discounted cash flows of the reporting units and assets and liabilities within the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, terminal growth rates, earnings before depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures forecasts. The market approach requires judgment and uses one or more methods to compare the reporting unit with similar businesses, business ownership interests or securities that have been sold. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates.  

The Company evaluated the merits of each significant assumption, both individually and in the aggregate, used to determine the fair value of the reporting units, as well as the fair values of the corresponding assets and liabilities within the reporting units, and concluded they are reasonable and are consistent with prior valuations.  

Owned trademarks and tradenames that have been determined to have indefinite lives are not subject to amortization but are reviewed at least annually for potential impairment. The fair values of purchased intangible assets are estimated and compared to their carrying values. We estimate the fair value of these intangible assets based on an income approach using the relief-from-royalty method. This methodology assumes that, in lieu of ownership, a third party would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of these types of assets. This approach is dependent on a number of factors, including estimates of future growth and trends, royalty rates in the category of intellectual property, discount rates, and other variables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. We recognize an impairment loss when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value.   

29 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

The Company’s review of goodwill did not result in any impairment charges for the years ended January 28, 2012 and January 29, 2011 as the fair value of each of the reporting units substantially exceeds its carrying value.  

The Company recorded impairment charges of $5 million and $10 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to its CCS tradename, primarily as a result of reduced revenue projections for this business.  

Share-Based Compensation  

The Company estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Company estimates the expected term of options granted using its historical exercise and post-vesting employment termination patterns, which the Company believes are representative of future behavior. Changing the expected term by one year changes the fair value by 7 to 9 percent depending if the change was an increase or decrease to the expected term. The Company estimates the expected volatility of its common stock at the grant date using a weighted-average of the Company’s historical volatility and implied volatility from traded options on the Company’s common stock. A 50 basis point change in volatility would have a 1 percent change to the fair value. The risk-free interest rate assumption is determined using the Federal Reserve nominal rates for U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds with maturities similar to those of the expected term of the award being valued. The expected dividend yield is derived from the Company’s historical experience. A 50 basis point change to the dividend yield would change the fair value by approximately 4 percent. The Company records stock-based compensation expense only for those awards expected to vest using an estimated forfeiture rate based on its historical pre-vesting forfeiture data, which it believes are representative of future behavior, and periodically will revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. The Black-Scholes option pricing valuation model requires the use of subjective assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value of the options. The Company may elect to use different assumptions under the Black-Scholes option pricing model in the future if there is a difference between the assumptions used and the actual factors that become known over time.  

Pension and Postretirement Liabilities  

The Company determines its obligations for pension and postretirement liabilities based upon assumptions related to discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on invested plan assets, salary increases, age, and mortality, among others. Management reviews all assumptions annually with its independent actuaries, taking into consideration existing and future economic conditions and the Company’s intentions with regard to the plans.  

Long-Term Rate of Return Assumption — The expected rate of return on plan assets is the long-term rate of return expected to be earned on the plans’ assets and is recognized as a component of pension expense. The rate is based on the plans’ weighted-average target asset allocation, as well as historical and future expected performance of those assets. The target asset allocation is selected to obtain an investment return that is sufficient to cover the expected benefit payments and to reduce future contributions by the Company. The expected rate of return on plan assets is reviewed annually and revised, as necessary, to reflect changes in the financial markets and our investment strategy. The weighted-average long-term rate of return used to determine 2011 pension expense was 6.59 percent. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average expected long-term rate of return would have increased 2011 pension expense by approximately $3 million. The actual return on plan assets in a given year typically differs from the expected long-term rate of return, and the resulting gain or loss is deferred and amortized into expense over the average life expectancy of its inactive participants.   

30 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Discount Rate — An assumed discount rate is used to measure the present value of future cash flow obligations of the plans and the interest cost component of pension expense and postretirement income. The cash flows are then discounted to their present value and an overall discount rate is determined. In 2011, the Company changed how the discount rate was selected to measure the present value of U.S. benefit obligations from the Citibank Pension Discount curve to Towers Watson’s Bond:Link model. The current discount rate is determined by reference to the Bond:Link interest rate model based upon a portfolio of highly rated U.S. corporate bonds with individual bonds that are theoretically purchased to settle the plan’s anticipated cash outflows. The discount rate selected to measure the present value of the Company’s Canadian benefit obligations was developed by using the plan’s bond portfolio indices, which match the benefit obligations.  

The fluctuations in stock and bond markets could cause actual investment results to be significantly different from those assumed, and therefore, significantly impact the valuation of the assets in our pension trust. The weighted-average discount rates used to determine the 2011 benefit obligations related to the Company’s pension and postretirement plans were 4.16 percent and 4.00 percent, respectively. A decrease of 50 basis points in the weighted-average discount rate would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation of the pension plans at January 28, 2012 by approximately $32 million, and would have increased the accumulated benefit obligation on the postretirement plan by approximately $1 million. Such a decrease would not have significantly changed 2011 pension expense or postretirement income.  

The Company maintains two postretirement medical plans, one covering executive officers and certain key employees of the Company, (“SERP Medical Plan”), and the other covering all other associates. With respect to the SERP Medical Plan, a one percent change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would change this plan’s accumulated benefit obligation by approximately $2 million. With respect to the postretirement medical plan covering all other associates, there is limited risk to the Company for increases in health care costs since, beginning in 2001, new retirees have assumed the full expected costs and then-existing retirees have assumed all increases in such costs.  

The Company expects to record postretirement income of approximately $4 million and pension expense of approximately $17 million in 2012.  

Income Taxes  

In accordance with GAAP, deferred tax assets are recognized for tax credit and net operating loss carryforwards, reduced by a valuation allowance, which is established when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Management is required to estimate taxable income for future years by taxing jurisdiction and to use its judgment to determine whether or not to record a valuation allowance for part or all of a deferred tax asset. Estimates of taxable income are based upon the Company’s strategic long-range plans. A one percent change in the Company’s overall statutory tax rate for 2011 would have resulted in a $7 million change in the carrying value of the net deferred tax asset and a corresponding charge or credit to income tax expense depending on whether the tax rate change was a decrease or an increase.  

The Company has operations in multiple taxing jurisdictions and is subject to audit in these jurisdictions. Tax audits by their nature are often complex and can require several years to resolve. Accruals of tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgments with respect to the ultimate outcome of tax audits. Actual results could vary from these estimates.  

The Company expects its 2012 effective tax rate to approximate 37 percent. The actual rate will vary depending primarily on the percentage of the Company’s income earned in the United States as compared with its international operations.   

31 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment, that is effective in 2012. The revised standard is intended to reduce cost and complexity of the annual goodwill impairment test by providing entities an option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. We do not believe that the adoption of this ASU will have a significant effect on our results of operations or financial position.  

Other recently issued accounting pronouncements did not, or are not believed by management to, have a material effect on the Company’s present or future consolidated financial statements.  

Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Other than statements of historical facts, all statements which address activities, events, or developments that the Company anticipates will or may occur in the future, including, but not limited to, such things as future capital expenditures, expansion, strategic plans, financial objectives, dividend payments, stock repurchases, growth of the Company’s business and operations, including future cash flows, revenues, and earnings, and other such matters, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based on many assumptions and factors which are detailed in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the effects of currency fluctuations, customer demand, fashion trends, competitive market forces, uncertainties related to the effect of competitive products and pricing, customer acceptance of the Company’s merchandise mix and retail locations, the Company’s reliance on a few key vendors for a majority of its merchandise purchases (including a significant portion from one key vendor), pandemics and similar major health concerns, unseasonable weather, further deterioration of global financial markets, economic conditions worldwide, further deterioration of business and economic conditions, any changes in business, political and economic conditions due to the threat of future terrorist activities in the United States or in other parts of the world and related U.S. military action overseas, the ability of the Company to execute its business and strategic plans effectively with regard to each of its business units, and risks associated with global product sourcing, including political instability, changes in import regulations, and disruptions to transportation services and distribution.  

For additional discussion on risks and uncertainties that may affect forward-looking statements, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A. Any changes in such assumptions or factors could produce significantly different results. The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.  

  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk